 13 6 08 10:32 Page 28 Operating and financial review Case Study 4: Case Study 3: People Plan IT Systems What is it?
Speedys People Plan reflects our strategic approach to A brand new, group wide IT system expected to have training and developing our people, providing careers not just 2,000 users on the system within the next 12 months.
jobs and ensuring that the skills base in Speedy meets and Why did we buy it?
Improved customer service can be delivered with a single The People Plan has two main objectives: view of a customer across the entire Speedy group.
a to provide a clear and simple framework see opposite to enable people in every role in our business to enhance Assets can be better controlled and monitored with the their skills and develop their careers at Speedy: and aim of enhancing product availability, improving utilisation b to develop a talent pool of outstanding managers to and strengthening the supply chain.
enable us to drive the business forward for years to come.
Depot operation schedules will be deployed to maximise efficiency and assist in smooth processing of sales Why are we doing it?
At Speedy we are passionate about making our business the Enhancements in management information to aid depot best Company to work for.
The commitment and can do managers, area teams and sales to improve our attitude of our people has been a key to our success so far performance.
and is recognised by our customers.
But we must continually strive to improve.
As clear market leader, we are absolutely Current Status committed to growing, developing and motivating our people All 357 Tool Hire depots are now live on the system.
This to drive Speedy even further.
includes the ex-Hewden depots only acquired in August.
Current Status The roll-out of the system is continuing into Speedy Ireland a We have designed and are in the process of rolling out and the Equipment Division in the new year.
through the Speedy Academy structured training and development programmes for 6 key roles in the business depot managers, hire controllers, drivers, field sales, test 12.
Our values and run technicians and fitters.
These programmes already cover over 4,500 employees, around 85% of our At Speedy we continually strive to apply the following core values to current workforce.
Additional programmes for all other everything we do: roles are in development.
b Early success relating to the recruitment, training and Integrity: To be honest in our dealings and deliver value to our development of drivers is very encouraging as driver stakeholders through high ethical standards.
retention levels have already improved by more than 10 percentage points within the last 12 months.
Safety: To be committed to promoting a safe and healthy culture for c We have personal development plans in place for all our our customers and employees.
senior managers and in the last 12 months an additional Social responsibility: To be mindful of the communities in which 40 employees have participated in our Senior Leadership we operate and our impact on the environment.
Programme designed and run in conjunction with Ashridge Business School.
Reputation: To be committed to maintaining and building our More details of our People Plan appear in our third Corporate reputation and brand.
Responsibility Report to be published in July 2008.
People: We aim to employ the best, support the development of our staff and reward success.
Commitment: We work hard to maintain our can do culture and 14.
Governance and risk management commitment to our customers.
In the year ended 31 March 2008, the Company complied with the provisions set out in the Combined Code and maintained high 13.
Doing it right standards of corporate governance.
At the same time, we continued At Speedy Hire, we are committed to high levels of corporate to monitor and evaluate all areas of financial and operational risk.
In responsibility and to the long-term sustainability of our business.
addition, we employ Marsh as risk advisers to independently As accredited members of Business in the Community and of the evaluate our risk management processes.
For more information on FTSE4Good Index, we seek to engage our stakeholder groups in corporate governance and risk management at Speedy, please refer order to deliver improvements in key areas of our corporate to page 37 of this report.
Our people Our people Our communities Our customers Risk management Speedys rapid organic and acquisitive growth has led to a significant increase in our staff.
At 31 March 2008 we had over 5,000 Our suppliers Governance employees compared to 3,800 in the previous year.
The acquisition Health & Safety of Hewden Tools added more than 1,200 employees.
For the third consecutive year Speedy is publishing a separate Corporate Responsibility report.
For more detailed information about At Speedy we aim to be an employer of choice in our sector.
We Speedys policies and achievements, please go to achieve this by maintaining a knowledgeable, stable and engaged www.
workforce able to service our customers effectively while reducing recruitment and retention costs for the Group.
28 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5 15110  13 6 08 10:32 Page 29 Our people policy is based on the following simple procedures: Charitable giving during the year amounted to 68,000.
We are active members of the Lighthouse Club, CRASH and the Childrens Employ the best Devolve responsibility and authority Adventure Farm Trust.
Reward for success Allow people to get on with their job These policies are highlighted in the key initiatives area of the Speedy In 2007 08 we completed two employee satisfaction surveys in Hire Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 08. order to measure overall engagement levels and to pinpoint areas where we need to position our people agenda.
Focus for the future the launch of our People Plan, our strategy that aims to promote A great deal has been achieved over the year.
Our national accounts long-term employee development at all levels of the Group.
and relationships with our largest customers have moved from strength to strength.
At the same time we have positioned ourselves For more information about employee policies and practices at well to benefit from opportunities in our traditional markets as well Speedy, please refer to the Speedy Hire Corporate Responsibility those that are newer to the hire business.
Our key focus is to extract Report 2007 08. and maximise the full value of the work we have done.
Health & Safety By continuing to broaden our customer base in the industrial markets Health & Safety awareness is a priority at every level in the Group and strengthening our relationships with our largest national accounts, and is an important driver of our business.
At Speedy, we are at the we will deliver more growth in the year ahead.
We will seek to offer our forefront of developments in this area and our work has been customers more service-based solutions, whilst increasing our recognised through numerous awards over the years.
strategic alignment to their business.
In 2007, we received a National Business Award for our successful By achieving new levels of customer intimacy and operational flexibility, Safety from the Ground Up initiative that aims to introduce key we will change our operations to develop alongside them and their Health & Safety messages at site level.
Internally, we are also market spaces.
We will identify new areas of specialisation that we will committed to operating a safe and healthy workplace by giving our develop into future platforms for growth.
employees the right information, training and protection.
The continued roll-out of our Group-wide business information For more information about health and safety practices at Speedy, management system will allow us to achieve better visibility around the please refer to the Speedy Hire Corporate Responsibility Report system, aligning us more effectively with the market to maximize 2007 08. opportunities.
After integrating this system throughout our Tool Hire depot network in 2007 08, we are set to have it fully implemented throughout the Group in the first half of 2009.
Environment Like all good businesses, we are increasingly aware of our We also intend to expand the scope of our successful Safety from the environmental responsibility and are committed to implementing a longGround Up campaign in the year ahead to continue providing real term strategy that will reduce the day-to-day impact of our operations solutions to some of the most pressing challenges our customers on the environment.
We continued to comply with the requirements of face.
We will continue to invest in the development of our internal the Environmental Protection Act 1990 and all other domestic infrastructure, our information systems and in the development and legislation pertaining to the protection of human and natural resources.
In 2007 08 we completed the first stage of a three-year strategy to We monitor market activity closely and will be mindful of acquisition reduce the Groups carbon footprint against measurable targets.
New opportunities that fit our strategic objectives, whether they are of systems and processes were put in place so we can measure our externally facing businesses or of contractors own fleets.
carbon emissions, energy consumption and use of natural resources.
During the year we also prepared the launch of our customer-driven Looking at the year ahead, we are confident in our ability to maximise environmental awareness campaign Greener from the Ground Up, the opportunities that lie ahead and to deliver further growth.
aimed at helping our customers meet their own environmental targets.
For more information about this strategy and other areas in Steve Corcoran Mike McGrath corporate responsibility please refer to the Speedy Hire Corporate Chief Executive Commercial Director Responsibility Report 2007 8.
Justin Read Claudio Veritiero Group Finance Director Chief Operating Officer 18.
Our communities In 2007 08, as part of our ongoing commitment to corporate Patrick Rawnsley responsibility, we continued to implement policies that added value Company Secretary both to the communities in which we operate and to those beyond our market.
One of our biggest steps in the year was setting up a Charities Committee to provide a structured and transparent policy for all of Speedys community activities.
An online application form set up by the Committee helps direct the Groups efforts in volunteering time, free hire and cash donations.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 29 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5
