Other information Shareholder information Financial calendar 2009 24 February 2008 Preliminary results and final dividend announcement 4 March Final dividend ex-dividend date 6 March Final dividend record date 16 April Last date for receipt of applications to participate in Dividend Reinvestment Plan for 2008 final dividend 7 May Annual general meeting and interim management statement 8 May Final dividend payment date Ordinary shareholders 18 May Final dividend payment date ADR holders 28 June Half-year end August 2009 Half-year results and interim dividend announcement August Interim dividend ex-dividend date August Interim dividend record date October Interim dividend payment date Ordinary shareholders October Interim dividend payment date ADR holders November Interim management statement 31 December Financial year end February 2010 2009 Preliminary results and final dividend announcement Ordinary shares and American depositary receipts Dividend reinvestment plan The Companys Ordinary Shares are traded on the The Company has introduced a Dividend Reinvestment London Stock Exchange ticker: SPT.
The Company Plan DRIP provided by Equiniti Financial Services operates a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR Limited.
The DRIP allows eligible shareholders to use programme with each ADR representing four Ordinary their cash dividend to buy additional shares in the Shares.
The ADRs trade on the US over-the-counter Company, so increasing their shareholding.
Additional market symbol: SPMYY & CUSIP: 84856M209.
The information, including details of how to participate, Bank of New York Mellon is the authorised depositary can be obtained from the Companys website at bank for the Companys ADR programme.
com and from Equiniti on 0871 384 2623. quoted on the Pink Sheets electronic quotation service which can be found at www.
Electronic communications At its 2008 AGM the Company passed a resolution Annual General Meeting allowing it to communicate with shareholders by means The Companys 2009 Annual General Meeting 2009 of the Companys website and an invitation to sign up for AGM will be held at 10.30am on Thursday 7 May 2009 this method of communication will be sent to at the offices of the Companys PR advisers, Financial shareholders with the 2009 AGM documentation.
Dynamics, Holborn Gate, 26 Southampton Buildings, Electronic communications provide significant benefits London WC2A 1PB, United Kingdom.
for shareholders and the Company in terms of timeliness of information, reduced environmental impact and cost Dividends and the Board would encourage investors to participate Shareholders are able to choose how they receive their in the programme.
dividends: Companys registrar direct to their bank account: Enquiries concerning shareholdings, change of address reinvested in Ordinary Shares: or other particulars should be directed in the first paid by cheque: or instance to Equiniti, on 0871 384 2126.
They also paid in foreign currencies.
provide a range of online shareholder information services at www.
co. uk, where shareholders The quickest and most efficient way to receive your can check their holdings and find practical help on dividends is to have them paid direct to your bank transferring shares or updating their details.
It saves waiting for funds to clear and reduces the paper and postage we use.
To change how you receive your dividends either log on to www.
co. uk or contact the Companys registrar, Equiniti.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2008 115 Other information Shareholder information continued Share dealing services Unsolicited mail Equiniti Shareview Dealing is a service that provides a The Company is obliged by law to make its share register simple and convenient way of buying and selling the publicly available, subject to a proper purpose test, Companys Ordinary Shares.
For telephone services call should a request be received.
As a consequence, some 08456 037 037 between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday shareholders may receive unsolicited mail.
To limit the to Friday and for Internet services visit www.
amount of unsolicited mail received, please contact: co. uk dealing.
A postal share dealing service for buying The Mailing Preference Service MPS, DMA House, 70 and selling Ordinary Shares is also available and a Margaret Street, London W1W 8SS.
Alternatively, register dealing form can be obtained by calling 0871 384 2248. online at www.
uk or call the MPS Registration line on 0845 703 4599.
The Mailing Individual savings accounts Preference Service is an independent organisation which Information about investing in the Companys Ordinary offers a free service to the public within the UK.
Shares through an Individual Savings Account ISA Registering with them will help stop most unsolicited may be obtained from Equiniti on 0871 384 2244 or consumer advertising material.
ISAs are also offered by other organisations.
Companys website The directors are responsible for the maintenance and Shareholder security integrity of the Companys website.
Financial information Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited published on the website is based on legislation in the advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of UK governing the preparation and dissemination of free reports about the Company.
Details of any share financial statements that may be different from dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be comparable legislation in other jurisdictions.
included in the Companys mailings or on our website.
More detailed information can be found at www.
Shareholder analysis At 24 February 2009, the number of registered shareholders was 4,571 and the number of Ordinary Shares in issue was 671.8 million.
