40 continued DiRecToRs ReMuNeRATioN RepoRT Share awards may normally only vest if the executive director remains Kesa Electrical plc in employment with the Group.
If a participant leaves employment Debenhams plc before the vesting date, the share awards will normally lapse.
N Brown Group plc However, if the reason for leaving is injury, disability, ill-health, the Galiform plc sale of the business or company in which the executive director is employed, or any other reason, at the Committees discretion, a Carpetright plc participants awards will not lapse and will vest on the original Halfords Group plc vesting date to the extent the performance conditions have been met.
W H Smith plc The number of shares which are released or capable of exercise will JJB Sports plc be pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the performance period the participant was actually employed unless the Committee determines HMV Group plc otherwise.
In the event of a participants death, a share award may be The John David Group plc released to or exercised by their personal representatives.
Blacks Leisure Group plc Umbro plc until replaced by Mothercare plc In the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement other than a scheme to create a new holding company for the Company having Mothercare plc has replaced Umbro plc in the comparator group substantially the same shareholders as the Company or voluntary winding-up of the Company, share awards will vest following such following its acquisition by Nike and subsequent delisting.
an event to the extent the performance conditions have been met but The Committee will keep the comparator group under review and will, on a time pro-rated basis.
Share awards may also by agreement, be if and when it considers appropriate, include additional companies to exchanged for equivalent share awards or options over shares in the replace any of the existing comparator group that are no longer acquiring company.
The Committee has determined that, upon the vesting of any award, a TSR was calculated for the first grants made in the 42 days participant will receive additional shares representing the gross value following Admission using average market value of shares in each of dividends as if they had been paid on those shares and reinvested company in the comparator group over the 20 dealing days during the performance period.
For future grants TSR will be calculated using the average value of shares of companies in the The Company reviews awards under the Performance Share Plan in comparator group on the last day of the financial year.
terms of their effect on dilution limits, and seeks to comply with the dilution limits recommended by the Association of British Insurers for The percentage of the shares comprised in the TSR tranche that vest such plans.
At the end of the Year the Company was within those limits.
will be determined by reference to the Companys TSR ranking within the comparator group at the end of the performance period as follows: The Company is in the process of establishing a discretionary trust to acquire and hold, or to enter into agreements to procure the delivery of shares required to satisfy share awards granted under the Percentage of shares in TSR Ranking Performance Share Plan.
TSR tranche that vest Upper quartile 100 The ipo Bonus Median 25 In recognition of their important contribution to the development of Below median 0 the Company over many years, it was agreed prior to Admission that each of Dave Forsey and Bob Mellors should receive a bonus of 5.0 million, payable in April 2007, subject to continued employment at the payment date.
The Committee subsequently agreed with the Shares comprised in the TSR tranche will vest on a straight-line basis recipients before the bonus was payable that 2.5 million should be for performance between median and upper quartile.
paid in April 2007, and that the balance of 2.5 million be paid in April 2008.
The Committee may amend the performance conditions if an event occurs that causes it reasonably to consider that the original performance conditions are no longer, without alteration, a fair pension measure of performance, provided that the amended conditions are at Executive directors are entitled to participate in a stakeholder pension least as challenging as the original performance conditions.
Any such scheme under which the Company makes no contribution.
amendment will be disclosed in the directors remuneration report following the amendment.
share ownership policy During the Year the Committee reviewed the performance conditions The Committee believes it to be important that executive directors and business performance to date against those conditions, and have a significant holding in the capital of the Company, and during determined that, for the time being, they were satisfied that the the Year each of Dave Forsey and Bob Mellors purchased one million conditions remained appropriate.
The Committee may, however, set ordinary shares in the Company.
different performance conditions for future awards.
Subject to satisfaction of applicable performance conditions, awards will vest at the end of the performance period and vested share awards will be released to participants automatically as soon as practicable after the date the shares vest.
