56 NoTes To THe FiNANciAl sTATeMeNTs FoR THe 52 WeeKs eNDeD 27 ApRil 2008 continued Accounting policies continued On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations which Changes in deferred tax assets or liabilities are recognised as a have a functional currency other than Sterling are translated into component of tax expense in the income statement, except where they relate to items that are charged or credited directly to equity in which Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of these subsidiary undertakings are case the related deferred tax is also charged or credited directly to translated at average rates applicable in the period.
exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
pensions The Group operates pension plans for the benefit of certain When a foreign operation is sold, combined exchange differences employees, including both defined contribution and defined benefit that have been recognised as a separate component of equity are plans.
recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
In relation to its defined contribution plans, the Group makes contributions to independently administered plans, the contributions In order to mitigate its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the being recognised as an expense when they fall due.
The Group has no Group enters into forward contracts See Chief Executives report.
legal or constructive obligation to make any further payments to the plans other than the contributions due.
inventories In relation to its defined benefit schemes, the Group recognises in Inventories are valued at lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes the purchase price of the manufactured products, materials, its balance sheet the present value of its defined benefit obligations direct labour, transport costs and a proportion of applicable less the fair value of plan assets.
The current service cost is charged overheads.
Cost is calculated using FIFO first in, first out.
Interest on the scheme liabilities is included realisable value is based on the estimated selling price less all in finance costs and the expected return on scheme assets is included in finance income.
loans and receivables The defined benefit obligation is calculated at each period end by Loans and receivables are recognised initially at fair value and independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The subsequently measured at amortised cost under the effective interest present value of the obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality rate method less provision for impairment.
Provision for impairment is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the be able to collect amounts due according to the original terms of the benefits will be paid and which have terms to maturity approximatreceivable.
The amount of the impairment is the difference between ing the terms of the related pension liabilities.
Actuarial gains and the assets carrying amount and the present value of the estimated losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are reflected in the statement of recognised income and future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
expense in the period in which they arise.
cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and on demand Borrowings and borrowing costs deposits held with banks.
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred, and subsequently at amortised cost.
Any difference Trade and other payables between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption Trade and other payables are initially measured at fair value, and are value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has Deferred taxation an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 Deferred taxation is calculated using the liability method, on months from the balance sheet date.
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial Borrowing costs, being interest and other costs incurred in connection with the servicing of borrowings, are recognised as an expense when statements.
However, if the deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or initial recognition of an asset or liability incurred.
in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or provisions loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax on temporary differences A provision is recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that associated with shares in subsidiaries and joint ventures is not provided if reversal of these temporary differences can be controlled an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a by the Group and it is probable that reversal will not occur in the reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
In addition, tax losses available to be carried forward as well as other income tax credits to the group are assessed The Group provides for dilapidations costs following advice from chartered surveyors and previous experience of exit costs.
The for recognition as deferred tax assets.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially estimated cost of fulfilling the leasehold dilapidations obligations is enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when discounted to present value and analysed between non-capital and the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability capital components.
The capital element is recognised as a is settled.
decommissioning cost and depreciated over the life of the asset.
The non-capital element is taken to the income statement in the first year Deferred tax liabilities are provided in full.
of the lease where the cost it represents is of no lasting benefit to the Group or its landlord.
Wear and tear costs are expensed to the Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that income statement.
Provisions for onerous lease contracts are future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary recognised when the Group believes the unavoidable costs of meeting the lease obligations exceed the economic benefits expected differences can be utilised.
to be received under the lease.
