spoRTs DiRecT iNTeRNATioNAl plc ANNuAl RepoRT 2008 55 property, plant and equipment Revenue recognition Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or depreciation less any recognised impairment losses.
Cost includes receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition or provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts and sales construction of these items.
Subsequent costs are included in the related taxes.
assets carrying amount only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the costs In case of goods sold through retail stores, revenue is recognised when can be measured reliably.
All other costs, including repairs and goods are sold to the customer, less provision for returns.
maintenance costs, are charged to the income statement in the period Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for such in which they are incurred.
returns at the time of the sale.
Retail sales are usually in cash, by debit card or by credit card.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment other than freehold land and is calculated on a reducing balance basis or In the case of income generated from trade marks and licences, straight-line basis, whichever is deemed by the Directors to be more revenue is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the appropriate, to allocate cost less assessed residual value, other than relevant agreements or on a transactional basis when revenue is assets in the course of construction, over the estimated useful lives, linked to sale or purchase volumes.
as follows: Revenue from property related transactions is recognised when the Freehold buildings 2% per annum relevant service is provided.
Leasehold property over the term of the lease Plant and equipment between 5% and 33% per annum exceptional items The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income The assets useful lives and residual values are reviewed and, if statement those significant items of income and expense which, appropriate, adjusted at each balance sheet date.
because of their size, nature and infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to The gain or loss arising on disposal or scrapping of an asset is understand better the elements of financial performance in the Year, determined as the difference between the sales proceeds, net of so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods to assess trends in selling costs, and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised financial performance more readily.
interest income impairment of assets other than goodwill and intangible assets with Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the an indefinite life principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, At each balance sheet date, the Directors review the carrying amounts which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts of the Groups tangible and intangible assets, other than goodwill and through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net intangible assets with an indefinite life, to determine whether there is carrying amount.
any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is Government grants and similar income estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if Income from government grants and similar income such as landlord any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are contributions and inducements that compensate the Group for the independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable cost of an asset are recognised in the balance sheet as a deduction in amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
arriving at the carrying amount of the related asset.
This is considered to reflect the true cost of the asset to the Group.
The Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and amount is recognised in the consolidated income statement over the value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows life of the depreciable asset by way of a reduced depreciation charge.
are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that To date the Group has not received government grants in reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and compensation for expenses charged in the consolidated income the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash statement.
flows have not been adjusted.
Foreign currencies If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is The presentational currency of the Group is Sterling.
Foreign estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of currency transactions are translated into Sterling using the exchange the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the of monetary items, are included in the income statement for the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of nonmonetary items carried at fair value are included in the income Impairment losses recognised for cash-generating units, to which statement for the period except for differences arising on the goodwill has been allocated, are credited initially to the carrying retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and amount of goodwill.
Any remaining impairment loss is charged pro losses which are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary rata to the other assets in the cash-generating unit.
items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
Monetary assets and liabilities Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying to the income statement.
amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset cash-generating unit in prior periods.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement immediately.
