spoRTs DiRecT iNTeRNATioNAl plc ANNuAl RepoRT 2008 91 NoTes To THe coMpANY FiNANciAl sTATeMeNTs 1.
Accounting policies Related party transactions These accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable The company has taken advantage of the exemption in Financial United Kingdom accounting standards.
A summary of the more Reporting Standard 8 from reporting related party transactions as its important accounting policies adopted are described below.
own Financial Statements are presented together with its Consolidated Financial Statements.
Basis of accounting The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost share-based payments convention.
The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20, Share-based Payment.
The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, a profit and to certain directors and employees of the Company and its loss account of the Company is not presented.
These are measured at fair value at the date of grant for the 52 week period 27 April 2008 was 184,687,000 which is expensed to the Consolidated Income Statement on a 2007 58,380,000 straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
investments Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less any provision for Fair value is measured by use of a Monte Carlo method.
life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, Cost represents cash consideration or the amount of ordinary shares and behavioural considerations.
No share-based payment charge was issued by the Company at nominal value after taking account of recognised for the 52 weeks ended 27 April 2008 as the directors did merger relief available under s131 of the Companies Act 1985 plus not consider it material to the Groups financial results or position.
related acquisition costs capitalised at fair value.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is provided for on a full provision basis on all timing differences, which have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
No timing differences are recognised in respect of gains on sale of assets where those gains have been rolled over into replacement assets.
A deferred tax asset is not recognised to the extent that the transfer of economic benefit in future is uncertain.
Deferred tax is calculated on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currencies Items arising from transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
At the balance sheet date all monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the closing rate or at the rate of exchange at which the transaction is contracted to be settled in the future.
All exchange differences are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
Dividends Dividends on the Companys ordinary shares are recognised as a liability in the Companys financial statements, and as a deduction from equity, in the period in which the dividends are declared.
Where such dividends are proposed subject to the approval of the Companys shareholders, the dividends are only declared once shareholder approval has been obtained.
equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Company, with the exception of those accounted for via merger relief available under s131 of the Companies Act 1985, are recorded at the proceeds received, net of any direct issue costs.
income from group undertakings Income from group undertakings is recognised when qualifying consideration is received from the group undertaking.
