spoRTs DiRecT iNTeRNATioNAl plc ANNuAl RepoRT 2008 39 Annual Bonus scheme The Annual Bonus Scheme rewards executive directors for achieving The Committee chose TSR as a performance measure because it challenging business performance targets, chosen at the beginning of compares the actual returns to shareholders with the actual returns to shareholders in a comparator group of companies, thus providing a the period for their relevance in driving the short term performance of the Group towards the achievement of strategic goals.
In the Year relative measure of performance.
the maximum bonus payable to Dave Forsey and Bob Mellors was 100% of salary, and one half of the bonus was to be paid if both target The Committee believes that the combination of absolute and relative sales and target EBITDA were achieved, and the remainder of the measure is the best way to align the interest of the director with the actual return to shareholders, and that the targets reflect the history bonus would be paid if target sales are achieved and if a stretch target EBITDA is achieved, with no intermediate payments.
Performance was of growth in the Companys businesses and are challenging but such that no bonus was paid in respect of the Year.
The Committee has determined that the annual bonus scheme for EPS growth over the first performance period will be calculated by reference to the EPS as derived from the pro forma accounts prepared 2008 09 will operate on the same basis as in the Year.
Mike Ashley did not participate in the Annual Bonus Scheme for the Year, and will not for the 26 week period to 29 October 2006. participate in the scheme for 2008 09.
For the purpose of the Performance Share Plan EPS means the diluted earnings per ordinary share of the Company calculated in accordance with IAS 33 Earnings Per Share or any modification or The performance share plan The Performance Share Plan was adopted on 11 February 2007, and replacement to that standard with which the Company is obliged to provides a direct link between executive directors remuneration and comply provided that the Committee has the power after the return to shareholders.
consultation with the auditors to adjust the EPS figure to arrive at a figure which reflects underlying business performance of the Group and also to take such steps as necessary to ensure that relevant The maximum number of shares that an executive director may acquire pursuant to share awards granted to him in any financial year accounting standards are applied on a consistent basis.
may not have an aggregate market value, as measured at the date of grant, exceeding 400% of his annual basic salary.
The number of shares that will vest under the EPS tranche of each award will be determined as follows: Market value for this purpose is based on the closing middle market quotation for a share as derived from the Daily Official List of Percentage of shares in EPS Growth the London Stock Exchange for the dealing day immediately preceding EPS tranche that vest the date of grant.
Below 19% per annum 0 On 5 April 2007, during the 42-day period following Admission, share 19% per annum Threshold 25 awards were granted to each of Dave Forsey and Bob Mellors relating 24% per annum Target 50 to 400% of their basic salary.
No awards were made during the Year as the performance period for any awards that may have been made 29% per annum Stretch 100 during the Year would have ended at the same time as the awards made on 5 April 2007.
Share awards under the Performance Share Plan are subject to Shares comprised in the EPS tranche will vest on a straight-line basis performance conditions imposed by the Committee at the time of for performance between Threshold and Target and between Target grant.
The extent to which the performance conditions are satisfied and Stretch.
will determine how many if any of the shares each executive director is entitled to receive.
Performance conditions are not capable of being TSR means, in relation to a share in the Company or an ordinary share retested, so that any proportion of a share award which does not vest in a company in the comparator group in a performance period, the on the normal vesting date will lapse.
aggregate of the increase above or decrease below the average market value of such a share at the beginning of the relevant The Committee determined in respect of the first grants made under performance period and the aggregate value of dividends paid in that the plan that the vesting of 50% of the awards would be subject to a performance period excluding any tax credit, where each such performance target based on the earnings per share EPS growth of dividend is deemed to have been reinvested in the shares of each the Company over the designated performance period.
The remaining relevant company from the date of payment of the dividend to the last 50% of the awards are subject to a performance target based on the day of the performance period.
Companys total shareholder return TSR over the same performance period when compared against a group of comparator The initial comparator group of companies comprised the following companies.
companies: The performance period for grants under the Performance Share Plan Marks & Spencer plc will usually be the three consecutive financial years commencing with Kingfisher plc the financial year in which the option or award is granted, but for initial Next Group plc awards following Admission, the performance period runs from the date of grant to 25 April 2010 the end of the 2009-10 financial year.
Home Retail Group plc DSG International plc EPS was chosen as a performance measure because it is an absolute The Carphone Warehouse Group plc measure of real Group performance.
