54 NoTes To THe FiNANciAl sTATeMeNTs FoR THe 52 WeeKs eNDeD 27 ApRil 2008 1.
Accounting policies Associates and joint ventures The consolidated financial statements of Sports Direct International Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group have but not control, generally accompanied by a share of between 20% and been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 50% of the voting rights.
Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS.
A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest on a The following IFRS, International Financial Reporting Interpretations long term basis and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or Committee IFRIC interpretations and amendments have been more other venturers under a contractual agreement.
adopted in the financial statements: The Groups share of the results of associates and joint ventures is IFRS 7 - Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the complementary included in the Groups consolidated income statement using the amendment to IAS 1 - Presentation of Financial Statements - Capital equity method of accounting.
Investments in associates and joint Disclosures were issued in August 2005 and have introduced revised ventures are carried in the Groups consolidated balance sheet at cost and additional disclosures.
This implementation has had no impact on plus post acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the results or net assets of the Group.
the associates, less any impairment in value.
The carrying values of investments in associates and joint ventures include acquired IFRIC 11 - IFRS 2 - Group and Treasury Share Transactions was goodwill.
It clarifies the guidance for applying share-based payment arrangements to the seperate financial If the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals statements of each group company.
It is required to be implemented or exceeds its investment in the associate or joint venture, the Group by the Group from 30 March 2008.
It has had no material impact on does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to the results or net assets of the Group or on the Companys financial do so or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the IFRIC 14 - The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding entity.
Requirements and their Interaction was issued in July 2007.
It limits the recognition of a defined benefit asset when minimum funding investments requirements exist within a plan.
It was implemented by the Group For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from from 1 April 2007 and had no material impact on the results or net changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity through the assets of the Group.
statement of recognised income and expense, until the security is disposed at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously Basis of preparation recognised in equity is included in the consolidated income statement The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in for the period.
If an available-for-sale investment is determined to be accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union impaired, the cumulative loss previously recognised in equity is including International Accounting Standards IAS and included in the income statement for the period.
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 Goodwill applicable to companies reporting under IFRS as adopted for use in Goodwill arising on consolidation is recognised as an asset and the European Union.
The consolidated financial statements have been reviewed for impairment at least annually or when a change in prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified to include circumstances or situation indicates that the goodwill has suffered fair valuation of financial assets and derivative financial instruments an impairment loss.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the with borrowings recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction income statement.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a business costs incurred, and subsequently at amortised cost as required by include the amount of goodwill relating to that business.
other intangible assets consolidation Brands, trade marks and licences that are internally generated are The consolidated financial statements consolidate the revenues, costs, not recorded on the balance sheet.
Acquired brands, trade marks and assets, liabilities and cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries, licences are initially carried on the balance sheet at cost.
The fair being those entities in relation to which the Company has the power value of brands, trade marks and licences that are acquired by virtue to govern the financial and operating policies, generally achieved by a of a business combination is determined at the date of acquisition and share of more than 50% of the voting rights.
is subsequently assessed as being the deemed cost to the Group.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a No amortisation is charged on brands, trade marks or perpetual subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
renewable licences with an indefinite life as the Group believes that Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the the value of these brands and trade marks can be maintained identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
The Group carries out an impairment review on the deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the intangible assets, at least annually, or when a change in circumstances identifiable net assets acquired is credited to the consolidated income or situation indicates that those brands have suffered an impairment statement in the period of acquisition.
The interest of minority loss.
Impairment is measured by comparing the carrying amount of shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the intangible asset as part of the cash generating unit CGU with the the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
recoverable amount of the CGU, that is, the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Value in use is calculated by The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are discounting the expected future cash flows, using a discount rate included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date based on an estimate of the rate that the market would expect on an of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and Amortisation is provided on brands, trade marks and licences with a losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
definite life over their useful economic lives of 10 to 15 years and is accounted for within the selling, distribution and administrative expenses category within the income statement.
