58 NoTes To THe FiNANciAl sTATeMeNTs FoR THe 52 WeeKs eNDeD 27 ApRil 2008 continued 2. critical accounting estimates and judgments 3.
Financial risk management The critical accounting estimates and judgments made by the Group The Groups current activities result in the following financial risks regarding the future or other key sources of estimation, uncertainty and managements responses to those risks in order to minimise any and judgment that may have a significant risk of giving rise to a resulting adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
material adjustment to the carrying values of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are: Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange Financial position of retirement benefit plans risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to The net defined benefit pension plan assets or liabilities are the US dollar and Euro.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future recognised in the Groups balance sheet.
The determination of the commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net financial position requires assumptions to be made regarding inter investment in foreign operations.
alia future salary increases, mortality, discount rates and inflation.
The key assumptions made in relation to the pension plan are set out Management has set up a policy to require group companies to in Note 31. manage their foreign exchange risk against their functional currency.
To manage their foreign exchange risk arising from future provision for obsolete, slow moving or defective inventories commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities, entities The Directors have applied their knowledge and experience of the in the group use forward foreign exchange contracts, transacted with sports retail industry in determining the level and rates of group treasury.
Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial provisioning required in calculating the appropriate inventory carrying transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are denominated in a values.
The nature and carrying amounts are set out in Note 18. currency that is not the entitys functional currency.
impairment of goodwill interest rate risk The calculation for considering the impairment of the carrying amount The Group has net borrowings, which are principally at floating of goodwill requires a comparison of the present value of the interest rates linked to bank base rates or LIBOR.
The Group does not cash-generating units to which the goodwill has been allocated, to the use interest rate financial instruments to hedge its exposure to value of goodwill in the balance sheet.
The calculation of present interest rate movements.
The Group regularly monitors and reacts values requires an estimation of the future cash flows expected to accordingly to any exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and the arise from the cash-generating units and the selection of a suitable impact on its monetary assets and liabilities.
The key assumptions made in relation to the impairment review of goodwill are set out in Note 15. credit risk The Directors have a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit identification and valuation of acquired intangible assets risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Credit evaluations are On acquisition, each material separable intangible asset is identified performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount.
and valued by the Directors with assistance from a professional third The Group does not require collateral in respect of financial assets.
Any such calculation is judgmental in nature as it is based on a valuation methodology.
At each balance sheet date, there were no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by Brand valuations are typically valued using the relief from royalty the carrying amount of each financial asset in the balance sheet.
Investments of cash surpluses, borrowings and derivative instruments The nature and carrying amounts of these assets are set out in Note are made through banks and companies which must fulfil credit rating 15. and investment criteria approved by the Board.
useful economic life of intangible assets liquidity risk For intangible assets which have a finite life, the Directors revisit their The availability of adequate cash resources is managed by the Group estimate of useful economic life at each period end and revise through utilisation of its revolving bank facilities together with equity accordingly.
Licences and trade marks typically have a life of between and retained profits thereby achieving continuity of funding and 10 and 12 years.
impairment of other intangible assets The calculation for considering the impairment of the carrying amount of other intangible assets with an indefinite life, specifically brands, trade marks and licences, requires a comparison of the present value of the cash-generating units to the value of the other intangible assets in the balance sheet.
The calculation of present value requires an estimation of the future cash flows expected to arise from the other intangible assets and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
provision for dilapidations and onerous contracts The basis of the estimation of the provisioning for dilapidations and onerous contracts is detailed in the provision accounting policy and Note 33.
Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience, external advice and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
