spoRTs DiRecT iNTeRNATioNAl plc ANNuAl RepoRT 2008 57 leases international Financial Reporting standards standards in issue Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has but not yet effective substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as At the date of authorisation of these consolidated financial finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases inception statements, the International Accounting Standards Board IASB at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant which are effective for annual accounting periods beginning on or rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The asset subject to the after the stated effective date.
These standards and interpretations finance lease is depreciated over the shorter of its useful life and are not effective for and have not been applied in the preparation of the lease term.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance the consolidated financial statements: charges, are included as a liability.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements revised 2007 Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group does not effective 1 January 2009 have substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating IAS 23 Borrowing Costs revised 2007 effective 1 January leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis 2009 over the lease term.
Incentives provided by the lessor are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the minimum lease Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation term.
and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements - Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Rental income from operating leases where the Group acts as a Liquidation effective 1 January 2009 lessor is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Revised 2008 effective 1 July 2009 Derivative financial instruments The most significant exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations relates Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment - Vesting to purchases made in foreign currencies, principally the US dollar.
The Conditions and Cancellations effective 1 January 2009 Groups policy is to reduce substantially the risk associated with purchases denominated in foreign currencies by using forward fixed Amendments to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International rate currency purchase contracts, taking into account any foreign Financial Reporting Standards and IAS 27 Consolidated currency cash flows.
The foreign exchange contracts do not meet the and Separate Financial Statements - Costs of Investment criteria for treatment as an effective hedge and accordingly any gain or in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
effective 1 January 2009 Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Gains or Improvements to IFRSs effective 1 January 2009 other losses on derivative financial instruments related to financing than certain amendments effective 1 July 2009 activities are included in finance costs when recognised in the income statement.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised 2008 effective 1 July 2009 share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain IFRS 8 Operating Segments effective 1 January 2009 directors and employees.
These are measured at fair value at the date of grant which is expensed to the consolidated income statement on a IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements effective 1 straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups January 2008 estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes effective 1 July Fair value is measured by use of a Monte Carlo method.
The expected 2008 life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise IFRIC 14 IAS 19 - The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
No share-based Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction payment charge was recognised for the 52 weeks ended 27 April 2008 effective 1 January 2008 as the directors did not consider it material to the Groups financial results or position.
IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate effective 1 January 2009 equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity effective 1 October 2008 instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of any direct issue costs.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups Dividends financial statements in the period of initial adoption.
Dividends are recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements and as a deduction from equity in the period in which the dividends are declared.
Where such dividends are proposed subject to the approval of shareholders, the dividends are regarded as declared once shareholder approval has been obtained.
