spoRTs DiRecT iNTeRNATioNAl plc ANNuAl RepoRT 2008 35 The Board believes that the appointment of executive directors to be The Committees programme is pre-planned to ensure that each non-executive directors of other listed companies benefits the Group, aspect of its responsibilities is discharged as part of an annual cycle through the additional experiences and knowledge gained by such an during the Companys financial year.
The main responsibilities of the appointment, and accordingly, executive directors are permitted to Audit Committee are: accept one such appointment where no conflict of interest arises, and to retain the fees received.
Assisting the Board with the discharge of its responsibilities in relation to internal and external audits and controls.
All non-executive directors disclosed to the Board prior to appointment their significant other commitments and they are Monitoring the integrity and clarity of the Groups financial required to notify and have notified any changes to or additional statements, including making recommendations on judgments commitments from time to time.
Simon Bentley, the Acting Chairman, they contain.
is deputy Chairman of the solicitors Mishcon fide Reya, a senior trustee of the Leadership Trust, Chairman of the hair product brand Umberto Agreeing the scope of the annual audit and the annual audit plan, Giannini, the hotelier Maypole Group plc, and Brasher Leisure.
He and the extent of the non audit work that may be undertaken by is also a director of Powerleague.
The Board is satisfied that Simon external auditors.
Bentley meets his obligations to the Company.
All non-executive directors are available to meet with major investors.
Advising on the appointment, reappointment and removal of external auditors.
Dave Singleton has been appointed the Senior Independent NonExecutive Director and is available to shareholders if they have Reviewing accounting policies, terms of engagement and concerns which have failed to be resolved through the normal remuneration of the external auditors, and any changes thereto, channels of Chairman, Executive Deputy Chairman, Chief Executive, and the method of accounting for unusual transactions.
or Group Finance Director, or for which such channels are inappropriate.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control systems in place within the Group and ensuring that appropriate arrangements The Company Secretary is an employee of the Company and is the are in place under which employees can raise concerns about secretary of all Board committees, and fulfils the responsibilities possible financial or other impropriety which are then appropriately required of him by the Combined Code.
During the Year the Committee considered the matters that fell within Board committees its area of responsibility above, and in particular the arrangments for There are three principal Board committees, all of which have written monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls, and also considered terms of reference.
Summaries of the terms of reference and details the current economic climate and its likely impact on the Group: of the membership of committees are set out below.
Copies of the terms of reference are available from the Company Secretary and on The Audit Committee will normally meet not less than three times a the Companys website.
Only members of each Committee are year.
entitled to attend the meetings of committees, although each Committee may invite other directors, managers and advisors to The external auditors attend meetings of the Committee, other than attend and have done so.
Membership of Board committees will be when their appointment is being reviewed.
The Group Finance regularly reviewed.
Given the current size of the Board, and the terms Director also attends as appropriate.
The Committee will meet with of reference, all non-executive directors are members of every Board the auditors in the absence of executive management at least twice committee.
It is, however, the Boards intention that, when the number a year.
of independent non-executive directors appointed to the Board permits, the chairman of the Remuneration Committee will not serve The Audit Committee considers the reappointment of the auditors and on the Audit Committee, and vice versa.
The Board is satisfied that their remuneration, and makes recommendations to the Board, and currently no one director exercises a disproportionate influence.
the auditors are reappointed each year at the Annual General Meeting.
The Committee will consider the level of service provided by Attendance at meetings of committees is set out on the previous the auditors and their independence annually.
The Committee has approved a policy on the engagement of the external auditors for non-audit work, in order to ensure that the Audit committee objectivity of the auditors opinion on the Groups financial statements Directors who served on the Committee during the Year were: is not or may not be seen to be impaired, and has established a process to monitor compliance with that policy.
Simon Bentley Chairman The policy identifies three categories of potential work.
Firstly, those Chris Bulmer until 25 October 2007 tasks that the auditors may not provide, as to do so would represent a real threat to independence.
That work includes the preparation Malcolm Dalgleish from 17 December 2007 of accounting entries or financial statements, IT systems design and implementation, management of projects and tax planning where the Dave Singleton from 7 December 2007 outcome would have a material impact on the financial statements or where the outcome is dependent upon accounting treatment.
The Chairman of the committee is a Chartered Accountant, and has recent and relevant financial experience.
Secondly, types of work that the auditors may undertake with the consent of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Included in this The Committee met on four occasions during the Year.
category are certain corporate finance services, acquisition due diligence, management consultancy and secondment of staff other than for the preparation of accounting entries or financial statements.
