Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 03 Corporate Governance Report continued 42 1.
Board Effectiveness Independence and Experience Director Elections clear information, with all committee and of Non-Executive Directors The company requires all Directors to stand Board papers being issued in advance of The Board has assessed the independence for election by shareholders at the first meetings.
On joining the Board, Directors of the non-Executive Directors against the Annual General Meeting AGM following receive a comprehensive induction course criteria set out in the Code and has concluded appointment.
In addition, all Directors are tailored to their individual requirements that they are all independent in character and required to retire by rotation and stand for which includes meetings with the Executive judgement.
In line with the recommendations re-election at least every three years.
Colin Directors and the senior management of the Code, at least half the Board, excluding Hood, Ian Marchant, Ren Mdori and Sir team, visits to key sites, and meeting key the Chairman, are independent non-Executive Robert Smith will stand for re-election at this stakeholders.
It also covers a review of the Directors.
Sir Robert Smith was also years AGM.
Sir Kevin Smith intends to retire Groups governance, policies, structure and independent when appointed Chairman.
from the Board at the AGM this year.
The business including details of the risks and Board evaluation process confirmed that the operational issues facing the Group.
The non-Executive Directors are chosen performance of the Directors standing for refor their wide range of skills and experience.
election continue to be effective and that they During the year, the Board and Board Their continuing independence of judgement continued to demonstrate commitment in committees are kept up-to-date with is confirmed in the annual Board performance their respective roles.
In addition, Sir Robert developments.
This generally follows a evaluation process.
Non-Executive Directors Smith as Chairman and Ren Mdori as a forward programme where briefings are serve on the Board committees of Audit, non-Executive Director, have the appropriate given by Executive Directors and the senior Nomination and Remuneration, and one experience, knowledge and independence management team on developments in their serves on the Health, Safety and to scrutinise effectively the performance business area.
Additional specialist briefings Environmental Advisory Committee.
Biographical details for all were given on areas such as Directors Further details on the membership and the Directors are set out on pages 48 and 49. duties, corporate governance, regulation, operation of these committees are set health and safety, and financial reporting out on pages 43 to 46.
Attendance at Board and Board standards.
Separate more informal meetings Committee Meetings were also held with the senior management The Chairman and non-Executive Directors Non-attendance at Board and committee team.
The non-Executive Directors have met during the year without the Executive meetings is rare, although may arise due individual meetings, briefings and site visits.
The non-Executive to unforeseen circumstances or prior The briefs focus on subjects where they have Directors met without the Chairman present.
commitments which could not be rearranged, specific knowledge or expertise, such as as in the case of Sir Kevin Smith during energy trading, operational matters and All of the non-Executive Directors have 2007 08.
Where a Director is unable to attend customer service.
been appointed for fixed terms of three a meeting he or she provides comments and years.
Appointment letters are available feedback to either the Chairman, Committee The Board believes that given the experience on the companys website www.
scottishChairman or Company Secretary, who and skills of the Directors and the briefings southern.
ensure that the comments received are referred to above, any further personal raised at the meeting.
training needs should be left to the Senior Independent Director discretion of the individual.
The company Susan Rice was appointed Senior Independent The attendance of Directors at Board makes the necessary resources available Director on 26 July 2007 on the retirement meetings and at meetings of the six principal should any Director request training.
She is available to meet committees during 2007 08 is set out in with major shareholders on request and she Table A below.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors attended the city presentation of the Groups to be able to take independent professional half-year results.
In January 2008 she BOARD EFFECTIVENESS advice, if necessary, at the Groups expense.
carried out the Chairmans performance The prior approval of the Chairman is required evaluation, together with the other nonInformation and Professional Development where such advice is likely to exceed 10,000.
The Directors receive accurate, timely and Any advice obtained shall be made available Table A Attendance at Meetings Health, Safety and Environmental Audit Nomination Remuneration Executive Risk Advisory Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 8 meetings 3 meetings 2 meetings 5 meetings 12 meetings 13 meetings 3 meetings Sir Robert Smith 8 2 5 Gregor Alexander 8 12 13 Nick Baldwin 8 3 Richard Gillingwater 833 Colin Hood 8 12 3 Ian Marchant 8 2 12 12 Ren Mdori 8 3 2 David Payne 3111 Alistair Phillips-Davies 8 12 13 Susan Rice 8 1 5 Sir Kevin Smith 6 2 4 3 Richard Gillingwater was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 26 July 2007.
David Payne retired as a non-Executive Director on 26 July 2007 and attended all relevant meetings up to his retirement.
