Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 17 3.
Energy Supply Since the start of 2007 08, through equity and is available to generate electricity, with the programme for customers launched loans, SSE has committed to investing over maximum possible efficiency, in response k Sector-leading Customer Charter 60m in a variety of emerging technologies to customer demand and market conditions, and new Vulnerable Customers Code designed to deliver secure, reliable and costwhile complying fully with all safety standards of Practice effective low carbon energy systems, of which and environmental regulations.
k Establishment of presence in the 13.8m was invested by the end of March 2008.
Irish all-island market, with 38,000 The achievement of these objectives is mainly commercial customers Review of Carbon Intensity Target now supported by an SSE-wide Engineering k Launch of new Energy Performance In the light of its enhanced renewable Centre, which has been established to provide Certificates business energy capability, SSE has reviewed its target an effective long-term asset management, of reducing the amount of carbon dioxide engineering strategy and investment planning Energy Supply Objectives per kilowatt-hour of electricity, produced at capability across SSEs growing range of Energy supply in the UK is changing power stations in which it has an ownership electricity generation and gas storage assets.
dramatically, with companies having to or contractual interest, by 20% over the ten operate in volatile markets, which reflect years to 2016.
The base year for SSEs carbon SSE will also be working to ensure that all depletion of North Sea oil and gas fields, intensity target is 2005 06, because it was the generation plant is well-maintained, with soaring global demand and competition first full year after it acquired coal-fired power timely investment in asset replacement for all types of energy and, during 2007 08, stations at Fiddlers Ferry and Ferrybridge.
and refurbishment projects and that the the passing of the $100 per barrel oil new generation projects proceed on time price milestone.
All of this culminated SSE is now targeting a reduction in carbon and on budget.
As is the case throughout the in persistently high wholesale prices for intensity of 50%, to around 300g kWh, over generation sector, these projects and plans electricity and gas during 2007 08.
As with the may be subject to the impact of increasing pressures are compounded by the rising previous target, SSE will report on its progress capital costs and skills shortages as transmission, distribution and environmental against the 50% target each year, and in worldwide demand for electricity costs which suppliers have to meet.
2007 08 carbon intensity on this basis was just infrastructure continues to rise.
The decisions SSE takes and The UKs energy market remains the most the investments it makes will be guided by During 2008 09, major questions will competitive in the EU and G7, according to its new target.
Like most long-term targets, continue to be asked about the sustainability a report by the Oxford Economic Research achievement will be influenced to some of electricity production in the UK, Ireland, Associates OXERA published in January 2008 extent by circumstances outside its control.
SSE is a major which monitored the competitiveness of the investor in minimising the environmental energy market by assessing a range of Nuclear Power impact of gasand coal-fired generation factors.
In welcoming the report, the UK SSEs first responsibility to its customers and in renewable energy especially following Secretary of State for Business said Creating is to maintain supplies of energy, in a way the acquisition of Airtricity and emerging an open and competitive energy market has that is compatible with wider climate change technologies and making progress with meant that UK consumers have consistently and energy security issues.
Of the total these investments will be a central priority benefited from amongst the lowest energy electricity supplied by SSE during 2007 08, for SSE in 2008 09 and beyond.
around 15% was derived from nuclear power stations, which are owned and operated by Over the five years to 2013, it expects to Figures from Ofgem show that the switching other generators.
invest over 4bn across its entire generation rate for gas and electricity suppliers reached portfolio, including investment in existing more than five million in 2007.
This was the In its submission to the UK government assets.
This investment will be designed to highest level of switching for five years.
As consultation on the future of nuclear power abate the environmental impact of existing the Ofgem Chief Executive stated Suppliers in 2007, SSE said there is value in the UK assets and extend their lives and to deliver who dont offer competitive prices and good making available the nuclear option, along new assets, principally in renewable energy service will lose customers.
with a diverse range of other generation but also as in the case of Marchwood options, provided there is a stable framework thermal generation.
In an industry where switching is in place for investors and an appropriate commonplace and the cost of regaining degree of public confidence in all aspects of As a result, SSE will have a growing, but customers is significant, SSEs objective is nuclear power is maintained.
In other words, balanced, portfolio of electricity generation to grow its Energy Supply business by offering it believes that one more tranche of nuclear assets, with a diminishing environmental consistently competitive prices and providing power stations will be necessary, but that the impact and with relatively less exposure sector-leading service so that it is able to deployment of such power stations should be to fossil fuel price volatility.
It also aims to minimised through the maximum exploitation broaden its relationship with those customers of renewable sources of energy.
ENERGY SUPPLY through the provision of added value products and services relevant to them and their needs.
Against this background, SSE may work with k Net gain of 700,000 energy supply other parties to help secure the development customers, to 8.45 million following Pricing Policy for Domestic Electricity of new nuclear power stations, through responsible pricing policy and Gas Customers appropriate contractual support or k Grown to become UKs second largest Over the past few years, SSE has adopted investment.
In practice, however, any supplier of electricity and gas a responsible pricing policy.
The policy investment is unlikely to be made before the k Only supplier to defer electricity and gas means that SSE seeks to be the last, or one next decade and any new nuclear power price rises to end of winter period of the last, of the major suppliers to increase stations are unlikely to be commissioned k Further reduction, of 27%, in complaints prices if it has to and the first, or one of the before the start of the decade after that.
to energywatch first, to reduce prices if it can.
The consistent k Ranked first in uSwitch.
com Customer application of this policy means that SSEs Generation Priorities for 2008 09 and Beyond Satisfaction Report customers have paid an average total of During 2008 09, and beyond, SSEs key k Top-ranked supplier of electricity and gas around 430 less for their electricity and objectives in Generation will be to ensure in JD Power Customer Satisfaction Study gas during the last four years than have that its diverse portfolio of power stations k better plan energy efficiency reward customers of the UKs largest supplier, Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 02 Business Statement Generation and Supply continued 18 3.
Energy Supply continued British Gas.
SSE was the only major supplier not to introduce a price increase during 2007 08, although price rises were implemented on 1 April 2008.
It intends to maintain its responsible pricing policy going forward.
SSE has overtaken E. ON Customer Numbers UK to become the UKs The implementation of its responsible second largest energy pricing policy helped SSE achieve a net supplier, having gained gain of 700,000 energy customers during 700,000 customers 2007 08, taking the total to 8.45 million as 2008 8.45 during the year.
at 31 March 2008, comprising 5.28 million electricity customers and 3.17 million gas 2007 7.75 customers.
Within the total, SSEs business 2006 6.70 customers now cover over 400,000 sites throughout Great Britain and 1.8 million 2005 6.10 customers have loyalty products such as energyplus Argos, which rewards customers 2004 5.25 700,000 with money-off discount vouchers.
The growth secured during the year enabled SSE to overtake E. ON UK to become the UKs In October 2007, uSwitch.
com reported that It is in line with research which has confirmed second largest supplier according to the SSE was ranked top for customer satisfaction that the key frustrations for customers Datamonitor Market Share Monitor.
SSE has for the fourth time in a row in its latest are the length of time they spend on hold gained almost four million energy supply independent Customer Satisfaction Report when seeking help over the telephone and customers since the start of 2002, when it and it described SSE as simply the best.
being passed to more than one company was the UKs fifth largest supplier.
In other words, while In the result of the JD Power 2007 UK technology has its part to play in supporting In addition to electricity and gas customers, Electricity and Gas Customer Satisfaction service delivery, customers like to interact SSE now has 165,000 talk with telecoms Study announced in November 2007, SSE directly with company representatives.
SSE customers and 70,000 shield gas boiler was ranked the top-performing supplier in has, therefore, broadened the role of its maintenance customers.
This means its total both electricity and gas.
This was the first advisers and actively extended call times customer base in Great Britain was almost time one supplier had achieved the top to ensure there is a full understanding 8.7 million as at 31 March 2008.
It also has ranking in both sectors.
In electricity, it was of customers requirements.
38,000 mainly commercial electricity the only supplier to achieve overall customer customers in the Irish all-island market.
satisfaction which was significantly better Vulnerable Customers than average: and in gas it was one of just The single biggest contribution which energy In July 2007, Ofgem published its Domestic two suppliers to deliver significantly better suppliers can make to helping vulnerable Retail Market Report, which confirmed that than average customer satisfaction.
customers is to keep prices as low as SSE is the UKs most successful supplier in possible for as long as possible, and this terms of the share of the electricity supply Customer Service Developments principle is one of the reasons for SSEs market held by incumbent suppliers in the SSEs objective is to build on its position as responsible pricing policy.
It stated that SSE the UKs leading energy supplier for customer had 80% of the electricity customers in the service, and thereby be in a strong position to SSE also believes that any social tariff Scottish Hydro Electric area, 70% of the retain and gain customers.
In line with that, offered by suppliers is only meaningful if customers in the SWALEC area and 62% of it is introducing a new Domestic Energy it is clearly the lowest-cost tariff that they the customers in the Southern Electric area.
Customer Charter, building on the original make available to any type of customer on The next highest share held by an incumbent Charter which it launched in 2006. any type of payment plan or sign-up method.
This has again confirmed Its energyplus care tariff and package of the value of SSEs three regional energy The new Charter maintains the services means eligible customers receive at supply brands.
commitment-based approach to general least a 20% discount from their energy tariff customer enquiries which was central to in addition to other help including benefit Customer Service Performance the approach contained in the first Charter, entitlement checks, free energy efficient Central to success in a highly-competitive with the emphasis on ensuring that as many appliances and home insulation, where market such as Energy Supply is maintaining customers as possible have their issues appropriate.
SSE is aiming to make the tariff the highest possible standards of customer resolved at the first point of contact.
It also available on 100,000 customer accounts by service.
Despite the significant growth in sets out improved standards for responding the end of March 2009. customer numbers, SSE secured during to customers enquiries and also confirms 2007 08 another reduction, of 27% to 615, SSEs responsible pricing policy.
In April 2008, SSE and the other major in the number of customer complaints energy suppliers entered into a three-year sent to energywatch for resolution.
This Customer service performance is now agreement with the UK government to offer compares with 3,400 five years ago in supported by the combination, from increased assistance to the fuel poor and 2002 03.
SSE continues to have the lowest September 2007, of telephony and billing groups vulnerable to fuel poverty.
Under the number of complaints sent to energywatch systems so that they now recognise a agreement, SSE will operate existing and for resolution and, in September 2007, customers phone number and bring up their new schemes with a total value of around it was announced that it had come top details on the screen in front of the customer 16m in the first phase, up to 31 March in an energywatch survey of small service adviser.
The UK government has stated that business customers satisfaction with 30 seconds per call and adds the equivalent given the substantial commitment that an their energy suppliers.
of around 100 extra people to take calls.
agreement of this kind represents, it will Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 19 not expect or ask companies to do more on enabling them to get money off their energy brands, best-in-sector customer service, social assistance over the period 2008-11. bills, A-rated electrical and gas appliances responsible pricing policy and range of and energy efficiency measures.
Around value-adding offers to increase further These schemes will be designed to assist the 40,000 customers have already joined the its number of energy supply customers fuel poor and those vulnerable to fuel poverty.
They will feature a variety of approaches such as social tariffs, including energyplus care, Energy Performance Certificates Central to this will be the development and charitable donations, bespoke services for The UK government is progressively deployment of further improvements to the vulnerable customers, work with advocate introducing Energy Performance Certificates level of service offered to customers, leading organisations and community-based EPCs for house sales and commercial and to higher standards and fewer complaints.
In support of this agreement, rented properties.
The certificates are This will include improvements in SSEs SSE has published a Code of Practice for commissioned by the seller or their agent ability to communicate electronically with Vulnerable Customers, following consultation from an accredited energy assessor, who customers.
The successful launch of new with consumer and voluntary organisations.
visits the property to collect the relevant data products, sometimes in partnership with and who creates the certificate.
Ultimately, other organisations, will be a key priority.
Renewable Energy there could be a requirement for up to There will also be a focus on providing In common with all other electricity suppliers, 7.5 million surveys each year.
enhanced support for vulnerable customers.
SSE provides information to its customers on the fuel mix of their electricity supply.
SSE is recruiting qualified Domestic Energy SSEs priority in the Irish all-island market The intention is that the provision of this Assessors to develop a new nationwide will be to consolidate and integrate its information should enable customers business to provide customers with EPCs recently-acquired supply businesses, thereby to make informed choices about the and other related services which will providing the basis from which to grow environmental impact of the electricity complement its activities in energy supply, customer numbers significantly in the future.
Based on the latest information energy efficiency and energy services.
The available at 31 March 2008, SSEs customers launch of the new business is another part During 2008 09, significant questions will were supplied by a higher proportion of of SSEs strategy to work with customers to continue to be asked about the affordability renewable energy 10.2% than customers actively manage their energy consumption.
of electricity and gas, in the context of of any other major supplier.
The average intense global competition for energy.
proportion of renewable energy supplied Ireland SSEs response will be to maintain its policy by the other major suppliers was 4.5%.
The all-island electricity market comprises of responsible pricing, promote energy 2.6 million customers.
There are also efficiency, reinforce the standard of its Product Marketing around 750,000 gas customers.
Following customer service and enhance its support Energy supply remains intensely competitive the acquisitions of Airtricity and also CHP for its most vulnerable customers.
and, in addition to responsible pricing and Supply Ltd, SSE had just over 38,000 mainly best-in-sector customer service, product commercial electricity customers at Longer-term, continuing trends in development and marketing sometimes 31 March 2008.
SSE will build on this technology, and customers use of it, are working with other organisations has an customer base to expand its presence likely to lead to a material change in the important part to play in gaining and in the commercial sector, begin supplying number of energy supply customers who retaining customers loyalty.
electricity to domestic customers and, wish to deal with their supplier online.
This, in due course, begin supplying gas.
With its in turn, means that suppliers will be required SSE has a suite of energyplus loyalty experience of competing successfully in the to have the optimum range of products and products, ranging from energyplus Argos, energy supply market in Great Britain, SSE tariff structures and, perhaps, affinity which rewards customers with money-off believes it is well-placed to make an impact arrangements.
Over the next few years, SSE discount vouchers, to energyplus Pulse, on the all-island market also.
expects to make significant investment and which supports the British Heart Foundation.
progress in each of these areas which, allied Of SSEs 8.45 million energy supply Energy Supply Priorities in 2008 09 to its long-standing focus on responsible customers, around 1.8 million now have and Beyond pricing and customer service, is designed loyalty products an increase of around During 2008 09, and beyond, SSE will seek to deliver continuing long-term growth in one-third during the year.
to capitalise further on its strong regional its energy supply business.
The Energy White Paper said the starting point for our energy policy is to save energy.
It said the government would empower consumers to make more informed energy choices and it also referred to trials of smart meters and real-time displays which enable people to track their energy use, and in energywatch is the which SSE has been selected to participate.
independent gas and 2,632 electricity watchdog.
It was In short, the structure of energy consumption 1,981 established in November is going to change significantly and SSE 2000 through the Utility 1,573 believes that customers greater awareness Act to protect and promote 840 of the need for energy efficiency represents the interests of all gas and an opportunity.
Against this background, it has electricity consumers.
2004 launched the better plan a unique energy 2005 programme which enables and encourages customers to commit to using less energy, 2006 supported by the provision of a real-time unit 2007 displaying electricity consumption.
The better 2008 plan rewards them for doing so with vouchers Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 The right question Once produced and gathered, electricity and gas are delivered via overhead lines, underground cables and pipelines to people who rely on this energy in homes, offices, businesses, schools and hospitals.
Any interruption to the energy supply, no matter how brief, is considered by many as unacceptable.
The right question is how does SSE make sure its networks are reliable so that the number and duration of power cuts experienced by customers is kept to a minimum?
HOW DO WE ENSURE OUR NETWORKS ARE RELIABLE?
SSE distributes electricity to over 3.5 million customers in central southern England, and in the north of Scotland through one transmission and two distribution networks.
The key responsibility of SSEs electricity networks businesses is to maintain safe and reliable supplies of electricity.
This means networks which do not succumb to random failures, are able to withstand unusual conditions such as storms and are resilient in the face of rapid variations in demand for power.
In addition, SSE must be able to restore supplies as quickly as possible in the event of interruptions.
Ofgems Distribution Price Control Review for 2005-10 resulted in substantially increased allowances for capital expenditure to maintain and improve the networks performance.
The challenge for SSE is to target this investment so as to benefit the greatest number of customers through initiatives including: automating switching devices to help restore power more quickly when there are interruptions: and replacing open wire overhead conductors with BLX and ABC covered wires that are more resilient to adverse weather conditions.
During the year, SSEs capital expenditure on electricity networks was 264.4m, compared with 204.5m in the previous year.
The other priority for SSE is to ensure that it delivers high levels of service to customers whose supplies of electricity are interrupted.
The quality of service received by customers from electricity distribution companies is monitored by Ofgem.
It focuses on two main types of quality of service measure: guaranteed standards of performance and output measures for specific service areas such as the number and duration of power supply interruptions.
In 2007 08, the average SSE distribution customer in the south of England was without power for a total of 67 minutes: in the north of Scotland, it was 72 minutes.
Looking ahead, Ofgem is undertaking a two-year review of the regulatory regime governing electricity networks to examine whether the current approach will deliver customers reliable and well-run networks, with good service at reasonable prices.
Reliability, therefore, will remain the key issue in electricity networks for years to come.
Burghmuir substation Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 21 127,000km of overhead and underground cables make SSE the UKs Highlight second largest electricity Island supplies network company.
SSE is responsible for distributing electricity to the Scottish Highlands and Islands.
With the exception of Shetland, the Islands rely on subsea cable connections to the mainland electricity network.
In all, SSE operates over 450km of subsea cables.
This year has seen the replacement of three of these cables reinforcing the electricity supply to islands.
In all, over 15km of subsea cable were replaced at a cost of 4.5m.
In addition, a new 10km subsea cable has been laid to reinforce the supply to the island of Mull at a cost of 2m.
2.7bn is SSEs estimate of Ofgems valuation of the assets in its electricity distribution and transmission businesses.
