Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 06 Shareholder Information 119 Companys Website Company Communications Benefits of eCommunication www.
co. uk Following the introduction of the Companies k Shareholders will receive email The companys website contains a wide Act 2006 shareholders now have a choice notification of the availability of the range of information including a dedicated on how to receive company communications interim results and have access to annual Investor Centre section where shareholders such as the annual report.
can find more information about the services k Shareholders can lodge their proxy available to them, download forms, view and A letter from the Chairman was sent to appointments securely over the internet.
update their shareholding online, manage shareholders as part of the dividend mailing k A donation of 2 will be made to WWFs their portfolio and view share price and in March 2008 asking shareholders to elect: International Forest Programme.
dividend histories and trading graphs.
k to receive email notification of company Keep us Informed Shareholder Services communications, view documentation Where delivery of an email fails, the company Scottish and Southern Energy offers a online and lodge their proxy over the is required to recommence sending paper number of services including: internet: copies of documents.
Shareholders can help k to receive written notification of the to avoid this by: k elect for eCommunications: availability of company communications k telephone and internet share dealing on the website: or k keeping the company informed of changes services with ShareGift option: k to continue to receive paper copies to their email addresses by visiting k merge multiple share accounts: and of company communications.
co. uk ecomms k dividend reinvestment plan.
and clicking on the click here link eCommunications Programme and following the instructions under Further information on these services and Shareholders can help Scottish and Southern address change: and other services can be found on the companys Energy reduce its impact on the environment k regularly clearing out their inboxes.
co. uk and save paper by electing to receive company investor centre shareholder services.
communications electronically by joining the Multiple Share Accounts eCommunications Programme.
If shareholders receive more than one Annual Shareholder Enquiries Report mailing, this may be due to having Shareholders can contact the registrar, A donation of 2 will be made to WWFs more than one share account due to minor Computershare Investor Services PLC International Forest Programme.
differences in name and address details.
Computershare, by phoning the dedicated Shareholders can merge multiple share shareholder helpline on 0845 143 4005, Registering for the accounts by completing a Multiple Share or writing to them at: The Pavilions, eCommunications Programme Account Form.
Shareholders can obtain Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY.
Shareholders can register their email a form by calling the registrars dedicated addresses by visiting the companys website shareholder helpline on 0845 143 4005.
co. uk ecomms The website and the Guidance Notes on the shareholders will be asked to provide their A donation of 2 will be made to WWFs reverse of the Proxy Form contain information Shareholder Reference Number.
International Forest Programme for every on how shareholders can appoint their proxy merged share account.
Online proxies can be checked and updated up until 12 noon on 22 July 2008 48 hours prior to the AGM.
Share Price Information The share price of Scottish and Southern Energy appears on www.
It also appears in the financial columns of the national press and on various broadcast interactive services.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 06 Shareholder Information continued 120 Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRP Financial Calendar Copy Reports The DRP is a simple and cost effective Annual General Meeting Copies of the following documents can be way to build shareholding in the company 24 July 2008 obtained, free of charge, from the Company by using cash dividends to buy additional Secretary, Scottish and Southern Energy plc, shares.
Shareholders can join the DRP by Ex dividend date Inveralmond House, 200 Dunkeld Road, Perth downloading a Dividend Reinvestment Plan 20 August 2008 PH1 3AQ or by accessing the companys Mandate Form and the Terms and Conditions website at www.
co. uk investor Record date centre shareholder services dividend 22 August 2008 k Annual Report and Accounts 2008. reinvestment or telephoning the dedicated k Corporate Responsibility Report 2008. shareholder helpline on 0845 143 4005 to Final dividend payable request a form.
26 September 2008 Share Dealing Service Interim announcement A telephone share dealing service has been 12 November 2008 arranged with Stocktrade which provides a simple way of buying or selling Scottish and The Groups half-year results will be Southern Energy plc ordinary shares.
Full published on the companys website at details can be obtained by telephoning 0845 www.
co. uk on 12 November 601 0995 and quoting reference Low Co 33.
2008, and will detail ex dividend and record dates for the interim dividend payable in Also, Computershare Investor Services March 2009.
Paper copies of the half-year offer telephone and internet share dealing results are not distributed to individual services to buy or sell SSE plc ordinary shareholders, although shareholders who shares.
Further details can be obtained have elected for eCommunications receive from www.
com dealing uk notification of the publication of the half-year or by telephoning 0870 703 0084. results on the companys website.
The value of shares can fall and shareholders may get back less than they invest.
Shareholders should consult a professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 if they are in any doubt about the suitability of an investment.
SSEs core purpose is to provide the energy people need in a reliable and sustainable way.
The right questions SSEs strategy has been, and will continue to be, the delivery of sustained real growth in the dividend payable to shareholders through the efficient operation of, and investment in, a balanced range of regulated and nonregulated energy and utility businesses.
Over the next decade, many key questions will be asked of companies in the energy sector.
SSE addresses these questions in this report.
How do we respond to rising global energy demand?
pg 6-7 SSEs priority is to maintain a diverse portfolio of efficient power stations and avoid dependency on any single primary fuel source.
This diversity, with a growing emphasis on renewable energy, also enables SSE to manage the risks associated with primary fuel procurement at times of volatile and rising energy prices.
How do we help customers save energy?
pg 14-15 SSE encourages its customers to reduce their consumption of energy through initiatives including: the UKs first energy tariff designed to reward reduced energy consumption: and trials of smart meters and real-time displays which enable customers to track their energy use.
How do we ensure our networks are reliable?
pg 20-21 SSE targets investment to benefit the greatest number of customers through initiatives including: automating switching devices to help restore power more quickly when there are interruptions: and replacing open wire overhead conductors with covered wires that are more resilient to adverse weather conditions.
How do we secure energy supplies for customers?
pg 30-31 SSE recognises the UKs growing dependence on imports of gas and the resulting risk to the security of energy supplies, given gas is used for generating electricity as well as heating homes, offices and businesses.
To address this, SSE is investing further in developing large-scale gas storage facilities, which will be Designed and produced by Tayburn Corporate strategically important to the UK.
Scottish and Southern Energy plc Annual Report 2008 Answering the right questions Scottish and Southern Energy plc Annual Report 2008 SSEs core purpose is to provide the energy people need in a reliable and sustainable way.
In line with this, its strategy has been, and will continue to be, the delivery of sustained real growth in the dividend payable to shareholders through the efficient operation of, and investment in, a balanced range of regulated and non-regulated energy and utility businesses.
Shareholders expect companies not simply to be profitable, but to be responsible in how those profits are made.
For SSE, this means that its Generation activities should be as sustainable as possible and that the energy it supplies should be as affordable as possible.
In addition, its networks should be reliable and its energy-related services dependable.
For further information about This report was printed on Revive 50:50 Silk which Scottish and Southern Energy, please contact: contains 50% recovered waste and conforms to government requirements for recycled paper.
It is also certified as an Scottish and Southern Energy plc FSC mixed sources grade.
Both the paper mill and printer Corporate Affairs involved in this production are environmentally accredited Inveralmond House with ISO 14001.
The printer is also registered as a Carbon 200 Dunkeld Road Neutral company.
co. uk Registered in Scotland No.
