Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 05 Notes on the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 61 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES General information Scottish and Southern Energy plc the Company is a company domiciled in Scotland.
The address of the registered office is given on the back cover.
The Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Business Statement at pages 8 to 34.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 comprise those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
Under section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own income statement and related notes.
Basis of preparation Statement of compliance The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 28 May 2008.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and its interpretations as adopted by the European Union adopted IFRS.
Basis of measurement The financial statements of the Group and the Company are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: certain derivative financial instruments, financial instruments classified as available for sale and the assets and liabilities of the Group pension scheme.
The Directors believe the financial statements present a true and fair view.
The financial statements of the Group and Company are presented in pounds Sterling.
Operations and transactions conducted in currencies other than pounds Sterling are included in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Groups foreign currencies accounting policy included on page 63.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements conforming with adopted IFRS requires the use of certain accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher level of judgement or estimation are summarised at page 68.
As permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, the Group has disclosed additional information in respect of jointly controlled entities and associates, exceptional items and certain re-measurements on the face of the income statement to aid understanding of the Groups financial performance.
An item is treated as exceptional if it is considered unusual by nature and scale and of such significance that separate disclosure is required for the financial statements to be properly understood.
Certain re-measurements are re-measurements arising on certain commodity, interest rate and currency contracts which are accounted for as held for trading or as fair value hedges in accordance with the Groups policy for such financial instruments.
This excludes commodity contracts not treated as financial instruments under IAS 39 which are held for the Groups own use requirement.
The following accounting standards and interpretations have been adopted by Group from 1 April 2007: k IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures k IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Share Based Payments k IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives k Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures k IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment k IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Share Based Payments Group and Treasury Transactions There was no significant impact on the financial statements arising from the adoption of these standards.
The following published standards and interpretations are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group: k IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements k IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes k IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Assets, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction k IFRS 8 Operating Segments k Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements A Revised Presentation k Amendments to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs k Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidation and Separate Financial Statements k Amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations The impact of these new standards has not been fully analysed and this will be assessed in future accounting periods.
Restated amounts Certain balance sheet items have been reclassified as current and non-current assets or liabilities to enhance understanding of the prior year results and to aid comparability with the current year presentation.
No revision of carrying values has been made.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 05 Notes on the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued 62 1.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Basis of consolidation The financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together with the Groups share of the results and net assets of its jointly controlled entities and associates.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries including special purpose entities are those entities controlled by the Group or the Company.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries acquired are consolidated in the financial statements of the Group from the date that control commences until the date control ceases.
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method of accounting.
The special purpose entities referred to relate to entities in which the Group has a 50% shareholding but whose activities the Group is deemed to control under SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
In the Company, investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any impairment charges.
Pre-acquisition dividends are accounted for as a reduction in the cost of investment in the subsidiary.
Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence but not control over the financial and operating policies, namely where the Group has a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
Joint ventures Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
In the consolidated financial statements, investments are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
Jointly controlled operations are businesses which use assets and liabilities that are separable from the rest of the Group.
In these arrangements, the Group accounts for its own share of property, plant and equipment, carries its own inventories, incurs its own expenses and liabilities and raises its own finance.
In the Company, investments in jointly controlled entities are carried at cost less any impairment charges.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-Group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from Intra-Group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from transactions with associates and jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Accounting policies Revenue recognition: energy, services and goods relating to the sale of energy Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and that the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue comprises sales of energy, use of system income, gas storage facility revenue, the value of services and facilities provided and goods sold during the year in the normal course of business.
Revenue on energy sales, including monies received from the electricity and gas balancing markets in the UK and wholesale market energy sales, includes an estimate of the value of electricity and gas supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading and the year end.
Unread energy sales are estimated using historical consumption patterns taking account of industry volume reconciliation processes.
Revenue from use of energy systems includes an estimation of the volume of electricity distributed or transmitted by customers based on independently procured electricity settlement systems data.
Annual revenue is dependent on being approved by the industry regulator, Ofgem.
Certain circumstances may result in the regulatory allowed income being overor under-recovered in the financial year.
Any overor underrecovery is included in the calculation of the following years regulatory use of system revenue within agreed parameters.
No adjustment is made for overor under-recoveries in the year that they arise.
Where the Group has an ongoing obligation to provide services, revenues are recognised as the service is performed and amounts billed in advance are treated as deferred income and excluded from current revenue.
For one-off services, such as connections, revenue is recognised at the date of service.
Revenue from fixed-fee service contracts is recognised over the life of the contract, in relation to the benefit received by the customer.
Gas storage facilities revenues are recognised evenly over the contract period, whilst revenues for the injection and withdrawal of gas are recognised at the point of gas flowing into or out of the storage facilities.
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed, along with the risks and rewards of ownership.
Government grants and customer contributions A government grant is recognised in the balance sheet initially as deferred income when there is reasonable assurance that it will be received and that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to it.
Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are recognised in the income statement on a systematic basis in the same years in which the expenses are incurred.
Grants that compensate the Group for the cost of an asset are recognised in the income statement on a systematic basis over the useful life of the asset to match the depreciation charge.
Customer contributions and capital grants have been recorded as deferred income and released to the income statement over the estimated life of the related assets.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 63 Leases The determination of whether an arrangement contains a lease is dependent on whether the arrangement relates to use and control of a specific asset.
Leases are classified as finance leases if the arrangement transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are categorised as operating leases.
i Operating lease obligations Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
ii Finance lease obligations Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and held as part of property, plant and equipment.
The accounting policy for such arrangements is described on page 64.
Foreign currencies The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and the Groups presentational currency.
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured accordingly.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any gain or loss arising on the restatement of such items is taken to the income statement with the exception of exchange gains or losses on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign entity.
These are taken against the hedge reserve to the extent that the hedge is effective.
Non-monetary assets that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated at the historic rate at the date of transaction.
For the purpose of presenting the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated into pounds Sterling at the balance sheet closing rate.
The results of these operations are translated at the average rate in the relevant period.
Exchange differences on retranslation of the opening net assets and the results are transferred to the translation reserve, a separate component of equity, and are reported in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Finance income and costs Finance income comprises interest receivable on funds invested and expected returns on pension scheme assets recognised in the income statement.
Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings, the release of discounting on provisions, interest on pension scheme liabilities and accretion of the debt component on the convertible loan less capitalised interest.
Interest on the funding attributable to major capital projects is capitalised during the years of construction and depreciated as part of the total cost over the useful life of the asset.
Interest income and costs are recognised in the income statement as they accrue, on an effective interest method.
The issue costs and interest payable on bonds and all other interest payable and receivable is reflected in the income statement on the same basis.
Taxation Taxation on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Taxation is recognised in the income statement unless it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is calculated using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities other than in business combinations that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset within the same tax authority and where the Company intends to either settle them on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Dividends Dividend income is recognised on the date the Groups right to receive payments is established.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 05 Notes on the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued 64 1.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairments.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
All items of property, plant and equipment are accounted for under the cost model within IAS 16.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, the components are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment, and depreciated accordingly.
ii Leased assets Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as part of the property, plant and equipment of the Group at the fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also allocated on a straight line basis over the lease term.
iii Hydro civil assets The Group is obliged under the Reservoirs Act 1975 to maintain its hydro infrastructure network, including its dams, tunnels and other hydro civil engineering structures hydro civil assets.
All items of property, plant and equipment within hydro civil assets, with the exception of land, are subject to depreciation.
In accordance with the transition provisions of IFRS 1, the Group identified the carrying value of these assets at privatisation and has treated this value as deemed cost.
Following this assessment, the assets, and all subsequent enhancement and replacement expenditure, has been subject to depreciation over a useful economic life of 100 years.
All subsequent maintenance expenditure is chargeable directly to the income statement.
iv Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement to write off cost, less residual values, on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset.
Depreciation policy, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at least annually, for all asset classes to ensure that the current method is the most appropriate.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Years Hydro civil assets 100 Wind generation assets 25 Power stations 20 to 60 Overhead lines, underground cables and other network assets 40 to 80 Gas storage facilities 25 to 50 Other transmission and distribution buildings, plant and equipment 10 to 45 Shop refurbishment, fixtures, equipment, vehicles and mobile plant 3 to 10 Heritable and freehold land is not depreciated.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
v Subsequent expenditure Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property, plant and equipment that is accounted for separately is capitalised.
Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits of the item of property, plant and equipment to which it relates.
It is the Group policy to capitalise qualifying replacement expenditure and depreciate it over the expected useful life of the replaced asset.
Replaced assets are derecognised at this point.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment is replaced and it is not practicable to determine the carrying amount of the replaced part, the cost of the replacement adjusted for inflation will be used as an approximation of the cost of the replaced part at the time it was acquired or constructed.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 65 Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for under the purchase method.
The acquired business is measured at the date of acquisition as the aggregate fair value of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities as required under IFRS 3 Business Combinations excluding non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held-for-sale, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the acquired business is represented as goodwill.
Intangible assets i Goodwill Goodwill arising on a business combination represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and is reviewed for impairment at least on an annual basis.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as a charge in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
From 1 April 1998 to 31 March 2004, any purchased goodwill was capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis to the income statement.
This was normally over a period of up to 20 years from the date of acquisition, with the exception of goodwill relating to the acquisitions of the Hornsea and Neos businesses, which were amortised over a period of 30 years and 10 years respectively.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions purchased prior to 1 April 1998 was written-off to reserves in accordance with the accounting standard then in force.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 April 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of deemed cost which represents the carrying amount at 1 April 2004.
The goodwill amortised between 1 April 2004 and 31 March 2005 was reinstated.
On disposal or closure of a previously acquired business, any attributable goodwill will be included in determining the profit or loss on disposal, with the exception of any goodwill written off prior to 1 April 1998. ii Research and development Expenditure on research activities is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products or processes, is capitalised if the product or process is considered to be technically and commercially feasible and the Group intends to complete the intangible asset for use or for sale.
iii Allowances and emissions The European Emissions trading scheme EU ETS has been in operation since 1 January 2005.
The IASB withdrew IFRIC 3 Emission Rights in June 2005 and it has not been replaced with definitive guidance or interpretation for carbon emissions trading.
The Group recognises carbon allowances granted as a current intangible asset at fair value at the date of grant and as deferred income and does not subsequently re-value the intangible asset.
Carbon emissions liabilities incurred are recorded as a current liability.
Carbon allowances purchased are recorded at cost.
Up to the level of allowances held the liability is measured at the cost of purchased or granted allowances held.
When carbon emissions liabilities exceed the carbon allowances held, the net liability is measured at the market price of allowances.
Forward carbon contracts are measured at fair value with gains or losses arising on re-measurement being recognised in the income statement.
The intangible asset is surrendered at the end of the compliance period reflecting the consumption of the economic benefit and is fide-recognised at its original value.
As a result, no amortisation is booked but an impairment charge may be recognised should the carrying value exceed market value.
The Renewable Obligations Certificates ROCs scheme is administered and accounted for in a similar but not identical manner to the European Emissions trading scheme.
ROCs obtained from own generation are awarded by Ofgem.
Self-generated ROCs are recorded at market value and purchased ROCs are recognised at cost, both within intangible assets.
The liability under the renewables obligation is recognised based on electricity supplied to customers, the percentages set by Ofgem and the prevailing market price.
iv Development wind assets Costs capitalised as development wind intangibles represent the costs incurred in bringing individual wind farm projects to the consented stage.
Costs associated with reaching the consent stage include options over land rights, planning application costs and environmental impact studies.
These may be costs incurred directly or as part of the fair value exercise on acquisition of a controlling interest in a project.
Development wind assets are not amortised until the asset is substantially complete and ready for its intended use.
The asset is subject to impairment testing on an annual basis until this time.
At the time the project is confirmed, the carrying value of the project is transferred to property, plant and equipment as assets under construction.
Amortisation is over the expected useful life of the related operational asset.
The asset is derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from their use.
v Other intangible assets Other intangible assets that have been acquired by the Group, including the Atlantic brand, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Software licenses are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Expenditure on internally generated brands is expensed as incurred.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of these other intangible assets.
The amortisation periods utilised are as follows: Years Brand values 10 Application software licences 5 Customer lists 5 Contracts Shorter of contract term or 5 Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 05 Notes on the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued 66 1.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Accounting policies continued Impairment testing The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than inventories or deferred tax assets, are reviewed each financial year to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If there is evidence of impairment, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated to determine the extent of any such impairment.
For goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite life or not ready for use, the test for impairment is carried out annually.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Value in use is based on projected cash flows which are discounted for risks and the time value of money.
Where the cash flows of the asset under review cannot be assessed independently from other assets, the Group estimates to which cash-generating unit CGU the asset belongs.
Once established, the discounted projected cash flows of the asset or CGU are calculated and measured against the carrying amount of the asset or CGU.
Where the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount an impairment charge is recognised.
Inventories and work in progress Inventories are valued at the lower of cost on a first-in, first-out basis and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
The cost of fuel stocks is based on the weighted average principle.
The valuation of work in progress is based on the cost of labour, the cost of contractors, the cost of materials plus appropriate overheads.
Recognition of revenue and profit on construction contracts Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured as the proportion of cost incurred on work performed to date compared to the estimated total contract cost, except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have been agreed with the customer.
When it becomes probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately in the income statement.
Employee benefit obligations i Defined benefit pension schemes The Group operates two defined benefit pension schemes, one of which is operated by the Company.
Pension scheme assets are measured using bid market values.
Pension scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit credit actuarial method and are discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
Any increase in the present value of liabilities within the Groups defined benefit pension schemes expected to arise from employee service in the year is charged as service costs to operating profit.
The expected return on the schemes assets and the increase during the year in the present value of the schemes liabilities arising from the passage of time are included in finance income and finance costs, respectively.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
Pension scheme surpluses, to the extent that they are considered recoverable, or deficits are recognised in full and presented on the face of the balance sheet.
ii Defined contribution pension schemes The Group also operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
The amounts charged represent the contributions payable to the schemes in the year and are charged directly to the income statement.
iii Equity and equity-related compensation benefits Following the transitional provisions of IFRS 1, the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments have been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as at 1 January 2005.
The Group operates a number of employee share schemes as described in the Remuneration Report and note 27.
These schemes enable Group employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The exercise prices of the sharesave scheme are set at a discount to market price at the date of the grant.
The fair value of the sharesave scheme option granted is measured at the grant date by use of a Black-Scholes model.
The fair value of the options granted is recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the period that the scheme vests.
Estimates are updated for non-market conditions at each balance sheet date with any adjustment in respect of the current and prior years being recognised in the income statement.
The costs associated with the other main employee schemes are recognised over the period to which they relate.
The change related to the equity shares in the Company awarded under the share schemes is treated as in increase in the cost of investment held by the Company in the subsidiary companies in the Group.
Financial instruments The Group uses a range of financial instruments to hedge exposures to financial risks, such as interest rate, foreign exchange and energy price fluctuations in its normal course of business and in accordance with the Groups risk management policies.
The Groups risk management policies are further explained in note 28.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 67 Accounting policies under IAS 32 and 39 i Interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives Financial derivative instruments are used by the Group to hedge interest rate and currency exposures.
All such derivatives are recognised at fair value and are re-measured to fair value each reporting period.
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as being held for hedging purposes.
The designation of the hedge relationship is established at the inception of the contract and procedures are applied to ensure the derivative is highly effective in achieving its objective and that the effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured.
The treatment of gains and losses on re-measurement is dependent on the classification of the hedge and whether the hedge relationship is designated as either a fair value or cash flow hedge.
Derivatives that are not designated as hedges are treated as if held for trading, with all fair value movements attributable to the risk being hedged being recorded through the income statement.
A derivative classified as a fair value hedge recognises gains and losses from re-measurement immediately in the income statement.
Loans and borrowings are measured at cost except where they form the underlying transaction in an effective fair value hedge relationship.
In such cases, the carrying value of the loan or borrowing is adjusted to reflect fair value movements with the gain or loss being reported in the income statement.
A derivative classified as a cash flow hedge recognises the portion of gains or losses on the derivative which are deemed to be effective directly in equity in the hedge reserve.
Any ineffective portion of the gains or losses is recognised in the Income Statement.
The gains or losses that are recognised directly in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At the point of discontinuation, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity remains in equity until the forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
On settlement, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement.
ii Commodity derivatives Within its regular course of business, the Group routinely enters into sale and purchase derivative contracts for commodities such as electricity, gas, coal and oil.
Where the contract was entered into and continues to be held for the purpose of receipt or delivery in accordance with the Groups expected sale, purchase or usage requirements, the contracts are designated as own use contracts and are measured at cost.
These contracts are not within the scope of IAS 39.
Derivative commodity contracts which are not designated as own use contracts are accounted for as trading derivatives and are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.
Where a hedge accounting relationship is designated and is proven to be effective, the changes in fair value will be recognised in accordance with the rules noted in part i to this note.
Other commodity contracts, where own use is not established and a hedge accounting relationship is not designated, are measured at fair value with gains and losses on re-measurement being recognised in the income statement in cost of sales.
iii Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives where the characteristics of the derivatives are not closely related to those of the host contracts.
iv Net investment hedges Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity, any gain or loss on the ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised in the income statement.
On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of any gains or losses recognised directly in equity is transferred to the income statement.
v Convertible bond The Group has issued a convertible bond which represents debt that can be converted to share capital at the option of the holder, where the number of shares issued does not vary with changes in their fair value.
This is accounted for as a compound financial instrument, net of transaction costs.
The equity component of the convertible bond is calculated as the excess of the issue proceeds over the present value of the future interest and principal payments, discounted at the market rate of interest applicable to similar liabilities that do not have a conversion option.
The interest expense recognised in the income statement is calculated using the effective interest method.
vi Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
vii Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are measured at cost less an appropriate allowance for irrecoverable receivables.
viii Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All such loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value including transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, except where the loan or borrowing is the hedged item in an effective fair value hedge relationship.
ix Share capital Ordinary shares are accounted for as equity.
Costs associated with the issue of new shares are deducted from the proceeds of issue.
