Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 02 Business Statement Energy-Related Services continued 28 9.
Contracting, Connections and Metering continued 10.
Energy and Home Services Demand Reduction Project, under which Metering Priorities in 2008 09 and Beyond solar thermal systems, solar photovoltaic almost 30,000 SSE customers will be taking For Metering, the key priority is the successful systems and ground-source heat pumps.
These include completion of the in-sourcing of work in SSEs Energy Services division operates and around 8,000 customers receiving state-ofsouth-east and south-west England and maintains site-wide energy infrastructures the-art smart meters.
Ultimately, smart central and southern Scotland.
This will be of this kind that improve environmental meters will allow energy suppliers to another key milestone in SSEs long-term performance over conventional alternatives.
communicate directly with their customers, objective of building a national metering remove the need for meter readings and business.
It is also important that SSEs In addition, business customers of SSE ensure entirely accurate bills with no participation in the Energy Demand Research now have over 50MW of on-site installed estimates, helping customers to reduce Project, with its focus on smart metering Combined Head and Power CHP generation their consumption of energy.
The results technologies, is successful, and during capacity, generating heat and power in a of the trials will provide evidence to support 2008 09 SSE expects to install around single process.
Current developments the future roll-out of smart electricity and 8,000 smart meters as part of it.
include The Warren, in south-east London, gas meters.
where Berkeley Homes Group is building ENERGY AND HOME SERVICES 460 apartments, a nursery unit, primary The first smart meters were installed in care trust and commercial units.
Although some k 115,000 new gas boiler and telecoms the Energy Services Company ESCO other high volume roll-outs have occurred customers, taking total to 235,000 Agreement, SSE is responsible for designing elsewhere in the world, none has attempted k Product portfolio enhanced with and installing an energy centre, including such a level of complexity, using this level of electrical wiring service a CHP plant.
SSE will also undertake all leading-edge technology.
Customers involved associated heat, electricity and gas in this trial will be able to manage gas and Introduction to Energy and Home Services infrastructure, metering and billing electricity usage through a mixture of The UK energy market is still focused on customer services, long-term operations in-home remote displays, graphs on bills the delivery of units of energy but a market and maintenance services and all fuel and website information.
is beginning to emerge for the supply of procurement requirements.
energy services warmth, light and power.
In March 2008, SSE invested 1m in Onzo SSEs goal is to deliver products and services SSEs main contractor on this development Limited, in return for a 24.5% share of the which go beyond the meter, helping it to is Vital Energi Utilities Ltd, and in October business.
Onzo is a newly-established gain, retain and develop long-term 2007 SSE entered into an agreement to data systems development business, relationships with customers.
invest 6m for a 30% share of the business.
with specific intellectual property relating Vital Energi specialises in the design, supply to the development of display devices More fundamentally, over time, a new model and installation of CHP and District Heating that support smart metering systems.
is likely to be created whereby homes and systems in the commercial, industrial and The devices provide real-time information other buildings are developed and designed residential sectors.
about energy consumption and have the so they need as little energy as possible.
potential to provide data down to the Energy services and SSEs related SSEs home services team offers a range individual appliance level.
investments in emerging technologies of maintenance and protection services for are about preparing for that new model.
customers gas and electrical systems and In this context, SSE welcomed the decision a full range of gas and electrical installation by the UK government to include within the Energy Services Performance During services.
Its shield gas boiler, central Energy Bill broad enabling powers to support 2007 08 heating and wiring protection service is a national roll-out of smart meters.
These Customers are increasingly interested in now almost two years old and had already powers should allow a detailed framework for managing their own energy use and SSE attracted 70,000 customers by the end of a roll-out to be developed and implemented provides bespoke energy solutions featuring March 2008. over the next decade.
on-site or off-site dedicated wind turbines, This growth is expected to continue and the number of postcode areas covered by the service has now reached 43, with a further five postcode areas due to be added in 2008 09.
The home services offered by SSE also include the talk with telecoms service, which now has 165,000 customers and is profitable.
We strive to get better and smarter and One leading industry commentator recently SSE and BT have entered into a partnership more innovative because we want to be told a group of SSE people that innovation that sees BT become the provider of the best in everything we do.
That means is a great opportunity, a great challenge integrated voice and broadband services constantly looking for new ideas to and great fun.
To encourage it, we have a to SSE for resale to its UK customers.
Under improve products, processes and services Licence to Innovate LTI scheme, whereby the terms of the three-year agreement, and finding better ways of working people are able to research, review, trial BT Wholesale will support SSEs plans to all for the benefit of customers.
and explore their ideas knowing they have become a high quality, national provider of the full support of the Chief Executive.
The service is expected to launch this summer.
During 2007 08, 24 LTIs were successfully completed each improving a product, Energy Services Priorities in 2008 09 process or service.
These innovations, and Beyond and improvements delivered throughout The market for these home and other energy the organisation every day, all contribute services is evolving, but it is one in which to the culture of innovation and excellence rapid change is likely as for example which we believe to be a hallmark of SSE.
demand for lowand zero-carbon homes grows.
As the needs of customers become
