Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 02 Business Statement Energy-Related Services 26 8.
Contracting, Connections and Metering OVERVIEW engineering: and public and highway lighting.
Newcastle City and North Tyneside Councils.
In addition to being involved in Generation, Now employing over 4,000 people, it is one These contracts all have over 20 years to Supply and Networks, SSE also provides an of the largest mechanical and electrical run and, when combined with the contracts additional range of other energy-related contracting businesses in the UK.
It operates acquired via Seeboard Trading Limited, mean services which complement its other from 64 regional offices throughout Great SSEs interests in PFI contracts extends to businesses: Contracting, Connections and Britain and also trades as SWALEC 300,000 lighting columns.
Metering: Energy and Home Services: and Contracting in Wales and Scottish Hydro Gas Storage.
These are important services, Contracting in Scotland.
In addition to the PFI replacement and on which customers depend, so that their maintenance contracts, SSE has contracts increasingly complex energy requirements Contracting Performance During 2007 08 with 22 local authorities in England, Wales can be met.
SEC made significant progress against its key and Scotland to maintain over one million priorities for the year of broadening further street lights.
It is the largest street lighting CONTRACTING, CONNECTIONS its geographical presence and ensuring contractor in the UK, and in 2007 08 secured AND METERING there continues to be good performance in its first-ever contract in north-west England, the long-term contracts which are central with St Helens Council.
k Operating profit up 7.8% to 55.6m to its ongoing business development.
k Coverage of Contracting business During 2007 08 SECs order book exceeded extended, now with 64 branches For a nominal consideration, it acquired Hills 100m for the first time.
The order book nationwide Electrical and Mechanical plc, a business has been supported by significant contract k Acquisition of three additional street with an annual turnover of 45m operating wins with a number of leading organisations lighting PFI contracts in all parts of the UK.
The acquisition such as National Air Traffic Service NATS k Further expansion of out-of-area complements SECs existing businesses and the VT Group.
To support future growth, electricity networks, with 45 in operation whilst strengthening its position as a leading SEC is developing the services it offers to or under construction mechanical and electrical contractor.
It customers, and during 2007 08 it launched a k Premises connected to SSE gas expands SECs number of branch offices new business area for solar and photovoltaic pipelines now above 50,000 from 57 to 64, and provides it with a national products.
It also recruited almost 200 k First new water and sewerage company business supporting the retail sector.
apprentice electricians during the year since privatisation and expects to recruit more apprentices k Completion of in-sourcing of Metering SEC also acquired Seeboard Trading Limited, during 2008 09. work in three areas of the UK which finances and operates street lighting k Installation of smart meters under way maintenance and replacement projects for Contracting Priorities in 2008 09 and Beyond via Energy Demand Reduction Trial three local authorities under the Private The first priority for SEC in 2008 09 is to Finance Initiative PFI.
The three local ensure that it delivers a high standard of Overview authorities are the London Borough of service to all customers in all of the sectors Contracting, Connections and Metering Islington, the London Borough of Ealing in which it operates, given such a major delivered operating profit of 55.6m during and Dorset County Council.
The projects proportion of its business is repeat.
It will 2007 08, compared with 51.6m in the cover around 90,000 street lighting columns also seek to complete the integration previous year.
and they all have at least 20 years to run.
of businesses acquired during 2007 08 and secure further increases in its order Introduction to Contracting In partnership with the asset finance division book, with a growing focus on emerging SSEs Contracting business, Southern of The Royal Bank of Scotland, SEC already technologies and renewable energy Electric Contracting SEC, has three main has PFI contracts to replace and maintain installation capability.
In line with this, a trial areas of activity: industrial, commercial around 210,000 street lighting columns for will be launched to promote the installation and domestic mechanical and electrical four local authorities in England: Stoke on of solar and photovoltaic products on to contracting: electrical and instrumentation Trent City Council: Leeds City Council: and domestic rooftops.
To position itself for long-term growth, it expects to recruit more apprentices.
That long-term growth should result, over the next few years, in SECs operations being further extended throughout Great Britain and, over time, Ireland.
Introduction to Connections SSEs national Connections business provides We aim to operate ethically, taking As fossil fuels deplete and as the evidence electricity, gas and water connections and the long-term view to achieve growth about their impact on the earths climate designs, finances, builds, owns and operates while safeguarding the environment.
grows, the need to generate more electricity gas, electricity and telecommunications That is why we actively support ways from renewable sources is going to become networks throughout the country.
of changing the way in which energy even stronger.
The days of meeting an is produced and consumed.
unchecked demand for energy through Connections Performance During 2007 08 monolithic carbon-intensive power Electricity stations are coming to an end.
Continued expansion of its Connections business was among SSEs priorities for We own and operate over 2,000MW of 2007 08.
During the year it completed 42,800 renewable electricity generation capacity electrical connections, compared with and aim to double this over the next five 44,600 in the previous year.
years through a major investment programme.
We believe this major In addition, it has continued to develop its commitment is right for shareholders, portfolio of electricity networks outside the customers and the environment.
Southern Electric and Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution areas.
