Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 02 Business Statement Networks 22 4.
Electricity Networks OVERVIEW reliable, well-run networks with good secure increased revenue from them.
service at reasonable prices amid growing Constructive engagement with the regulator, k Energy Networks operating profit investment challenges faced by the energy Ofgem, during the various Price Control of 544.4m, compared with 471.1m networks in the future.
Ofgem has stated Reviews, is central to this objective.
in the previous year that the range of possible recommendations emerging from the review runs from no ELECTRICITY NETWORKS Networks Introduction change to substantial change, and that SSE owns Southern Electric Power where change is recommended, there will be k Power Systems operating profit Distribution, Scottish Hydro Electric full consultation.
Because the review will not of 382.9m, up from 368.0m in Power Distribution and Scottish Hydro report until 2010, and because any proposed the previous year Electric Transmission.
Under the current changes will be subject to consultation, work k Investment in electricity networks arrangements, these companies are the on the Distribution Price Control Review for up 29% to 264.4m subject of incentive-based regulation by the 2010-15 is expected to be unaffected.
k Additional revenue of 16m earned Office of Gas and Electricity Markets Ofgem, under Ofgems Quality of Service which sets for periods of five years the indexAfter electricity and gas, Telecoms is SSEs and other incentive schemes linked prices they can charge for the use of third networks business: unlike the other two, k Beauly-Denny Public Inquiry their electricity networks, their capital it is not the subject of economic regulation.
completed in February 2008 expenditure and their allowed operating It operates a national telecoms network for expenditure, within a framework known as commercial and public sector customers Southern Electric Power Distribution the Price Control.
Ofgem also places specific which extends to around 8,000km throughout Southern Electric Power Distributions incentives on companies to improve their Great Britain.
operating profit increased by 3.9%, from efficiency and quality of service.
During the year, it Energy Systems Performance Overview distributed 34.2 terrawatt-hours TWh Overall, Ofgem seeks to strike the right Operating profit in Energy Systems, including of electricity, compared with 33.9TWh in balance between attracting investment in gas distribution, increased from 471.1m to the previous year.
The positive impact on electricity and gas networks, encouraging 544.4m, contributing 39.4% of SSEs total profitability of this increase in the number companies to operate them as efficiently as operating profit.
of units distributed was supplemented possible and ensuring that prices ultimately by changes in their price.
borne by customers are no higher than they The amount of electricity transmitted and need to be.
In electricity, the current distributed through SSEs networks and the Ensuring the reliability of the electricity Distribution Price Control runs until 31 March amount of gas distributed through SGNs networks it owns and operates is one of 2010 and the current Transmission Price networks is determined by the weather, by SSEs main priorities and the key measures Control runs until 31 March 2012. customers demand for energy and by the of reliability are customer minutes lost and availability of the networks themselves.
The average number As at 31 March 2008, SSE estimates that Variations in the volume of energy distributed of minutes that customers in the Southern Ofgems valuation of the assets of its have an impact on the income earned by Electric Power Distribution area were electricity distribution and transmission SSEs energy systems businesses.
without supply during the year was 67, businesses, the Regulated Asset Value RAV, compared with 72 in the previous year: was 2.7bn, based on Ofgems methodology, During 2007 08, Southern Electric Power and the number of supply interruptions including just over 300m for transmission.
Distribution, Scottish Hydro Electric per 100 customers was 66, compared On this basis, SSE is the UKs third largest Power Distribution, Scottish Hydro Electric with 75 in the previous year.
Transmission and SGN all distributed more units of energy than in the previous year, Performance in respect of both minutes lost SSE also has an equity interest of 50% in, which was marked by unusually high and interruptions was ahead of the targets and provides corporate and management temperatures.
set by Ofgem under its Quality of Service services to, Scotia Gas Networks SGN, Incentive Scheme QSIS, which gives which owns Southern Gas Networks and If, in any year, regulated energy networks financial benefits to distribution network Scotland Gas Networks.
These companies companies revenue is greater over recovery operators that deliver good performance own and operate the medium and low or lower under recovery than is allowed for customers.
This, together with income pressure gas distribution networks in their under the relevant Price Control, the earned during 2007 08 under other incentive areas of the UK.
They are the subject of difference is carried forward and the arrangements, is expected to lead to SSE incentive-based regulation similar to that subsequent prices the companies may receiving additional revenue totalling 10.5m which applies in electricity.
A new Price charge are adjusted.
during the next two financial years.
Control for the five years to 31 March 2013 came into effect on 1 April 2008.
Power Systems Objectives Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution SSEs objective in power systems is to and Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission SGN estimates that the RAV of the networks ensure that they are managed as efficiently Operating profit for Scottish Hydro Electric it owns was around 3.5bn, based on as possible, including maintaining tight Power Distribution and Scottish Hydro Ofgems methodology, as at 31 March 2008. controls over operational expenditure and Electric Transmission increased by 4.3%, This makes it the UKs second largest gas delivering effective capital expenditure, from 144.0m to 150.2m.
In the Scottish distribution company.
SSEs share of this so that the number and duration of power Hydro Electric area, 8.8TWh of electricity RAV is 1.75bn which, when added to its cuts experienced by customers is kept were distributed during the year, compared electricity network businesses, gives SSE to a minimum.
with 8.5TWh distributed in the previous year.
As in the Southern Electric area, the positive Through good performance in areas such impact on profitability of this increase in In March 2008, Ofgem announced plans to as customer service and innovation, SSE the number of units distributed was review the 20-year old regime governing the seeks to earn additional incentive-based supplemented by changes in their price.
regulation of electricity and gas networks.
revenue under the various Ofgem-sponsored The review will examine whether the current schemes.
Over time, its objective is to grow The average number of minutes that approach will continue to deliver customers the RAV of the networks businesses and customers were without supply during the Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 23 year was 72, compared with 77 in the previous year.
The number of supply interruptions per 100 customers was 69, 4.23 4.06 compared with 79 in the previous year.
Performance in respect of both minutes lost and interruptions was ahead of Ofgems QSIS targets.
This, together with income earned in 2007 08 under other incentive arrangements is expected to lead to SSE 2.46 2.40 receiving additional revenue of 5.5m during the next two financial years.
Electricity Network Investment and RAV Growth The key responsibility of SSEs electricity networks businesses is to maintain safe and reliable supplies of electricity and to restore supplies as quickly as possible in the event of interruptions.
The Distribution Price Control Review for 2005-10 resulted in substantially 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 increased allowances for capital expenditure to maintain and improve the networks investment.
In line with this, SSE expects performance.
This will enable SSE to to invest almost 300m in its electricity increase its revenue from its networks, The Regulated Asset Value networks in 2008 09. and the efficient delivery of this enhanced is Ofgems valuation of SSEs investment programme was one of SSEs electricity and gas network Future Transmission Developments priorities for 2007 08. assets equity share.
As the licensed transmission company for the north of Scotland, SSE is required During the year, SSEs capital expenditure on to ensure there is sufficient network capacity electricity networks was 264.4m, compared for those seeking to generate electricity from with 204.5m in the previous year.
In January 2008, the Scottish Government designated electricity The most significant electricity distribution 4.45bn network reinforcement to support renewable project being undertaken by SSE is the energy development as one of nine proposed construction of two new underground cable National Developments in the draft second 132kV circuits from Bramley to Basingstoke National Planning Framework.
Designation any need for new overhead line routes to in Hampshire, designed to ensure the as National Developments in the Framework increase the capability for renewable energy electricity network can meet maximum establishes these projects as being in the capacity in the north of Scotland to over demand for 650,000 customers served by national interest.
6 gigawatts GW, compared with around the Bramley and Fleet grid supply points.
The 10km route includes 4km of urban SSE believes the project to replace the roads, directional drills under rural water electricity transmission line connecting SSE has undertaken a public consultation courses and large open cut crossings Beauly in the Highlands with Denny in the exercise on its draft proposals for the through the main railway line cutting in Central Belt of Scotland is in line with its possible development of a new high voltage Basingstoke.
It also requires development responsibilities as a licensed transmission electricity transmission cable capable of work at two substations.
The total cost of company and is also in the national interest.
accommodating power from wind farms the project is over 16m and it is on course A year-long Public Inquiry into the project on Shetland and connecting it to the for completion before the end of this year.
The existing mainland transmission network Scottish Minister for Enterprise, Energy and at Blackhillock in Moray.
The most significant electricity transmission Tourism stated in the Scottish Parliament project on which work is actually getting in September 2007 that Ministers do not The Scottish Government is exploring under way is the Inverarnan substation, expect to receive the report of the Inquiry subsea electricity network options through which will provide 200MW additional export until late 2008 and that a determination is two offshore transmission studies: the capacity for electricity generated from unlikely before early 2009.
It is now likely Irish Scottish Links on Energy Study and renewable sources in Argyll.
This is a joint that the construction of SSEs share of the the North Sea Energy Grid.
Before its project with Scottish Power Transmission.
replacement line will require investment acquisition by SSE, Airtricity was an early SSEs investment is around 12m.
advocate of proposals to develop a European offshore grid to facilitate the export of Since the start of the current Distribution As the UK Business Council for Sustainable renewable energy.
SSE is well-placed to Price Control in April 2005, SSE has invested Energy said in its paper on implementing contribute to the development of new grid 556m in its distribution networks which the EU renewable energy target in the UK, options and will continue to work on them excludes metering and a further 88m in the consenting and completion of the with Scottish Ministers and officials and its transmission network.
It estimates that Beauly-Denny rebuild is essential to other stakeholders.
the RAV of its distribution and transmission releasing the upgrade potential of the businesses is now 2.7bn.
The expected existing Scottish transmission system.
In September 2007, the European total growth in the RAV over the whole of the By rebuilding the weakest part of a north Commission published its third package 2005-10 Distribution Price Control period, of Scotland transmission ring, it will allow of proposals to further liberalise the EUs based on Ofgems methodology, is forecast the other elements to that ring to be energy market.
The package includes to be almost 500m, taking it to around 3bn re-conductored and re-insulated avoiding options for electricity and gas transmission in 2010.
This excludes any major transmission
