Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 02 Business Statement Networks continued 24 5.
Gas Networks networks: the full ownership unbundling of will be growth in renewable and small-scale Scotia Gas Networks Financial transmission from production and supply in distributed generation, which could see SGN, in which SSE holds 50% of the equity, both electricity and gas: or the designation much more generation connecting directly owns and operates the Scotland and the of an independent system operator ISO that to the distribution, as opposed to the Southern gas distribution networks.
The would operate, maintain and develop the transmission, network.
networks comprise around 74,000km of gas networks, which would make it possible for mains, delivering gas to around 5.7 million existing  companies to During 2008 09, important questions will industrial, commercial and domestic retain network ownership.
SSE believes that be asked about the reliability of the UKs customers.
SSE receives 50% of the the ISO model in Great Britain has worked electricity networks and their fitness for distributable earnings from SGN, in line well and could be successfully replicated purpose in the context of the need to with its equity holding, and also provides elsewhere in the EU.
Discussions on this accommodate output from renewable energy it with corporate and management services.
issue are continuing, with a view to EU schemes.
Key priorities for SSE during the governments reaching agreement on year will include the efficient delivery of the SSEs share of SGNs adjusted operating a way forward later this year.
next phase of the major programme of profit was 161.5m during 2007 08, investment in the networks.
This will be compared with 103.1m in the previous Electricity Distribution and Transmission targeted at upgrading them so as to benefit year.
This reflects an increase in the volume Priorities in 2008 09 and Beyond the greatest number of customers.
It will also of gas transported, changes in prices for During 2008 09, and beyond, SSEs first undertake work in advance of what is hoped transporting gas following the underobjective in electricity distribution and to be a successful outcome from the Public recovery of revenue in 2006 07 and transmission will be to maintain safe and Inquiry into the Beauly-Denny transmission greater efficiencies yielding a reduction reliable supplies of power and to restore line proposal.
In total, SSE currently expects in operating costs.
supplies as quickly as possible in the event to invest around 1.75bn in its electricity of interruptions, so performance in terms networks over the next five years.
Around 23% of SGNs operating profit was of customer minutes lost and customer derived from the non-regulated activities of interruptions will continue to be critical.
Longer-term, Ofgems review of the its contracting, connections and commercial regulatory regime for energy networks, services divisions, and these continued to This will be supported by delivery of with its focus on the growing investment perform well.
continuous improvement initiatives, following challenges, the implications of greater the implementation of a review of internal distributed generation, customer service Scotia Gas Networks Operational processes and customer-facing operations and cutting the regulatory burden represent During 2007 08, the gas transportation that took place during 2007 08.
Ofgem has an opportunity to build on the strengths of volume for SGNs network in Scotland was already stated that encouraging electricity the existing system which SSE, operating at 59.5TWh and for its Southern network the distribution companies to be more responsive the efficiency frontier in electricity networks, volume was 110TWh.
This compares with to the needs of customers will be amongst its should be able to influence and capitalise on.
57TWh and 105TWh respectively in the key priorities for the forthcoming Distribution previous year.
GAS NETWORKS SGNs objective is to be at the frontier Over the next year, detailed work will begin k Share of SGNs adjusted operating of safety, customer service and efficiency on the Review, where Ofgems other key profit up from 103.1m to 161.5m in gas distribution.
In September 2007, priorities include giving companies strong k SGN capital expenditure up 49% to Ofgem published a comparison of incentives to help tackle climate change 179.8m and replacement expenditure efficiency rankings in which Scotland Gas and delivering good value for consumers up 14% to 199.2m Networks was ranked the second most by ensuring that companies provide secure k Improved efficiency ranking efficient of the eight distribution networks and more sustainable networks.
Ofgem k Agreement on Gas Distribution and Southern Gas Networks the third.
This also pointed out that it is likely that there Price Control 2008-13 compares with seventh and sixth respectively when the two networks were acquired by SGN in 2005.
In March 2008, the number of lost-time injuries in SGN fell to 0.15 per 100,000 hours What is Efficiency?
worked, compared with 0.21 in March 2007.
The focus on customer service helped SGN deliver a reduction in the number of We keep things simple, do the work that That means keeping the number and complaints about it sent to energywatch adds value and avoid wasting money, length of power cuts to a minimum.
During for resolution of 67%, to 25.
The introduction materials, energy or time.
This is vital 2007 08 the number of power cuts per of new front office management systems, when it comes to delivering electricity to 100 customers was 66 in southern England reducing the total number of systems peoples homes, offices and businesses.
The average from over 50 to 11, has been successfully We must maintain reliable power supplies number of minutes of lost electricity supply completed.
This means SGN now has in the most efficient way possible.
per customer was 67 in southern England free-standing systems which are capable and 72 in northern Scotland.
of supporting more efficient deployment of resources.
When SGN acquired its networks Our regulator, Ofgem, will be reviewing the in June 2005, National Grid was contracted price framework for electricity distribution to provide it with services with a total value between 2010 and 2015.
The priority will of over 40m.
Over the last three years, continue to be efficiency: delivering good many of these services have been brought value for customers by ensuring we within SGN and another major contract will provide secure networks demonstrating end when SGNs gas network System efficiency day-in, day-out.
Control goes live in two phases, starting later this year.
