Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 03 Directors Report continued 40 The Chief Executive regularly communicates The company is not aware of any agreements with employees through his blog and receives between shareholders that may result in feedback, in addition to live on-screen restrictions on the transfer of securities question and answer style webchats.
During the year, the senior management held a series of roadshows around the The rules governing the appointment Group to present and discuss the Groups of Directors is set out in the Corporate vision, values and strategy.
Governance Report on pages 41 to 47.
The companys Articles of Association may The company has in place an extensive only be amended by a special resolution range of policies to safeguard the interests at a general meeting of shareholders.
of its employees and potential employees.
In particular, its equal opportunities policy The company is not aware of any significant aims to ensure that all employees and job agreements to which it is party that take applicants are no less fairly treated due effect, alter or terminate upon a change of to age, gender, sexual orientation, race, control of the company following a takeover.
disability or other reasons not justified in law or relevant to performing their job.
The The company is not aware of any contractual company also aims to ensure that employees or other agreements which are essential to have the right skills to deliver the high its business which ought to be disclosed in standards of performance that are necessary this Directors Report.
Detailed information about the companys approach to these Auditors and related matters is set out in its Upon the recommendation of the Audit Corporate Responsibility Report 2008 Committee and approval of the Board, see www.
resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors, and to authorise the Directors Creditor Payment Policy to fix their remuneration, will be proposed It is the companys policy that payment terms at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
are agreed at the outset of a transaction and are adhered to: that bills are paid in Each of the Directors who held office at the accordance with the contract: and that there date of approval of this Directors Report are no alterations to payment terms without confirms that, so far as each Director is prior agreement.
The numbers of suppliers aware, there is no relevant audit information days represented by trade creditors was of which the companys Auditors are unaware: 42 days at 31 March 2008. and each Director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a Director Donations to make himself or herself aware of any Charitable donations amounted to 873,000 relevant audit information and to establish 2007 685,000.
There were no payments that the companys Auditors are aware for political purposes.
Financing Policy and Derivatives By Order of the Board The Groups policies together with details of financial instruments and derivatives are Vincent Donnelly set out in notes 1 and 28 to the Financial Company Secretary Statements.
28 May 2008 Additional Information Where not provided elsewhere in the Directors Report, the following provides the additional information required to be disclosed by Part 7 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of the company other than certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by law for example, insider trading law.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, certain employees are required to seek the approval of the company to deal in its shares.
Employees who participate in the Share Incentive Plan whose shares remain in the schemes trust give directions to the trustees to vote on their behalf by way of a Form of Direction.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 03 Corporate Governance Report 41 1.
Organisation and Structure Dear Shareholder The Framework of Corporate Governance k changes to the Groups capital The Board is accountable to the companys structure: and The Boards principal objective is to ensure shareholders for the good conduct of the k key policies.
that the Group delivers its strategy whilst companys affairs.
The following information ensuring that this is carried out within a sets out how the principles contained in the The schedule is reviewed regularly by the sound framework of corporate governance.
Financial Reporting Councils Combined Board and is published on the companys The Board believes that strong corporate Code on Corporate Governance the Code website www.
governance enhances shareholder value are applied by the company.
and this report sets out how the governance Roles of Chairman and Chief Executive framework is implemented across the Group.
Throughout the year the company monitors The roles of the Chairman and the Chief developments in corporate governance best Executive are separate and clearly defined.
David Payne retired at the 2007 Annual practice.
Due regard is also given to the policy General Meeting after nine years of service guidelines of organisations representing The Chairman is responsible for the on the Board.
Davids background in energy major institutional investors.
In addition, operation, leadership and governance of the and perceptive understanding of complex internal procedures are regularly reviewed Board, ensuring that it operates effectively issues made him an outstanding Director.
and updated by the Board and the various whilst providing appropriate challenge to Board committees.
I am pleased that we were able to appoint Richard Gillingwater as a non-Executive Combined Code Compliance During the year, the Chairman met Director in May 2007.
Richard has brought The Board continues to be committed regularly with senior managers.
Although a wealth of experience and knowledge to the to ensuring that the highest standards not a member, he regularly attends the Audit Board having held a number of appointments of corporate governance are maintained.
External engagements in the City of London.
His appointment The Board confirms that the company has, included meetings with analysts and other complements very well the contributions throughout the period under review, representatives of institutional investors, of the other Directors.
After these changes, complied with all provisions set out and he participated in both the interim and the Board continued to have four Executive in Section 1 of the Code.
Biographical Directors and five independent non-Executive information on the Chairman is set out on Directors in addition to myself as Chairman.
Sir Kevin Smith, who joined SSE as a nonRole of the Board The Chief Executive is responsible for the Executive Director in 2004, has decided not The Board is collectively responsible for day to day management of Group business to seek re-election to the Board at this years creating and sustaining shareholder value and the implementation of strategy and Annual General Meeting and will step down through the overall management of the policy as agreed by the Board.
In discharging from it at the conclusion of the Meeting.
Group whilst ensuring that a sound system his responsibilities, the Chief Executive is During his time with us, Kevin has made of internal control and risk management advised and assisted by senior management an invaluable contribution, not least in is in place.
and a number of specific management supporting the work of the Health, Safety committees from throughout the Groups and Environmental Advisory Committee of The Directors are fully briefed in advance businesses.
Biographical information on the the Board.
After Kevin steps down, the Board of Board meetings on all matters to be Chief Executive is set out on page 48. of SSE will comprise four Executive Directors discussed, including regular business and and four non-Executive Directors, in addition financial reports, and they also receive Balance of the Board to myself as Chairman.
copies of analysts and brokers reports The Board consists of five non-Executive on the company.
Directors, in addition to the non-Executive During the year the Board continued to Chairman, Sir Robert Smith, and four visit new and existing operational sites.
The Board receives detailed financial and Executive Directors.
This gives the Board These visits took in the length and breadth operational information to allow it to monitor an appropriate balance of independence and of the country from Glendoe in the North of effectively the performance of the key areas experience, ensuring that no one individual or Scotland, which will be the first large-scale of the business.
It also receives regular group of individuals has undue influence over hydro electric power station in 50 years, to updates on the progress and performance of the Boards decision-making.
The composition new facilities on the South coast of England.
investments and other major decisions made of the Board and its committees is regularly The Directors also met a wide range of by it, together with business reports and reviewed to ensure that this balance and mix stakeholders as well as investors and presentations from senior management.
of skills and experience is maintained.
analysts at the annual and interim results presentations.
Board Decisions Non-Executive Directors A formal schedule of matters is specifically The responsibilities of the non-Executive We have just completed our Board and reserved to the Board for its decision, Directors include to: committee performance evaluation.
The including: evaluation process highlighted some areas k scrutinise, measure and review the where improvements could be made but k Group strategy: performance of management: overall the conclusion was that the Board k annual budget: k assist in the development of strategy: continues to function well.
k approval of interim and final financial k review the financial information: statements: k ensure systems of internal control Sir Robert Smith k significant changes in accounting policy and risk management are appropriate Chairman and practice: and effective: 28 May 2008 k Board and committee appointments k manage the relationship with the external and related governance matters: Auditor: and k major acquisitions, mergers, disposals k review the remuneration of and and capital expenditure: succession planning for the Board.
