Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 25 7.
Telecoms Networks SGN also owns and operates SGN RAV.
By 2013, SGN estimates its RAV will be for a total consideration of 79m, excluding Connections and SGN Contracting.
In line with that, it expects to working capital, at a gain before tax of other things, these businesses carry out work invest around 170m in capital expenditure 55m.
The assets disposed of contributed previously done by contractors and give SGN projects and around 210m in replacement approximately 0.3% of SSEs profit in greater scope to improve the efficiency, and expenditure works during 2008 09.
The disposal reflected SSEs reduce the cost, of the work it carries out.
commitment to complete the refocusing of Scotia Gas Networks Priorities in 2008 09 its telecoms business on network-related, It has also established SGN Metering, and Beyond as opposed to site-related, services.
which is an Ofgem-accredited Meter Asset SSEs priority in gas distribution will continue Manager.
SGN Metering now owns and to be to provide SGN with the corporate and In line with this, in October 2007, SSE manages a portfolio of around 46,000 gas management services to support its ongoing acquired a 1,100km fibre optic network from meters which it has installed in the Southern reform of procedures, processes and practices TeliaSonera International Carrier UK Ltd for and Scotland network areas and it will own which are designed to improve performance a total consideration of 12.5m.
The asset and manage all new meters fitted.
The successful delivery of acquired by SSE comprises a duct containing February 2008, SGN Metering secured a SGNs gas network System Control is a key fibre running between London, Bristol, 15m per annum contact from National Grid priority over the next two years.
Manchester and Leeds plus ten operational Metering to deliver domestic metering work repeater sites.
Included in the acquisition are in the Scotland and Southern areas for up TELECOMS NETWORKS extensions in seven cities around England.
This was followed by a 3m, It provides SSE with owned fibre capacity two-year contract to deliver metering work k Operating profit up 2.9% to 14.3m throughout the UK, together with local in the industrial and commercial sector.
on continuing businesses up 28.4% connectivity that could be integrated into its These contracts provide streams of work to 13.1m existing network.
In December 2007, SSE which can be carried out during the downk Sale of sites assets for 79m total supplemented this with the acquisition of time associated with SGNs emergency work.
consideration 160km of telecom duct network within k Acquisition of additional fibre optic London.
The acquisitions have provided Neos SGNs approach of in-sourcing work and and telecom duct network Networks with one of the most extensive the expansion of its gas network and other wholly-owned telecom duct fibre footprints activities means it now directly employs Introduction to Telecoms in the UK.
3,750 people, compared with 2,000 when After electricity and gas, Telecoms is SSEs it acquired its two distribution networks third networks business.
It combines SSE Neos has upgraded its optical core network in June 2005.
Its three-year pay and Telecom and Neos Networks and operates to enable point-to-point services at up to productivity deal for employees, which an 8,000km UK-wide telecoms network, 40 Gigabits per second and has also started was agreed during 2006 07, has allowed providing services to other telecoms to upgrade its ethernet platform a framethe introduction of more flexible working providers, companies and public sector based technology connecting computer patterns and associated efficiency gains.
This includes 3,240km of fibre systems to form a network to provide These include the removal of restrictive optic cabling which SSE owns: the remainder customers with high speed, scalable and practices and their replacement by a is leased fibre and microwave radio.
flexible connectivity committing a total consistent framework for terms and investment of over 8m to be made over conditions.
Work pattern rotas can now The business offers customers a national five years.
This will support future new be determined by local management, and telecoms network, and has a UK-wide sales business growth.
site start and finish provisions have been force and a competitive range of products introduced to enhance productivity.
targeted at commercial and public sector Telecoms Priorities in 2008 09 and Beyond customers.
As a subsidiary of SSE, it is also SSEs priority in Telecoms in 2008 09 is to Scotia Gas Networks Investment able to position itself as one of the UKs complete the integration of assets acquired During the year, SGN invested 179.8m in most financially secure telecoms network during 2007 08 and to continue to grow capital expenditure projects, compared with operators, which gives an important its sales, using its already-established 120.4m in the previous year.
It also invested competitive advantage.
nationwide network, with its competitive 199.2m in mains and services replacement range of products targeted at commercial expenditure works, compared with 174.8m Telecoms Operations and public sector customers.
Longer-term, in the previous year, under the 30:30 mains SSEs combined Telecoms business achieved its ambition is to become the UKs leading replacement programme which was started an operating profit of 14.3m during 2007 08, alternative telecoms network company.
This requires that all iron gas mains an increase of 2.9% excluding the telecoms within 30 metres of homes and premises site assets disposed of in August 2007, must be replaced over a 30-year period, and operating profit was 13.1m, an underlying in 2007 08, SGN replaced just over 900km increase of 28.4%.
of its metallic gas mains with modern polyethylene pipes.
The improvement in performance during 2007 08 was mainly the result of higher sales Following this investment, SGN estimates achieved by Neos, and important contracts that the RAV of the networks it owns was were signed with a diverse range of major around 3.5bn as at 31 March 2008 which organisations, such as AT&T and Carphone is significantly above their enterprise value Warehouse.
In January 2008, a significant when they were acquired in June 2005. order was received from Zen Internet, one of the leading UK internet service providers.
The Gas Distribution Price Control for 2008-13 provides the opportunity for SGN to increase Telecoms Investment significantly investment in its Scottish and In July 2007, SSE entered into an agreement Southern gas distribution networks, thereby with The Wireless Infrastructure Company reinforcing their safety and reliability and Limited, under which it sold its telecoms securing another significant increase in their sites assets, involving over 220 tower sites,
