Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 02 Business Statement Networks 22 4.
Electricity Networks OVERVIEW reliable, well-run networks with good secure increased revenue from them.
service at reasonable prices amid growing Constructive engagement with the regulator, k Energy Networks operating profit investment challenges faced by the energy Ofgem, during the various Price Control of 544.4m, compared with 471.1m networks in the future.
Ofgem has stated Reviews, is central to this objective.
in the previous year that the range of possible recommendations emerging from the review runs from no ELECTRICITY NETWORKS Networks Introduction change to substantial change, and that SSE owns Southern Electric Power where change is recommended, there will be k Power Systems operating profit Distribution, Scottish Hydro Electric full consultation.
Because the review will not of 382.9m, up from 368.0m in Power Distribution and Scottish Hydro report until 2010, and because any proposed the previous year Electric Transmission.
Under the current changes will be subject to consultation, work k Investment in electricity networks arrangements, these companies are the on the Distribution Price Control Review for up 29% to 264.4m subject of incentive-based regulation by the 2010-15 is expected to be unaffected.
k Additional revenue of 16m earned Office of Gas and Electricity Markets Ofgem, under Ofgems Quality of Service which sets for periods of five years the indexAfter electricity and gas, Telecoms is SSEs and other incentive schemes linked prices they can charge for the use of third networks business: unlike the other two, k Beauly-Denny Public Inquiry their electricity networks, their capital it is not the subject of economic regulation.
completed in February 2008 expenditure and their allowed operating It operates a national telecoms network for expenditure, within a framework known as commercial and public sector customers Southern Electric Power Distribution the Price Control.
Ofgem also places specific which extends to around 8,000km throughout Southern Electric Power Distributions incentives on companies to improve their Great Britain.
operating profit increased by 3.9%, from efficiency and quality of service.
During the year, it Energy Systems Performance Overview distributed 34.2 terrawatt-hours TWh Overall, Ofgem seeks to strike the right Operating profit in Energy Systems, including of electricity, compared with 33.9TWh in balance between attracting investment in gas distribution, increased from 471.1m to the previous year.
The positive impact on electricity and gas networks, encouraging 544.4m, contributing 39.4% of SSEs total profitability of this increase in the number companies to operate them as efficiently as operating profit.
of units distributed was supplemented possible and ensuring that prices ultimately by changes in their price.
borne by customers are no higher than they The amount of electricity transmitted and need to be.
In electricity, the current distributed through SSEs networks and the Ensuring the reliability of the electricity Distribution Price Control runs until 31 March amount of gas distributed through SGNs networks it owns and operates is one of 2010 and the current Transmission Price networks is determined by the weather, by SSEs main priorities and the key measures Control runs until 31 March 2012. customers demand for energy and by the of reliability are customer minutes lost and availability of the networks themselves.
The average number As at 31 March 2008, SSE estimates that Variations in the volume of energy distributed of minutes that customers in the Southern Ofgems valuation of the assets of its have an impact on the income earned by Electric Power Distribution area were electricity distribution and transmission SSEs energy systems businesses.
without supply during the year was 67, businesses, the Regulated Asset Value RAV, compared with 72 in the previous year: was 2.7bn, based on Ofgems methodology, During 2007 08, Southern Electric Power and the number of supply interruptions including just over 300m for transmission.
Distribution, Scottish Hydro Electric per 100 customers was 66, compared On this basis, SSE is the UKs third largest Power Distribution, Scottish Hydro Electric with 75 in the previous year.
Transmission and SGN all distributed more units of energy than in the previous year, Performance in respect of both minutes lost SSE also has an equity interest of 50% in, which was marked by unusually high and interruptions was ahead of the targets and provides corporate and management temperatures.
set by Ofgem under its Quality of Service services to, Scotia Gas Networks SGN, Incentive Scheme QSIS, which gives which owns Southern Gas Networks and If, in any year, regulated energy networks financial benefits to distribution network Scotland Gas Networks.
These companies companies revenue is greater over recovery operators that deliver good performance own and operate the medium and low or lower under recovery than is allowed for customers.
This, together with income pressure gas distribution networks in their under the relevant Price Control, the earned during 2007 08 under other incentive areas of the UK.
They are the subject of difference is carried forward and the arrangements, is expected to lead to SSE incentive-based regulation similar to that subsequent prices the companies may receiving additional revenue totalling 10.5m which applies in electricity.
A new Price charge are adjusted.
during the next two financial years.
Control for the five years to 31 March 2013 came into effect on 1 April 2008.
Power Systems Objectives Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution SSEs objective in power systems is to and Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission SGN estimates that the RAV of the networks ensure that they are managed as efficiently Operating profit for Scottish Hydro Electric it owns was around 3.5bn, based on as possible, including maintaining tight Power Distribution and Scottish Hydro Ofgems methodology, as at 31 March 2008. controls over operational expenditure and Electric Transmission increased by 4.3%, This makes it the UKs second largest gas delivering effective capital expenditure, from 144.0m to 150.2m.
In the Scottish distribution company.
SSEs share of this so that the number and duration of power Hydro Electric area, 8.8TWh of electricity RAV is 1.75bn which, when added to its cuts experienced by customers is kept were distributed during the year, compared electricity network businesses, gives SSE to a minimum.
with 8.5TWh distributed in the previous year.
As in the Southern Electric area, the positive Through good performance in areas such impact on profitability of this increase in In March 2008, Ofgem announced plans to as customer service and innovation, SSE the number of units distributed was review the 20-year old regime governing the seeks to earn additional incentive-based supplemented by changes in their price.
regulation of electricity and gas networks.
revenue under the various Ofgem-sponsored The review will examine whether the current schemes.
Over time, its objective is to grow The average number of minutes that approach will continue to deliver customers the RAV of the networks businesses and customers were without supply during the
