Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 02 Business Statement Generation and Supply 9 1.
Generation OVERVIEW In April 2008, Ofgem launched another The continuing growth achieved by SSEs investigation, into SSE and Scottish Power integrated Generation and Supply business k Operating profit up 12.7% to 724.2m Limited, under section 18 of the Competition is the outcome of the companys investment in Act 1998 and Article 82 of the EC Treaty.
and acquisition of a diverse range of electricity Introduction It said its decision was based on a formal generating assets and a growth of almost SSE owns around 10,500 megawatts MW complaint alleging abuse of an alleged four million in the number of energy supply of electricity generation capacity, including dominant position in the electricity customers over the past six years, following its share of joint ventures and associates.
generation sector at times of constraint its sustained policy of responsible pricing.
This makes it the second largest electricity on the Great Britain transmission system, generator across the UK and Ireland.
as well as informal enquiries.
SSE is GENERATION The capacity comprises almost 4,500MW co-operating fully with Ofgem.
It remains of gasand oil-fired capacity, 4,000MW of confident that its actions in electricity k Gas-fired power station availability 95%: coal-fired capacity with biomass co-firing generation have always been consistent coal station availability 91% capability, and over 2,000MW of renewable with the operation of a competitive market k Acquisition of Airtricity Holdings Ltd hydro, wind and dedicated biomass and believes that this process can be k Acquisition of Slough Heat and Power Ltd capacity.
This gives SSE diversity in fuels brought to a speedy conclusion.
k Operating consented onshore wind farm and, as a result, greater optionality in the capacity passed 1,000MW mark, with overall management of its power stations.
Performance Overview increase of 150MW since January 2008 Operating profit in Generation and Supply k Operating renewable energy capacity As at 31 March 2008, SSE supplied energy to rose by 12.7%, from 642.6m to 724.2m, passed 2,000MW mark 8.45 million customers within Great Britains contributing 52.3% of SSEs total operating k Operating consented renewable energy competitive electricity and gas supply market, profit during the year.
Total revenue for capacity passed 3,000MW mark with growth continuing in the new financial Generation and Supply was 14.26bn, which k New target for operating renewable year.
This makes it the second largest accounted for 89% of SSEs total revenue energy capacity of 4,000MW by 2013 supplier of energy in the UK, and the fastest in 2007 08, of which 5.61bn was in relation k Consent granted for extension to Barking growing.
Its responsibility to those customers to sales of electricity and gas to industrial, Power Ltd is to procure the electricity and gas they need commercial and domestic customers.
k New target adopted to reduce carbon and to arrange for it to be distributed to them The financial performance of Generation intensity of power generated by 50% through the relevant networks.
Under the and Supply has been reported excluding by 2020 British Electricity Trading and Transmission the impact of IAS 39 re-measurements Arrangements BETTA wholesale gas and because SSE does not believe this represents Generation Objectives wholesale electricity are transacted like underlying business performance.
In May 2007, the Energy White Paper any other commodity in a fully-competitive pointed out that the UK will need substantial market.
SSE purchases gas and, where During 2007 08, SSE generated 45.8 investment in new generation capacity over appropriate, some electricity via bilateral terrawatt-hours TWh of electricity, including the next two decades.
It also pointed out contracts and through the wholesale market power stations in which it has ownership or that the UKs diverse generation mix avoids the latter complementing the electricity contractual interest.
In addition, Airtricitys exposure to the risks associated with heavy produced from its own generation portfolio.
wind farms produced 0.8TWh of electricity dependency on a single fuel or technology during 2007 08, including 0.15TWh after its type, helps to maintain secure supplies of Under its integrated Generation and Supply acquisition by SSE in February 2008.
SSE also energy and provides the countrys electricity business model, SSEs power stations and purchased 9.9TWh of electricity via long-term system with the flexibility to accommodate fuel supply contracts are used to support contracts with other generators, including variations in demand and to respond to performance in electricity supply, mainly British Energy.
In the year, it supplied changes in fossil fuel prices.
through using flexibility and optionality to 28.2TWh of electricity to its domestic and respond to customer demand and market small business customers and 27.5TWh The same points apply to SSEs portfolio.
Generation and Supply is, was supplied under contract to industrial and key objectives in Generation are to ensure that therefore, assessed as a single value chain commercial customers.
Any net balances were it has a diverse portfolio of power stations, and this approach means, amongst other traded in the wholesale electricity market.
available to generate electricity and support things, that more sustained value can be created from SSEs balanced portfolio of SSE is the second assets, contracts and customers than largest electricity would be the case on a stand-alone basis.
generator across the UK and Ireland In January 2008, Ofgem confirmed that with 4,500MW of Britains competitive market in energy is gasand oil-fired working.
A month later, however, it launched capacity, 4,000MW an investigation into the markets in electricity of coal capacity and and gas for households and small businesses, over 2,000MW of using its powers under the Enterprise Act renewable capacity.
While it has stated it has no clear evidence of failure of the market, it is carrying out the investigation in response to public 2008 10.5 concern.
Ofgem expects to reach initial conclusions by September 2008.
In SSEs 2007 10.0 view, Ofgems original belief that there is 2006 10.0 no clear evidence of failure of the market is correct: indeed, the market is very competitive 2005 9.9 and provides customers with an excellent 2nd largest degree of choice across all aspects of 2004 5.8 electricity and gas supply.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 02 Business Statement Generation and Supply continued 10 2.
Generation continued security of supply, with the maximum possible During 2007 08, SSE extended its power The proposed extension will provide a further efficiency, in response to customer demand purchase agreements with Seabank Power 470MW to the existing 1,000MW capacity.
and market conditions, while complying fully Limited, in which it also has a 50% stake.
The SSE has a 30.4% stake in Barking Power Ltd with all safety standards and environmental agreements were due to expire in 2009 and and so the extension would effectively add regulations.
It is this diversity which enables 2011, but have now been extended to 2018, around 140MW to its portfolio of generation SSE to manage the risks associated with with the option of a further extension to 2023. assets.
A decision on whether to proceed primary fuel procurement at a time of The new contracts represent a significant with the extension is likely to be made during volatile and rising prices.
milestone in the long-term development 2009, following a tender for the plant and of SSEs portfolio.
construction work and final agreement on In support of these objectives, SSE completed offtake arrangements and financing.
the acquisition of Airtricity in February 2008 Gas-fired Generation Investment for a final enterprise value of 1,349.1m.
The With its high thermal efficiency, relatively low SSE had identified the potential to substitute acquisition was the largest completed by SSE cost and short construction times, combined existing plant at its Peterhead power station since its formation in 1998.
It is designed, cycle gas turbine CCGT technology is set to with new state-of-the-art equipment, amongst other things, to further balance remain the benchmark technology for some increasing the modern CCGT capacity at SSEs electricity generation portfolio, reduce years to come.
Work on the construction of Peterhead to the stations effective grid limit its exposure to volatile commodity prices for Marchwood Power Ltds new 840MW CCGT of 1,520MW.
The front-end engineering design fossil fuels and provide a major new range plant in Southampton is now well under way.
FEED study is now completed and SSE has of investment opportunities from which to Marchwood Power is a joint venture between decided not to proceed with this particular secure growth over the next decade.
SSE and ESBI International, in which SSE project at this time, partly because of the will have 50% of the equity 43m and 50% onerous nature of the transmission charges At the same time, SSEs investment in of the debt 160m of which 55m was that would apply to it.
Generation will go beyond renewable energy.
All of the stations It will continue to examine opportunities output, however, will be contracted to SSE.
Nevertheless, SSE is actively seeking to across all aspects of Generation to ensure With a net thermal efficiency in excess of identify an option for an additional CCGT it has optionality in plant technology, timing 58%, it will be one of the most efficient in the plant, either at one of its existing power of investment and construction and scale UK.
As it was procured before the upsurge in station sites or an alternative brown field of development.
capital costs seen in the electricity generation site.
Future investment decisions of this kind sector over the past two years, it will also be will have to reflect the likely impact of the To support future and current assets, SSE one of the best value new power station EUs legally-binding target of 20% for the has also established an Engineering Centre developments under way in the UK.
proportion of all energy to be derived from to provide both an effective long-term asset renewable sources by 2020.
As the amount of management and investment planning The 22km high pressure gas pipeline electricity generated from renewable sources capability across its Generation portfolio and a between Lockerley and Marchwood has now increases, gas-fired and coal-fired power platform for the future growth of the portfolio.
been installed, and the next key milestone stations are likely to run at lower load factors will be the installation of the first gas turbine than has historically been the case and will Gas-fired Generation Operations generator, which is expected to take place have to be increasingly flexible.
At the same Good performance in BETTA is dependent on shortly.
The plant therefore remains on time, the value inherent in the flexibility of plant availability to generate electricity.
During course to be completed and in commercial SSEs power stations should increase.
These 2007 08, SSEs principal wholly-owned gasoperation in time for the winter of 2009 10. factors will have to be considered when fired power stations Fife, Keadby, Medway investment decisions are made.
and Peterhead achieved an average of 95% In December 2007, consent was given under of their maximum availability to generate Section 36 of the Electricity Act 1989 to Coal and Biomass Generation Operations electricity, excluding planned outages, Barking Power Ltd for the extension of the The Ferrybridge and Fiddlers Ferry power the same as in the previous year.
existing CCGT power station at Dagenham.
stations, each with a capacity of almost 2,000MW, achieved 91% of their maximum availability to generate electricity, excluding planned outages, during 2007 08, compared with 92% in the previous year.
This slight reduction reflects an increase in two-shift What is Safety?
operation of the plant and integration work with the Flue Gas Desulphurisation FDG projects currently running at both stations.
Moreover, we recognise that achieving We believe that all accidents are high standards of health and safety helps The stations can also co-fire fuels from preventable, so we aim to do everything achieve high standards of business renewable sources biomass, thus displacing safely and responsibly, or not at all.
This performance and supports our other fossil fuels and reducing the impact of carbon means we believe all of our work can and values, such as service, efficiency emissions resulting from their operation, should be carried out without any harm and teamwork.
The to employees, contractors, customers resulting electricity output qualifies for or any other people.
During 2007 08, the number of lost time Renewable Obligation Certificates ROCs.
and reportable accidents within SSE was During the year, their output qualifying for 0.04 per 100,000 hours worked and the ROCs was 368GWh, compared with 741GWh number of serious, or potentially serious, in the previous year.
This reflects outages road traffic accidents involving employees relating to the installation of FGD equipment driving company vehicles was 0.18 per and difficulties relating to the bioswirl 100 vehicles.
This is too many accidents facility at Ferrybridge.
and our ultimate goal continues to be injury-free working.
There have been issues with respect to these co-firing facilities, including the fact that the Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 11 availability of the biomass fuel principally by- 2008, under a derogation from Article 5 of the completion of the plasterboard factory products from other processes has proved to the LCPD.
As a result, the stations operated being developed at Ferrybridge by Lafarge be lower than expected, so SSE recognised an with a lower than usual load factor in the Plasterboard Ltd and the ash separation impairment charge of 12.2m in respect of the early months of 2008. plant being developed at Fiddlers Ferry original expenditure on the co-firing facilities.
In order to comply with the LCPD after 2015, At the same time, however, the new facilities SSE will have to install advanced nitrogen Creating around 70 new jobs, the Lafarge mean that SSE is now the UKs leading user oxide abatement equipment at Fiddlers factory at Ferrybridge will use the source of biomass co-firing.
In January 2008, the Ferry and at the capacity at Ferrybridge fitted of gypsum produced as a result of FGD, UK government announced decisions to with FGD.
This will require a substantial process it and despatch it from the site band the Renewables Obligation, so that, investment, but it is unlikely to commence as plasterboard.
The factory is expected from 1 April 2009, electricity output resulting before 2011 12 and the first stage is included to be operational later this year.
from co-firing will receive 0.5 ROCs per MWh.
in SSEs expected capital expenditure for This compares with the 0.25 ROCs originally the next five years.
Over a period of up to 25 years, the RockTron proposed.
The cap on such co-firing will be plant at Fiddlers Ferry will remove and retained, so that electricity suppliers can In view of the ongoing role for coal-fired process all fresh ash produced by the power only meet up to 10% of their Renewables electricity generation in the UK, SSE believes station, and much of that currently stored Obligation from this technology.
that there may be a need to replace the in lagoons at the site, up to a total of around capacity 1,000MW at Ferrybridge which is 800,000 tonnes per annum.
The ash will be Coal and Biomass Generation Investment scheduled to close in 2015.
Having discounted processed into its constituent parts which Although CCGT will be the benchmark retrofit options in the autumn of 2007, it is become marketable products, with the technology in the coming years, it is clear currently developing options for a new 800MW largest volume being used as cement that coal-fired electricity generation will unit at the site using the Supercritical Boiler substitutes.
Without processing, ash remain a key part of the UKs energy mix technology.
The high temperatures and disposal would begin to attract landfill duty for many years to come, albeit within pressures which feature in this technology and associated environmental liabilities.
deliver a significant increase in thermal The plant is expected to be operational As the UK Secretary of State for Business efficiency, from a typical 35% for existing plant before the end of 2008. put it in March 2008, fossil fuels will continue to around 45%, thereby delivering a significant to play an important role in ensuring the reduction in the carbon dioxide emissions EU Emissions Trading Scheme flexibility of the electricity generation system, per kilowatt-hour of electricity produced.
Phase II of the EU Emissions Trading with coal a key source of that flexibility as Scheme EU ETS started on 1 January 2008. we increase the proportion of renewable Any plant would be made capture ready, Across its electricity generation portfolio energy in our electricity mix.
enabling it to be fitted with carbon capture taking account of contractual shares, SSE and storage CCS equipment.
SSE has a longreceived an allocation of 16.3 million tonnes The Large Combustion Plant Directive standing and active interest in developments per annum.
This can be compared with its LCPD aims to reduce acidification, in CCS and, following the launch of the UK Phase I allocation of 19.6 million tonnes ground level ozone and particles to below governments CCS competition in November per annum.
SSEs Phase II allocation as a the Emission Limit Value thresholds for 2007, submitted in March 2008 an outline percentage of its Phase I allocation is around sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust project proposal to operate by 2012 a post- 83%, compared with around 80% across the from plants including power stations.
In line combustion plant fitted to 50-100MW of an electricity sector as a whole.
In addition, with that, SSE has opted in to the Directive existing sub-critical coal unit at Ferrybridge the Environment Agency has confirmed that all of the capacity at Fiddlers Ferry and half power station.
This would allow the necessary Marchwood Power Ltd has an allocation of of the capacity at Ferrybridge and so is design and operational knowledge to be five million tonnes reserved to it from when installing FGD equipment at the stations developed to enable commercial-sized units it is commissioned to the end of Phase II.
in an investment expected to total around 300-400MW of flue gas treatment to be 225m.
By making them compliant with offered on a commercial basis on an earlier SSE does not believe such allocations the LCPD emissions levels, the stations timetable than proposals based on installation represent any kind of windfall.
Before the contribution to the security of the UKs to new Supercritical plant which is unlikely introduction of EU ETS on 1 January 2005, energy supplies is being extended and SSE to be available before 2015.
SSE believes power stations could emit carbon dioxide will continue to have the countrys most its proposal provides an achievable and free of charge.
After that date, they had to diverse electricity generation portfolio.
important step in the technological operate within tighter emissions limits.
Where those limits have had to be breached Although progress in recent months has often to ensure the stability of the countrys been slower than expected, the installation Plant construction lead times for coal-fired electricity system electricity generators, of FGD at both stations is expected to be and gas-fired generation are lengthening including SSE, have had to purchase permits completed, as originally envisaged, during as the global demand for power generation to emit carbon dioxide.
To achieve that, SSE is working equipment continues to heighten, and that very closely with the main contractor to global demand could have a significant In other words, EU ETS represents an improve performance through to the end impact on the price of such equipment.
This, additional and, over the long-term, growing of the project.
In line with that, construction allied to the volatile nature of commodity cost for electricity generators, and is not a activities are now well-advanced and the first prices for coal and gas, makes investment windfall.
It is expected to grow on the basis units at both sites are now scheduled to decisions in these areas increasingly that the UK government and the EU remain begin hot commissioning in late summer.
At the same time, it supports the convinced that a price for carbon that value of existing assets and assets already reflects the environmental costs of electricity The LCPD actually came into effect on under development, including those which production and consumption is the best 1 January 2008 and, in the meantime, SSE has rely on renewable sources to produce energy.
means of encouraging investment in an agreement with the Environment Agency lowand zero-carbon technologies.
to enable it to operate Fiddlers Ferry for Coal and Biomass Generation Sustainability 1,270 hours to 15 September 2008 and also The overall sustainability of SSEs coal-fired In line with this, in January 2008, the EU Ferrybridge for 1,270 hours to 15 September power stations will be further enhanced upon set out proposals for the EU ETS after 2012.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 02 Business Statement Generation and Supply continued 12 2.
Generation continued It suggested that all of the carbon dioxide experience of operating in a number of emissions allowances for electricity producers countries, as well as providing greater should be auctioned.
The proposals are diversity within its renewable energy portfolio.
subject to approval by the EU Council of Ministers and the European Parliament Following the acquisition of Airtricity, and and so they have some way to go before the ongoing development of its own portfolio they are adopted policy for implementation.
of projects, SSE now owns and operates over 2,000MW of capacity for generating In 2007 08, emissions of carbon dioxide electricity from renewable sources, from SSEs power stations and from the comprising: over 1,350MW of capacity in contracted output share of emissions from hydro electric schemes including pumped SSE has 1,356MW power stations in which it has a contractual storage : around 600MW of wind farms: and of hydro capacity.
relationship totalled 22.7 million tonnes, the UKs largest dedicated biomass energy Its 10-year average compared with 25.8 million tonnes in the facility at Slough 80MW.
Of this capacity, output to 31 March previous year.
It purchased carbon dioxide 260MW is in the Republic of Ireland, with 2008 was 3,250GWh.
emissions allowances totalling 6.7 million the remainder being in the United Kingdom.
tonnes in 2007 08, beyond that provided under the National Allocation Plan.
Looking ahead, the expected completion of onshore and offshore wind farm Under the Clean Development Mechanism developments and the Glendoe hydro electric CDM established under Article 12 of the scheme should increase SSEs renewable Kyoto Protocol, companies can meet their energy capacity in the UK and Ireland to over 1,356MW carbon emissions reduction targets by 2,500MW by the end of 2010 and to 4,000MW purchasing Carbon Emissions Reduction by the end of 2013.
2008 3,518 Certificates CERs from CDM-approved carbon reduction projects in the As well as its obvious environmental 2007 3,767 developing world.
credentials, renewable energy also 2006 3,054 significantly reduces SSEs exposure to During 2007 08, SSE entered into agreements escalating prices for fossil fuels for the 2005 3,544 with companies in China and Brazil to straightforward reason that in the case of 2004 2,640 purchase around three million CERs over a hydro and wind the fuel used to generate period of up to five years.
The CERs relate to electricity is indigenous and free.
wind farms and hydro schemes and therefore mirror SSEs strategy in the UK.
While the Hydro Generation Operations large majority of SSEs investment in reducing Total output from SSEs hydro electric stations Hydro Generation Investment carbon emissions will continue to be in the excluding pumped storage during 2007 08 The construction of what will be SSEs UK, it will continue to seek opportunities was 3,518GWh.
This compares with 3,767GWh second largest conventional hydro electric to expand its activities in this area.
in the previous year, which was the fourth station at Glendoe, near Loch Ness, is now highest on record, and with the 10-year entering its final phase.
The 960 metre-long Renewable Energy Overview average of 3,250GWh.
As at 31 March 2008, dam is expected to be completed in the Tackling climate change and securing future the amount of water held in SSEs reservoirs autumn and commissioning of the single supplies are the twin goals of energy policy in which could be used to generate electricity 100MW turbine is expected to take place the UK, Ireland and throughout the European was 73% of the maximum, compared with early in the New Year.
It therefore remains Union EU.
In line with that, the EUs adoption 75% on the same date last year, enough on course for electricity to be generated by of a legally-binding target of 20% for the to generate 655GWh of electricity.
the end of this financial year.
At that point, proportion of all energy to be derived from SSEs hydro electric capacity, including renewable sources by 2020, supported by a The output of refurbished hydro electric pumped storage will reach over 1,450MW.
draft Directive, will clearly lead to a dramatic stations with capacity of up to 20MW, and increase in the amount of renewable energy of all new stations commissioned after 2002, With an installed capacity of 100MW, Glendoe that will be required by that date.
The EU qualifies for ROCs and SSE has just over will produce around 180GWh of electricity targets currently mean the UK will have to 400MW of capacity in this category.
Of the qualifying for ROCs in an average year.
increase its renewable energy proportion total hydro output in 2007 08, just over When synchronised, it will be able to start of all energy demand from 1.3% to 15%.
Assuming generating 100MW of electricity in 30 seconds.
For Ireland, the increase is from 3.1% to 16%.
average run off of water into SSEs reservoirs The final investment at Glendoe is likely to In practice, this is likely to mean that around during the year, the ROC-qualifying output be over 140m, of which 128m had been 40% of the countries electricity requirements from hydro generation is expected to be incurred by the end of March 2008. will have to be met from renewable sources.
In addition to Glendoe, SSE has applied for As the EU Energy Commissioner stated in In October 2007, and following discussions consent to build new run-of-river hydro January 2008 In a time of growing oil prices with SSE and others, the Scottish Environment electric schemes near Crianlarich 2.5MW and climate change concerns, renewable Protection Agency published the Significant and Wester Ross 3.5MW.
SSE continues energy sources is an opportunity that we Water Management Issues consultation to believe there is potential to develop a cannot miss.
They will help us to reduce our report, an intermediate step in the small number of new, larger hydro electric carbon dioxide emissions and strengthen our preparation of the river basin management schemes in the Highlands, and given the security of supply.
Against this background, plan for Scotland under the Water Framework significance of the recently-adopted EU SSE will seek to enhance and create value Directive.
The outcome of this consultation targets it is exploring again the scope to for shareholders from the development of will help shape the way the water environment develop at least one of these potential sites an international business focusing on is regulated, and SSE believes that, ultimately, and is currently identifying the site most renewable energy.
An international business the Directive can be implemented without likely to overcome the various planning will provide SSE with the opportunity to gain reducing the output of renewable energy.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 13 The vast majority of SSEs hydro electric SSE said, when it acquired Airtricity, that it stations were built in the 1950s and early expected to have over 3,500MW of operating 1960s and are the subject of a rolling renewable capacity in the UK and Ireland programme of investment to prolong their in 2013.
Following a comprehensive review working life and improve their operational of its renewable energy projects, SSE now efficiency, with a total value of around expects this to be around 4,000MW.
this basis, it will double in five years its renewable energy capacity in the UK and Wind Generation Operations Ireland.
During 2008 09 alone, it will start SSEs wind farms at Tangy now 19MW construction work at a number of wind following its extension, Spurness currently farms in Scotland and elsewhere.
8MW, Artfield Fell 20MW and Hadyard Hill 120MW produced 350GWh of ROC-qualifying The achievement of this new target is subject output in 2007 08, compared with 384GWh to projects securing all of the necessary in 2006 07. approvals in a timely manner, adequate electricity network capacity and to the These wind farms are all in Scotland and, maintenance of a stable public policy following its acquisition of Airtricity, SSE framework which encourages investment now owns capacity at two other Scottish in renewable energy.
Subject to that, SSE wind farms which produced electricity during expects its portfolio in 2013 will comprise, in 2007 08: Ardrossan 12MW : and Braes of addition to almost 1,500MW of hydro electric Doune 36MW.
It also now owns and operates schemes: around 2,000MW of onshore wind two wind farms in Northern Ireland which farms: over 250MW of offshore wind farms: produced electricity during the year: Bin and around 250MW of waste-to-energy and Mountain 9MW : and Tappaghan 19MW.
The total ROC-qualifying output from this 162 capacity in 2007 08 as a whole was 189GWh, In addition to the above, SSE is now of which 39GWh was attributable to SSE pursuing onshore and offshore wind farm following the acquisition of Airtricity.
developments in Europe and onshore developments in China which could add In addition, SSEs 10 wind farms in the well over 500MW to its renewable energy Republic of Ireland produced 645GWh of portfolio by 2013. electricity during 2007 08, of which 110GWh 40 was attributable to SSE following the Wind Generation Investment in the UK 21 acquisition of Airtricity.
and Ireland 13 The delivery of an additional 2,000MW of The output from SSEs wind farms in the renewable capacity in the UK and Ireland 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 UK and the Republic of Ireland is expected by 2013 is likely to require capital investment to be significantly greater in 2008 09 than of over 2.5bn in onshore wind, offshore wind in the preceding year based on recentlyand hydro electric schemes over the next five constructed wind farms such as Dalswinton financial years, with investment currently and Drumderg producing power and new expected to peak in 2010 11.
Following the acquisition plant currently in construction being of Airtricity, SSE owns commissioned.
This investment programme includes the and operates capacity at 504MW Greater Gabbard offshore wind farm.
wind farms in Scotland, Wind Generation Investment Overview Construction work will begin shortly and on Northern Ireland and the Airtricity is now SSEs renewable energy completion it will be the worlds largest Republic of Ireland.
It will development division, and has been combined offshore wind farm.
shortly begin construction with SSEs existing wind and hydro of the worlds largest development team to provide a significantly The development of the wind farm was offshore wind farm at enhanced capability in this vital area.
carried out by Greater Gabbard Offshore Greater Gabbard in the Wind Ltd, a 50:50 joint venture between outer Thames Estuary.
When it entered into the agreement Airtricity and Fluor.
Having secured the to acquire Airtricity in January 2008, construction contract, Fluor agreed to sell the combined business had 875MW of its 50% stake in the joint venture to SSE for onshore wind farm capacity in operation, 40m in cash in May 2008.
SSE intends to in construction or with consent for sell 50% of the project equity later this year.
Since then, consent has been The development, excluding the connection, granted for a number of developments and A turbine reservation agreement with is expected to require investment of around construction work has been completed at Siemens Wind Power A S for the supply of 1.3bn.
SSE will fund its 50% share from some others.
As a result, SSE now has almost 140 3.6MW turbines was secured in 2007 and either its balance sheet or through non- 1,030MW of onshore wind farm capacity in both parties subsequently agreed the turbine recourse project finance.
It also expects these categories, an addition of more than supply contract and the five-year service and to take 50% of the output of Greater 150MW since January 2008.
This means warranty contract for the development.
Gabbard, with the remainder being the the pipeline of opportunities in renewable subject of a separate agreement with energy which the acquisition highlighted is The wind farm will be commissioned in two another power purchaser.
It also means that SSE now phases, with the entire construction scheduled has over 3,000MW of renewable energy to be completed in 2011.
It is expected to A major construction project of this kind, capacity in operation, under construction have a load factor of over 40%, based on in potentially challenging conditions, is or with consent.
site-specific data collected since 2005. not without risks but these have been Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 The right question Highlight better plan The structure of energy consumption is going to change significantly and SSE believes that customers greater awareness of the need for energy efficiency represents an opportunity.
SSE has launched the better plan a unique energy programme which enables and encourages customers to commit to using less energy and financially rewards them for doing so with: vouchers enabling them to get money off their energy bills: A-rated electrical and gas appliances: and energy efficiency measures including a monitor that measures customers real-time energy consumption.
13 terrawatt-hours TWh of energy-saving measures provided to SSE customers as a result of measures introduced under the Energy Efficiency Commitment during 2007 08.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 15 The UK governments White Paper published in May 2007 stated that Improving the energy efficiency of homes can reduce energy bills and help ensure that the most vulnerable can afford to heat their homes.
Against this background, where everyone has a part to play in reducing CO emissions, the right question is how does SSE help customers save energy 2 and reduce their energy bills?
HOWDOWE HELP CUSTOMERS SAVE ENERGY?
SSE supplies electricity and gas to 8.45 million customers in the UK and Ireland.
Growth during 2007 08 enabled it to overtake E. ON UK to become the UKs second largest supplier.
One of the key elements of SSEs Environment Policy is to focus on encouraging its customers to consider and implement ways of reducing their consumption of energy.
This is consistent with the governments White Paper which said the starting point for our energy policy is to save energy.
SSE does this through a number of initiatives including: introducing of the UKs first energy tariff designed to financially reward reduced energy consumption: and participating in trials of smart meters and real-time displays which enable customers to track their energy use.
Under the Energy Efficiency Commitment EEC, SSE helps its customers to reduce the energy they use by: providing subsidised A-rated domestic appliances: supplying low energy lamps Compact Fluorescent Lamps : and promoting A-rated gas condensing boilers and home insulation measures.
At least 50% of these energy-saving measures are focused on a priority group of low-income customers in receipt of certain benefits, so it is expected that EEC will also contribute to the eradication of fuel poverty.
SSE is recruiting qualified Domestic Energy Assessors so it can participate in the UK governments Energy Performance Certificates scheme for house sales and commercial and rented properties.
Under the scheme, certificates are commissioned by the seller or their agent from an accredited energy assessor, who visits the property to collect the relevant data and who creates the certificate which shows potential buyers or tenants the energy efficiency of the premises.
One of the challenges faced by SSE, indeed by us all, is persuading people that we can all make a difference to climate change and energy security through our collective efforts to reduce energy consumption.
Perth shop Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 02 Business Statement Generation and Supply continued 16 2.
Generation continued managed through the procurement and sources are wood chips, biomass and waste While the acquisition of Airtricity has extended project management strategies which have paper.
The site has its own fuel processing the scope of SSEs renewable energy interests been adopted.
plant, which takes delivery of waste paper to continental Europe and to China, thereby products and converts them into useable fuel.
giving it development and operational activity The overall investment profile for the next in new geographical locations, that activity five years is subject to a number of factors, Part of the plant is contracted under the Non will remain very focused and disciplined.
SSE including constraints on the supply of wind Fossil Fuel Obligation.
It produced 144GWh will be specific about the new markets which turbines and the impact of those constraints of output qualifying for ROCs during 2007 08, it is tackling and longer-term developments on their procurement.
Nevertheless, the of which 19GWh was attributable to SSE.
The will depend upon clearly demonstrated turbine supply position is expected to acquisition gives SSE a platform from which success in attaining shorter-term goals, improve over the next few years, and SSEs to build up its interest in biomass and wastesuch as those set for 2013. enhanced significance as a wind farm to-energy, which it believes will become developer following the acquisition of increasingly important over the next decade.
Investment in Emerging Technologies Airtricity should enable it to secure good As well as investing in technologies value from suppliers.
It is also exploring new Investment in New Markets which already have the scale to make a sources for wind turbines, including China.
In addition to its wind and hydro investments substantial contribution to meeting energy In line with that, it is working with a Chinese in the UK and Ireland, SSE is also expecting needs in the near future, SSE has a range manufacturer on the introduction of its to invest around 500m in renewable energy of investments in emerging technologies.
turbines into the European market next year.
in new markets: onshore and offshore wind The development of secure, reliable farms in Europe principally Portugal, and cost-effective low carbon energy The target for 2013 does not include the Sweden, Italy and Germany where there technologies towards commercial proposal by SSE and Viking Energy Ltd, the are particular opportunities for growth in deployment is a key priority for the UK company established to represent Shetland renewables : onshore wind farms in China: government and is part of SSEs strategy Islands Councils interests in wind farm waste-to-energy principally in the UK : and to remain the UKs leading generator of development, to develop on Shetlands emerging technologies.
This investment electricity from renewable sources.
Central Mainland a wind farm with around will largely be on an equity basis, with nonParticipation in emerging technology 600MW of capacity.
An application for recourse debt expected to account for around developments helps SSE to be at the consent to build the wind farm is now 75% of the total cost of the investment.
forefront of, and to adapt to, the changes expected to be submitted to Scottish in energy production and consumption that Ministers later this year.
It also does not For example, in April 2008, SSE through are likely to occur over the next decade.
include the proposal by SSE for a 94MW Airtricity entered into a 50:50 joint venture wind farm on the Isle of Lewis, which, if with Gothia Vind which is expected to lead Of the emerging technologies, solar is consented, is not expected to be operational to the development of new wind farms in likely to be critical and SSE has a 12.3% before the end of 2013. western Sweden.
Based near Gothenburg, stake in Solarcentury, the UKs leading Gothia Vind is a specialist wind energy independent solar photovoltaics company.
The joint venture is aiming to SSE is Solarcenturys preferred installer In December 2007, SSE completed the develop around 200MW of wind farm capacity and the two companies have been appointed acquisition of Slough Heat and Power from in western Sweden, with the first wind farm by the UK Department of Business to supply SEGRO plc for a total cash consideration scheduled to be in operation around 2011. and install solar panels on Britains public of 49.5m.
Slough Heat and Power is an The development of this capacity is expected buildings as part of its 50m Low Carbon integrated energy business, which includes to require equity investment by Airtricity Buildings Programme.
a combined heat and power CHP plant and Gothia Vind of around 30m each over the with current generating capacity of 80MW.
next few years, with non-recourse debt in this SSE also has a 50% stake in Aquamarine, The CHP plant is the UKs largest dedicated instance expected to account for around 80% the marine energy company which is biomass energy facility and its main fuel of the total cost of the investment.
developing wave power and tidal power devices for comprehensive testing at the European Marine Energy Centre in Orkney.
In March 2008, SSE and Intelligent Energy What is Service?
announced the formation of a joint venture company which will develop clean and reliable fuel cell-based CHP systems for the Our belief is that customers will continue light industrial, commercial and residential We give our customers service we to acquire products and services from markets in the UK and Ireland.
In addition, are proud of and make commitments companies that they trust.
In other words, in April 2008, SSE acquired a 21% stake in that we deliver.
it is not simply the product itself which Logan Energy Limited, in return for 375,000 matters, but also all of the services and goodwill brought to the new business, relating to it.
which will focus on fuel cell installation and maintenance.
That is why we are introducing a new Customer Charter, featuring a series This was followed in April 2008 by an of commitments on quality service, fair agreement to invest up to 15m in cash pricing and the environment.
The Charter for a 20% stake in Geothermal International, sets out in straightforward language what the UKs leading supplier of ground-source our customers can expect of us and what heating and cooling systems, from existing we aim to deliver every day.
From being established in 2000, it has installed over 1,300 ground-source heat pump systems, amounting to over 90MW of installed capacity.
