Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 03 Corporate Governance Report continued 46 10.
Accountability, Risk Management and Internal Control continued 11.
Key Risks and the Control Environment 12.
Communication with Shareholders and Major Stakeholders k ensures that the business units carry out Investment Risk Annual General Meeting regular reviews on their internal controls There is a formal authorisation procedure The companys Annual General Meeting relating to the key risks: for all investments with clear guidelines on AGM gives an opportunity for the Board k monitors the effectiveness of the Groups appraisal techniques and success criteria.
It gives system of internal control through the The Audit Committee reviews investments shareholders the opportunity to be briefed distribution of reports and, where through the Post-Investment Appraisal by management on the performance of the appropriate, action plans to senior process.
All Directors attend the AGM and managers, Directors, the Audit shareholders are invited to ask questions Committee and external Auditors: GOING CONCERN and to meet with the Directors and senior k monitors adherence to the Groups key managers both before the meeting and policies and principles: and The Directors consider that the Group has following the conclusion of the formal k provides the Audit Committee and Board adequate resources to continue in operational part of the meeting.
with objective assurance on the Groups existence for the foreseeable future.
Financial Statements are therefore prepared At the AGM, shareholders are advised of on a going concern basis.
the proxy votes cast for each resolution and KEY RISKS AND THE CONTROL a report is placed on the companys website ENVIRONMENT COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS following the meeting, in addition to being AND MAJOR STAKEHOLDERS announced to the London Stock Exchange.
The Business Statement considers risk in the context of the current business environment.
Institutional Shareholders Company Communications The key risks and the control environment The Board encourages and seeks to build Following the introduction of the which generally apply are considered below.
up a mutual understanding of objectives Companies Act 2006 shareholders now between the Group and institutional have a choice on how to receive their Treasury Risk shareholders, fund managers and analysts.
company communications such as the The Board reviews and agrees policies It believes that this is fundamental to ensuring annual report.
A letter from the Chairman for addressing risks in respect of interest that the Groups strategy is understood and was sent to shareholders as part of the rates, foreign exchange, liquidity and credit.
that any questions or issues are dealt with dividend mailing in March 2008 asking If either fuel or plant are contracted in in a constructive way.
shareholders to elect: foreign currency, it is the Groups policy to hedge material purchases through foreign The Executive Directors follow an ongoing k to receive email notification of company currency swaps and forward rate contracts.
programme of dialogue, meetings, communications, view documentation presentations and site visits.
The Investor online and lodge their proxy over the Energy Trading Risk Relations team has day-to-day responsibility internet: The risk of exposure to energy prices and for managing communications with k to receive written notification of the volumes is addressed by the Risk Committee institutional shareholders.
availability of company communications and is further explained in note 28 to the on the website: or Financial Statements.
The Board receives reports on significant k to continue to receive paper copies discussions with shareholders allowing of company communications.
Operational Risk Directors to form a view of the priorities Mechanical or process failure in the licensed and concerns of the companys stakeholders.
Following this programme, an additional operations could be significant.
Operating Brokers reports and analysts briefings are 10,000 shareholders chose to receive all their risk is addressed through the identification distributed to Directors.
As recognition of key operational risks and the development of the reduced environmental impact that of mitigation plans by each business unit.
The An internal Disclosure Group ensures all this form of communication entails the Group also focuses on seeking operational appropriate communications are made to the company, on behalf of shareholders, will excellence and on maintaining the highest London Stock Exchange and shareholders.
make a donation of 20,000 to the World standards of safety and quality.
Copies of all announcements can be Wildlife Funds WWFs International accessed from the companys website Forest Programme.
The company now Regulatory and Governmental Risk www.
communicates with 41,000 shareholders The Group is exposed to economic regulation electronically.
In addition, over 260,000 and Government policy.
The Executive The Chairman attended the companys shareholders chose to receive written Directors and management respond to interim and preliminary results notification of the electronic availability of developments and where appropriate engage presentations in May 2007 and November future communications and the company will with the industry regulators, government 2007.
Susan Rice who was appointed make a further donation in excess of 65,000 ministers and officials and other key bodies Senior Independent Director in July 2007 to WWFs International Forest Programme.
to ensure any risks are mitigated.
also attended the interim results presentation in November.
The previous electronic communications and Financial Risk shareholding merger programmes resulted The Groups performance is reviewed by the As part of the induction programme, in over 39,000 native species trees being Board and the Executive Committee.
There arrangements are made for major planted in SSE woodlands.
is a comprehensive financial review cycle, shareholders to meet with newly which includes an annual budget approved appointed Directors.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan by the Board, review of monthly variances The company runs a dividend reinvestment against budget and regular review of forward Private Shareholders plan which allows shareholders to reinvest looking and historic key performance The Board is equally interested in the cash dividends in further shares to build up indicators.
Clear authorisation levels also concerns of private shareholders and, on their stake in the company.
Details can be exist and there is proper segregation of its behalf the Company Secretary oversees obtained from the companys website or by accounting duties.
calling the shareholder helpline number.
