Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 03 Corporate Governance Report continued 44 4.
Nomination Committee External Audit Process responsibilities, operation and effectiveness, NOMINATION COMMITTEE k reviewed the effectiveness of the overall the conclusions of which were agreed and audit process for 2007 08, meeting with reported to the Board at its meeting in Role the Auditor and management separately March 2008.
The Nomination Committee reviews the to identify any areas of concern in the structure, composition and balance of the preparation of the financial statements: REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Board and leads the process for Board k reviewed and agreed the terms of appointments.
Before an appointment is appointment, areas of responsibility, Role made the Committee evaluates the skills, associated duties and scope of the audit The principal responsibilities of the knowledge and experience of the Board as set out in the engagement letter for Remuneration Committee are: to ensure that any new appointment the forthcoming year: complements these qualities.
Candidates k reviewed and agreed the audit fees, k formulation of remuneration policy and from a wide range of backgrounds are fees for non-recurring work and the approval of all aspects of the Executive considered and as part of the process for regulatory reporting fee: Directors remuneration, including identifying suitable candidates, the Committee k reviewed key accounting and audit bonuses and the granting of incentives utilises the assistance of a professional issues: and under the companys schemes: search firm.
The Committee reviews k reviewed recommendations made by the k ensuring that an appropriate proportion membership of all Board committees.
Auditor in its management letter and the of pay is linked to corporate and individual adequacy of managements response.
performance: and The Committee also reviews succession k review and approval of the Chairmans planning and leadership needs in the course Independence of Auditor fees.
of its work taking into account the risks and k reviewed the extent of non-audit services opportunities facing the company, and from provided by the Auditor in accordance Membership this identifies the skills and expertise with the established policy where: The members of the Remuneration required from the Board and senior a competitive tender process is required Committee who held office during the year management team.
where non-audit fees exceed a threshold and at the date of this report are set out of 30,000 for general advice and in Table C below.
Membership 75,000 for tax-related advice: The members of the Nomination the Committee must be satisfied that Activities in 2007 08 Committee who held office during the year the work was best handled by the During the year the Remuneration and at the date of this report are set out Auditors because of their knowledge Committee met five times.
of the Group: and the Committee must be satisfied that Full details of Directors remuneration, The Company Secretary is Secretary to the the objectivity and independence of the general policy and developments during Nomination Committee.
Auditors was not affected by the work the year are given in the Remuneration k reviewed changes in the Audit team: and Report set out on pages 50 to 56.
The Members do not take part in discussions k recommend to the Board that the Auditor Company Secretary is Secretary to the about their own appointment.
Chairman would not chair the meeting when it is dealing with the appointment of his Full disclosure of the non-audit fees paid Evaluation successor.
In this case the meeting would during the year is made in note 3 to the The annual evaluation was conducted by be chaired by a non-Executive Director Financial Statements.
the Committee of its composition, role and elected by the remaining members.
responsibilities, operation and effectiveness, Evaluation the conclusions of which were agreed and Activities in 2007 08 The annual evaluation was conducted by reported to the Board at its meeting in During the year the Nomination Committee the Committee of its composition, role and March 2008. met twice.
Table C Members of the Remuneration Committee Name Role Date of appointment resignation Susan Rice Committee Chairman and non-Executive Director Appointed November 2006 Richard Gillingwater Non-Executive Director Appointed July 2007 Sir Robert Smith Board Chairman Appointed November 2006 Sir Kevin Smith Non-Executive Director Appointed November 2004 David Payne Non-Executive Director Retired July 2007 Table D Members of the Nomination Committee Name Role Date of appointment resignation Sir Robert Smith Committee and Board Chairman Appointed January 2005 Ren Mdori Non-Executive Director Appointed November 2006 Susan Rice Non-Executive Director Appointed November 2007 Sir Kevin Smith Non-Executive Director Appointed November 2004 Ian Marchant Chief Executive Appointed October 2002 David Payne Non-Executive Director Retired July 2007
