Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 29 11.
Gas Storage more complex, SSEs approach is to provide Gas Storage Investment the capacity.
On completion of the extension, a growing range of dependable services and The joint venture with Statoil UK Ltd to SSE would have effective ownership of over thereby position itself to be a successful develop, at Aldbrough, near Hornsea, what 800mcm of gas storage capacity, including and national provider as the production will become the UKs largest onshore gas Hornsea.
Site preparation work has been and consumption of energy changes over storage facility is continuing to make completed and a final decision on whether the next decade.
progress, albeit at a slower rate than to proceed with this development is expected expected when the development work to be taken during 2008 09.
GAS STORAGE started in 2004 and also when the project was reviewed at the start of 2007 08.
Gas Storage Priorities in 2008 09 and Beyond k Operating profit of 50.9m compared SSEs priorities in Gas Storage during with 55.9m in previous year SSEs investment in Aldbrough, is now 2008 09 are to: maintain its excellent record k First caverns at Aldbrough scheduled expected to total around 175m, reflecting of reliability at Hornsea: ensure that the for commercial operation in autumn the increased length of time required to first of the new caverns at Aldbrough are k Planning permission secured to double complete the development and the significant available for commercial storage: and make the size of Aldbrough development to inflationary pressures seen throughout the a decision on whether to proceed with the over 800mcm UK construction industry.
With a total new Aldbrough extension.
Longer-term, SSE will capacity of around 420mcm, of which SSE also continue to look for other opportunities Introduction to Gas Storage will have ownership interest in 280mcm, to add to its gas storage capability.
It is generally recognised that the UK has Aldbrough will provide valuable gas storage insufficient gas storage.
This under capacity for the UK.
Its flexibility is demonstrated by reflects the reliance it was able to place in the fact that it will enable gas to be injected past years on gas production from the North at a rate of up to 30mcm per day and Sea.
As North Sea gas declines, UK imports withdrawn at a rate of 40mcm.
will continue to increase and this means there will be a growing reliance on gas The first three of the nine caverns at storage facilities to help provide security Aldbrough are scheduled to enter commercial of supply.
Such facilities therefore have operation in the autumn.
The first gas has a long-term value.
been introduced to site and dewatering of the first caverns will commence shortly.
SSE owns and operates the UKs largest onshore gas storage facility at Hornsea in SSE and Statoil UK Ltd have secured East Yorkshire.
Nine salt caverns have been consent from East Riding of Yorkshire leached into a salt layer 1.8km below the Council to increase the storage capacity at the surface, creating 325 million cubic metres Aldbrough site beyond that currently under mcm of gas storage capacity.
They are now able to develop injected at a rate of 2mcm per day and a further nine gas storage caverns, taking withdrawn at a rate of 18mcm per day, the total to 18.
If developed in full, this would which is equivalent to the requirements approximately double the amount of gas that of around four million homes.
Construction of the extension would, therefore, help to The services offered at Hornsea provide ensure that the UK can meet gas demand customers with a reliable source of flexibility during periods of high energy usage.
with which to manage their gas supply demand balance and respond to market SSE would contribute 50% of the cost of the opportunities.
Capacity is sold in Standard extension in return for ownership of 50% of Bundled Units SBU, of which Hornsea has 195 million available in total, and each SBU provides capacity to inject gas into the facility, store gas there and withdraw gas from it.
Gas Storage Operations Gas Storage delivered an operating profit of 50.9m, compared with 55.9m in the previous year which SSE said in its Annual Report 2007 We support and value our colleagues and Working as a team gives us a common was a high point in gas storage profitability.
enjoy working together as a team in an sense of purpose and creates a climate The value of, and demand for, gas storage open and honest way.
Our team includes in which everyone is very open to ideas and facilities in the UK has, however, continued over 16,000 people working from more very honest with each other.
It encourages to be high and incidents at the Bacton gas than almost 200 power stations, depots, excellence in everything we do on behalf terminal and the Grangemouth oil refinery customer service centres, shops and of our shareholders and our customers.
again demonstrated the importance of gas offices in every part of the UK and, Teamwork is a key way of assessing storage in securing UK energy supplies.
One of SSEs priorities for 2007 08 was to With employees becoming shareholders ensure that Hornsea maintained its excellent and customers themselves, we believe record of dependability, and during the year there is a real commonality of interest it was 100% available to customers, except between the SSE team, our customers in instances of planned maintenance.
This and our shareholders on which well enabled customers to manage their gas build on in the years ahead.
market risks and respond to gas trading opportunities.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 The right question Nine underground caverns at Aldbrough, the first three of which are expected to be available for full commercial service in 2008 09.
Highlight Aldbrough In a joint venture with Statoil UK Ltd, SSE is developing what will become the UKs largest onshore gas storage facility, at Aldbrough in Yorkshire.
The new facility will have a total new capacity of 420mcm, of which SSE will have an ownership interest in 280mcm, bringing the companys total gas storage capacity to 605mcm.
Aldbrough will provide valuable gas storage for the UK energy industry.
Its flexibility is demonstrated by the fact that it will enable gas to be injected at a rate of up to 30mcm per day and withdrawn at a rate of 40mcm.
420mcm is the total capacity of the new gas storage facility at Aldbrough in Yorkshire.
Aldbrough gas storage facility Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 31 The UK relies on gas to provide energy for heating and electricity more than any other primary source of energy.
The Energy White Paper The Energy Challenge said that gas-fired power plants are a key method of electricity generation, generating over one-third of the UKs electricity requirement.
By 2010, it is estimated that the UK will be 50% dependent on imported gas, rising to 80% by 2020.
The right question is how is SSE investing to help secure energy supplies for customers?
HOWDOWE SECURE ENERGY SUPPLIES FOR CUSTOMERS?
In an environment where the UK is becoming increasingly dependent in imported gas, there is clear benefit in reducing that dependency.
SSE is doing this by continuing to expand its diverse portfolio of power stations which, in addition to gas, use coal, biomass, hydro and wind as their primary sources of energy.
SSEs newly established Engineering Centre will provide an effective long-term asset management and investment planning capability across its generation portfolio to provide a platform to support this growth.
For example, SSE is now the UKs leading user of biomass co-firing following the completion of enhanced facilities at its Fiddlers Ferry and Ferrybridge power stations.
The installation of FGD equipment at these stations will extend their contribution to the security of the UKs energy supplies.
In addition to reducing the dependency on gas overall, reducing the risk of short-term disruption to energy supplies due to supply problems can be limited by large-scale storage of gas.
The UK has a total storage capacity of 3.3 billion cubic metres bcm, equivalent to 14 days supply at average winter gas demand rates.
SSE owns and operates the UKs largest onshore gas storage facility at Hornsea in East Yorkshire.
Nine salt caverns have been leached into a salt layer 1.8km below the surface, creating 325 million cubic metres mcm of gas storage capacity.
Gas can be injected at a rate of 2mcm per day and withdrawn at a rate of 18mcm per day, which is equivalent to the requirements of around four million homes.
SSE faces the challenge of continuing to secure gas supplies as the UK becomes increasingly dependent on imports.
To address this, it is currently developing additional capacity at nearby Aldbrough and has secured consent for further capacity at the site beyond that currently under development.
