Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 02 Business Statement Generation and Supply 9 1.
Generation OVERVIEW In April 2008, Ofgem launched another The continuing growth achieved by SSEs investigation, into SSE and Scottish Power integrated Generation and Supply business k Operating profit up 12.7% to 724.2m Limited, under section 18 of the Competition is the outcome of the companys investment in Act 1998 and Article 82 of the EC Treaty.
and acquisition of a diverse range of electricity Introduction It said its decision was based on a formal generating assets and a growth of almost SSE owns around 10,500 megawatts MW complaint alleging abuse of an alleged four million in the number of energy supply of electricity generation capacity, including dominant position in the electricity customers over the past six years, following its share of joint ventures and associates.
generation sector at times of constraint its sustained policy of responsible pricing.
This makes it the second largest electricity on the Great Britain transmission system, generator across the UK and Ireland.
as well as informal enquiries.
SSE is GENERATION The capacity comprises almost 4,500MW co-operating fully with Ofgem.
It remains of gasand oil-fired capacity, 4,000MW of confident that its actions in electricity k Gas-fired power station availability 95%: coal-fired capacity with biomass co-firing generation have always been consistent coal station availability 91% capability, and over 2,000MW of renewable with the operation of a competitive market k Acquisition of Airtricity Holdings Ltd hydro, wind and dedicated biomass and believes that this process can be k Acquisition of Slough Heat and Power Ltd capacity.
This gives SSE diversity in fuels brought to a speedy conclusion.
k Operating consented onshore wind farm and, as a result, greater optionality in the capacity passed 1,000MW mark, with overall management of its power stations.
Performance Overview increase of 150MW since January 2008 Operating profit in Generation and Supply k Operating renewable energy capacity As at 31 March 2008, SSE supplied energy to rose by 12.7%, from 642.6m to 724.2m, passed 2,000MW mark 8.45 million customers within Great Britains contributing 52.3% of SSEs total operating k Operating consented renewable energy competitive electricity and gas supply market, profit during the year.
Total revenue for capacity passed 3,000MW mark with growth continuing in the new financial Generation and Supply was 14.26bn, which k New target for operating renewable year.
This makes it the second largest accounted for 89% of SSEs total revenue energy capacity of 4,000MW by 2013 supplier of energy in the UK, and the fastest in 2007 08, of which 5.61bn was in relation k Consent granted for extension to Barking growing.
Its responsibility to those customers to sales of electricity and gas to industrial, Power Ltd is to procure the electricity and gas they need commercial and domestic customers.
k New target adopted to reduce carbon and to arrange for it to be distributed to them The financial performance of Generation intensity of power generated by 50% through the relevant networks.
Under the and Supply has been reported excluding by 2020 British Electricity Trading and Transmission the impact of IAS 39 re-measurements Arrangements BETTA wholesale gas and because SSE does not believe this represents Generation Objectives wholesale electricity are transacted like underlying business performance.
In May 2007, the Energy White Paper any other commodity in a fully-competitive pointed out that the UK will need substantial market.
SSE purchases gas and, where During 2007 08, SSE generated 45.8 investment in new generation capacity over appropriate, some electricity via bilateral terrawatt-hours TWh of electricity, including the next two decades.
It also pointed out contracts and through the wholesale market power stations in which it has ownership or that the UKs diverse generation mix avoids the latter complementing the electricity contractual interest.
In addition, Airtricitys exposure to the risks associated with heavy produced from its own generation portfolio.
wind farms produced 0.8TWh of electricity dependency on a single fuel or technology during 2007 08, including 0.15TWh after its type, helps to maintain secure supplies of Under its integrated Generation and Supply acquisition by SSE in February 2008.
SSE also energy and provides the countrys electricity business model, SSEs power stations and purchased 9.9TWh of electricity via long-term system with the flexibility to accommodate fuel supply contracts are used to support contracts with other generators, including variations in demand and to respond to performance in electricity supply, mainly British Energy.
In the year, it supplied changes in fossil fuel prices.
through using flexibility and optionality to 28.2TWh of electricity to its domestic and respond to customer demand and market small business customers and 27.5TWh The same points apply to SSEs portfolio.
Generation and Supply is, was supplied under contract to industrial and key objectives in Generation are to ensure that therefore, assessed as a single value chain commercial customers.
Any net balances were it has a diverse portfolio of power stations, and this approach means, amongst other traded in the wholesale electricity market.
available to generate electricity and support things, that more sustained value can be created from SSEs balanced portfolio of SSE is the second assets, contracts and customers than largest electricity would be the case on a stand-alone basis.
generator across the UK and Ireland In January 2008, Ofgem confirmed that with 4,500MW of Britains competitive market in energy is gasand oil-fired working.
A month later, however, it launched capacity, 4,000MW an investigation into the markets in electricity of coal capacity and and gas for households and small businesses, over 2,000MW of using its powers under the Enterprise Act renewable capacity.
While it has stated it has no clear evidence of failure of the market, it is carrying out the investigation in response to public 2008 10.5 concern.
Ofgem expects to reach initial conclusions by September 2008.
In SSEs 2007 10.0 view, Ofgems original belief that there is 2006 10.0 no clear evidence of failure of the market is correct: indeed, the market is very competitive 2005 9.9 and provides customers with an excellent 2nd largest degree of choice across all aspects of 2004 5.8 electricity and gas supply.
