Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 05 Notes on the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 61 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES General information Scottish and Southern Energy plc the Company is a company domiciled in Scotland.
The address of the registered office is given on the back cover.
The Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Business Statement at pages 8 to 34.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 comprise those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
Under section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own income statement and related notes.
Basis of preparation Statement of compliance The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 28 May 2008.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and its interpretations as adopted by the European Union adopted IFRS.
Basis of measurement The financial statements of the Group and the Company are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: certain derivative financial instruments, financial instruments classified as available for sale and the assets and liabilities of the Group pension scheme.
The Directors believe the financial statements present a true and fair view.
The financial statements of the Group and Company are presented in pounds Sterling.
Operations and transactions conducted in currencies other than pounds Sterling are included in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Groups foreign currencies accounting policy included on page 63.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements conforming with adopted IFRS requires the use of certain accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher level of judgement or estimation are summarised at page 68.
As permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, the Group has disclosed additional information in respect of jointly controlled entities and associates, exceptional items and certain re-measurements on the face of the income statement to aid understanding of the Groups financial performance.
An item is treated as exceptional if it is considered unusual by nature and scale and of such significance that separate disclosure is required for the financial statements to be properly understood.
Certain re-measurements are re-measurements arising on certain commodity, interest rate and currency contracts which are accounted for as held for trading or as fair value hedges in accordance with the Groups policy for such financial instruments.
This excludes commodity contracts not treated as financial instruments under IAS 39 which are held for the Groups own use requirement.
The following accounting standards and interpretations have been adopted by Group from 1 April 2007: k IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures k IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Share Based Payments k IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives k Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures k IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment k IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Share Based Payments Group and Treasury Transactions There was no significant impact on the financial statements arising from the adoption of these standards.
The following published standards and interpretations are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group: k IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements k IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes k IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Assets, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction k IFRS 8 Operating Segments k Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements A Revised Presentation k Amendments to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs k Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidation and Separate Financial Statements k Amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations The impact of these new standards has not been fully analysed and this will be assessed in future accounting periods.
Restated amounts Certain balance sheet items have been reclassified as current and non-current assets or liabilities to enhance understanding of the prior year results and to aid comparability with the current year presentation.
No revision of carrying values has been made.
