Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 05 Notes on the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued 78 10.
The impairment charge reflects the reduction in the fair value of granted carbon allowances following the date of grant.
The value of carbon emissions liabilities was reduced by an identical amount resulting in nil impact on the income statement.
ii Development assets Development costs relate to the design, construction and testing of renewable generation devices which the Group believes will generate probable future economic benefits.
iii Wind farm developments Costs capitalised as development wind intangibles including options over land rights represent the costs incurred in bringing individual wind farm projects to the consented stage.
Costs associated with reaching the consent stage include planning application costs and environmental impact studies.
These may be costs incurred directly as part of the fair value exercise on acquisition of a controlling interest in a project.
At the point the development reaches the consent stage and is approved for construction, the carrying value is transferred to Property, Plant and Equipment note 11. iv Brands Included within brands is the Atlantic brand, acquired on the acquisition of Atlantic Electric and Gas Limited in administrative receivership during the year ended 31 March 2005.
In addition to this, the Airtricity brand used in Ireland has also been included.
The Group have assessed the economic life of brands to be 10 years and the brand is being amortised over this period.
The charge is reported as part of operating costs.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 79 v Other intangible assets Included within other intangible assets are application software license fees, software development work, software upgrades and purchased PC software packages.
These assets are amortised over 5 years.
Also included are customer lists and contracts associated with the acquisitions of CHP Supply Limited, Hills E&M Limited, Seeboard Trading Limited street lighting contracts, and the Supply business of Airtricity.
Amortisation is over the shorter of the contract term or five years.
The Company does not hold intangible assets.
Analysis of goodwill: 2008 2007 Goodwill description Cash-generating unit m m Airtricity As noted i 358.2 Swalec Supply ii 187.0 187.0 Medway Generation iii 22.2 22.2 Fiddlers Ferry and Ferrybridge Generation iii 17.7 17.7 Slough Heat and Power Generation iii 2.8 Hornsea SSE Hornsea Limited iv 56.2 56.2 Neos Neos Networks Limited v 7.8 7.8 Telia SSE Telecommunications Limited v 1.1 Connect South West Contracting vi 0.8 0.8 Eastern Contracting Contracting vi 0.9 0.9 Harrison Smith Batley Contracting vi 0.6 0.6 Hills E&M Contracting vi 3.7 659.0 293.2 Impairment review of goodwill balances Goodwill is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that amounts may be impaired.
The impairment test involves managements view of goodwill and its carrying value estimating the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit, which is the higher of fair value less costs to sell or the value in use.
Value in use calculations have been used to determine the recoverable amounts for the cash generating units noted above.
With the exception of Airtricity, these are based on five year projected cash flows extracted from the corporate business model which has been approved by the Executive and the Board.
Discount rates applied to the cash flows in determining recoverable amounts are derived from the Groups approved weighted average cost of capital.
The Generation and Supply business segment, is managed and accounted for as an integrated business unit.
Management have reviewed the relevant cash generating units within Generation and Supply for the purpose of impairment testing.
Where cash flows have been extrapolated beyond the period covered by the most recent corporate business model, the basis of so doing is noted.
The key assumptions applied in the value in use calculations used to determine the recoverable amounts for the individual cash generating units are as follows: i Airtricity The acquired assets of the Airtricity group included goodwill which was attributable to two cash generating units, Ireland wind farms 252.9m and UK wind farms 105.3m.
The impairment test on the attributed goodwill for each cash generating unit was based on updated discounted cash flow forecasts for the Airtricity group extracted from the 25-year acquisition model.
The pre-tax discount rates applied were 7.5% for onshore assets and 10.5% for offshore assets.
ii Supply The impairment test on the carrying value of goodwill relating to Swalec is based on an assessment of the recoverable amount of the Groups Electricity and Gas retail supply function.
Judgement has necessarily been applied to separate this as a separable cash generating unit given the integrated nature of the Generation and Supply business.
The projected cash flows of this cash generating unit have been assessed solely in order to comply with the requirements of IAS 36.
In projecting the gross margin for the business, factors such as market demand, customer retention, market share and forward wholesale energy prices are considered.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to cash flows was 7.6%.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 05 Notes on the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued 80 10.
Intangible Assets continued Impairment review of goodwill balances continued iii Generation The impairment test on the carrying value of goodwill relating to Medway, Fiddlers Ferry Ferrybridge and Slough Heat and Power is based on an assessment of the recoverable amount of the Groups combined Generation assets excluding wind farm assets, which are dealt with as separate cash generating units.
In projecting the gross margin for the combined Generation assets, factors such as market demand, market share and forward wholesale energy prices have been considered.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to cash flows of the Groups hydro, gas, biomass and coal plants ranged from 9% to 14.6%.
iv SSE Hornsea Limited The impairment test on the carrying value of goodwill associated with Hornsea has been carried out based on the recoverable amount of SSE Hornsea Limited.
This is based on projected cash flows which include management estimates of projected demand for gas storage, injection and withdrawal tariffs and wholesale gas prices.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to cash flows was 10.4%.
v Neos Networks Limited SSE Telecommunications Limited The impairment test on the carrying value of goodwill associated with Neos has been carried out based on the recoverable amount of Neos Networks Limited.
The discounted cash flow exercise was built around an estimated annual sales growth rate of 10%.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to these cash flows was 10.4%.
vi Contracting The impairment test on the carrying value of goodwill related to the acquisitions of Eastern Contracting, Connect South West, Harrison Smith Batley and, in the current financial year, Hills E&M were based on cash flow projections of the acquiring subsidiary entity, Southern Electric Contracting, which has successfully integrated these businesses into its operations.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to cash flows was 9%.
The carrying value of the goodwill associated with Harrison Smith Batley was reassessed as 0.6m in the year ended 31 March 2007.
In all cases management concludes that the projected cash flows are sufficient to support the carrying value of the recognised goodwill and the other cost generating unit assets.
Management believe that while cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, any reasonably possible changes to the key assumptions utilised in assessing recoverable amounts have been considered in determining the recoverable amounts of the cash generating units identified.
Managements approach to assessing the value in use takes into account past experience and other relevant external information.
Scotia Gas Networks investment in gas distribution networks The Groups share of Scotia Gas Networks investment in the gas distribution networks includes an amount of acquired goodwill.
In testing for impairment, management believe that both the fair value less costs to sell of the business and the value in use of the cash generating unit support the carrying value of goodwill inherent in the Groups financial statements.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow forecasts was 7.5%.
Goodwill is allocated to the following business segments: 2008 2007 m m Generation and Supply 587.9 226.9 Other businesses 71.1 66.3 659.0 293.2
