Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 03 Corporate Governance Report continued 44 4.
Nomination Committee External Audit Process responsibilities, operation and effectiveness, NOMINATION COMMITTEE k reviewed the effectiveness of the overall the conclusions of which were agreed and audit process for 2007 08, meeting with reported to the Board at its meeting in Role the Auditor and management separately March 2008.
The Nomination Committee reviews the to identify any areas of concern in the structure, composition and balance of the preparation of the financial statements: REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Board and leads the process for Board k reviewed and agreed the terms of appointments.
Before an appointment is appointment, areas of responsibility, Role made the Committee evaluates the skills, associated duties and scope of the audit The principal responsibilities of the knowledge and experience of the Board as set out in the engagement letter for Remuneration Committee are: to ensure that any new appointment the forthcoming year: complements these qualities.
Candidates k reviewed and agreed the audit fees, k formulation of remuneration policy and from a wide range of backgrounds are fees for non-recurring work and the approval of all aspects of the Executive considered and as part of the process for regulatory reporting fee: Directors remuneration, including identifying suitable candidates, the Committee k reviewed key accounting and audit bonuses and the granting of incentives utilises the assistance of a professional issues: and under the companys schemes: search firm.
The Committee reviews k reviewed recommendations made by the k ensuring that an appropriate proportion membership of all Board committees.
Auditor in its management letter and the of pay is linked to corporate and individual adequacy of managements response.
performance: and The Committee also reviews succession k review and approval of the Chairmans planning and leadership needs in the course Independence of Auditor fees.
of its work taking into account the risks and k reviewed the extent of non-audit services opportunities facing the company, and from provided by the Auditor in accordance Membership this identifies the skills and expertise with the established policy where: The members of the Remuneration required from the Board and senior a competitive tender process is required Committee who held office during the year management team.
where non-audit fees exceed a threshold and at the date of this report are set out of 30,000 for general advice and in Table C below.
Membership 75,000 for tax-related advice: The members of the Nomination the Committee must be satisfied that Activities in 2007 08 Committee who held office during the year the work was best handled by the During the year the Remuneration and at the date of this report are set out Auditors because of their knowledge Committee met five times.
of the Group: and the Committee must be satisfied that Full details of Directors remuneration, The Company Secretary is Secretary to the the objectivity and independence of the general policy and developments during Nomination Committee.
Auditors was not affected by the work the year are given in the Remuneration k reviewed changes in the Audit team: and Report set out on pages 50 to 56.
The Members do not take part in discussions k recommend to the Board that the Auditor Company Secretary is Secretary to the about their own appointment.
Chairman would not chair the meeting when it is dealing with the appointment of his Full disclosure of the non-audit fees paid Evaluation successor.
In this case the meeting would during the year is made in note 3 to the The annual evaluation was conducted by be chaired by a non-Executive Director Financial Statements.
the Committee of its composition, role and elected by the remaining members.
responsibilities, operation and effectiveness, Evaluation the conclusions of which were agreed and Activities in 2007 08 The annual evaluation was conducted by reported to the Board at its meeting in During the year the Nomination Committee the Committee of its composition, role and March 2008. met twice.
Table C Members of the Remuneration Committee Name Role Date of appointment resignation Susan Rice Committee Chairman and non-Executive Director Appointed November 2006 Richard Gillingwater Non-Executive Director Appointed July 2007 Sir Robert Smith Board Chairman Appointed November 2006 Sir Kevin Smith Non-Executive Director Appointed November 2004 David Payne Non-Executive Director Retired July 2007 Table D Members of the Nomination Committee Name Role Date of appointment resignation Sir Robert Smith Committee and Board Chairman Appointed January 2005 Ren Mdori Non-Executive Director Appointed November 2006 Susan Rice Non-Executive Director Appointed November 2007 Sir Kevin Smith Non-Executive Director Appointed November 2004 Ian Marchant Chief Executive Appointed October 2002 David Payne Non-Executive Director Retired July 2007 Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 45 7.
Health, Safety and Environmental Advisory Committee 10.
Accountability, Risk Management and Internal Control Following the retirement of David Payne, the ACCOUNTABILITY, RISK MANAGEMENT The Audit Committee, which: committee recommended the appointment AND INTERNAL CONTROL k assists the Board in the effective of Susan Rice as the Senior Independent discharge of the responsibilities for Director.
This appointment was made on The Board considers risk management financial reporting and internal control, 26 July 2007.
The committee also reviewed and the system of internal control to be acting independently of management: the membership of Board committees, fundamental to achieving the Groups strategy.
k ensures financial reports and formal and succession planning.
announcements represent an accurate, The system of internal control is the Boards clear and balanced assessment of the Evaluation overall responsibility.
Reviewing the system Groups position and prospects: The annual evaluation was conducted by and monitoring its effectiveness is delegated k reviews and ensures the effectiveness the Committee of its composition, role and to the Audit Committee and is reviewed at of operational and internal controls, the responsibilities, operation and effectiveness, least annually by the Board.
reliability of the information and accounting the conclusions of which were agreed and systems, and the implementation of reported to the Board at its meeting in The system of internal control is designed established policies and procedures: March 2008. to manage rather than eliminate the risk k monitors and reviews the effectiveness of failure to achieve business objectives and of the internal audit function through RISK COMMITTEE can provide only reasonable and not absolute regular reports from the internal assurance against material misstatement audit department: The Risk Committee comprises Alistair and loss.
k reviews the significant risks identified Phillips-Davies Chairman, Ian Marchant, by each business unit as well as the Gregor Alexander and senior managers The Board and the Audit Committee have mitigating action against those risks: from Energy Trading, Electricity Generation reviewed the effectiveness of the internal k maintains a close relationship with the and Finance.
It met 13 times during the control system in accordance with the Code external Auditors: and year to review and manage the operational for the period from 1 April 2007 to the date of k reviews the arrangements by which and financial risks and exposures in approval of this Annual Report.
No significant employees can in confidence raise Energy Trading, Generation, and Treasury.
failings or weaknesses have been identified.
concerns about any possible improprieties A member of the company secretariat team However, had there been, the Board confirms in financial and other matters.
is Secretary to the Risk Committee.
that appropriate action would have been taken.
The Executive Directors, who: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Internal control is maintained through an k monitor operational and financial organisation structure with clearly defined performance of the Group: The Executive Committee comprised all responsibilities, authority levels and lines k develop and implement Group strategy, the Executive Directors and other senior of reporting.
The key elements of the operational plans, policies, procedures managers.
The Chairman was Ian Marchant.
Groups internal control process are and budgets: It met 12 times during the year and was summarised below: k assess and control all Group risk: and responsible for all key management issues k monitor competitive forces in each areas arising from the business of the Group: the The Board, which: of operation.
implementation of the Group strategy: and k approves the policies, procedures monitoring the operational and financial and framework for the maintenance of The Risk Committee, which: performance and assessing and reviewing a sound and effective system of internal k supports the Audit Committee and risks arising from the Groups business.
control ensuring: management in managing risks and The Company Secretary was a member of the provision of quality internal reporting exposure in Energy Trading and Treasury: and Secretary to the Executive Committee.
by the Audit Committee and other k ensures that risk exposure is managed Board committees, management appropriately: Since the year end, the Executive Committee and internal audit: k sets and approves risk management has been replaced by several more business the provision of quality reporting from polices and trading strategies: specific leadership teams.
the external Auditors: k ensures the effectiveness of operations compliance with the Turnbull Guidance and internal controls: and HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL on Internal Control: and k ensures risks inherent in business ADVISORY COMMITTEE compliance with statutory and activities are understood and managed.
The Health, Safety and Environmental k reviews the significant risks identified The Health, Safety and Environmental Advisory Committee met three times during by each business unit as well as the Advisory Committee, which: the year and was responsible for ensuring mitigating action against those risks k together with the Audit Committee and that health, safety and environmental after review by the Audit Committee: management, ensures that the health, policies had been implemented, setting k approves and regularly reviews and safety and environmental policy targets and monitoring performance, and updates the Groups strategy and statements are being adhered to: promoting awareness of these issues business development: k sets health, safety and environmental throughout the Group.
k reviews performance through a system targets for the Group: and of reporting based on annual operating k monitors the performance of the Group The Committee members are Colin Hood and capital expenditure budgets: monthly against these targets.
Chairman, the Director of Human Resources, reviews against actual results, analysis the Group Safety and Environmental Manager of variances and evaluation of key The Internal Audit Department, which: and non-Executive Director, Sir Kevin Smith, performance indicators: k works with the business units to develop with Ian Marchant attending as appropriate.
k receives regular reports from the Chief and improve risk management tools and The Deputy Company Secretary is Secretary Executive, the Finance Director and processes in their business operations: to the Committee.
the Executive Directors: and k ensures that business risks are identified, k undertakes an annual evaluation managed and regularly reviewed and that of the Board, its committees and the key risks are reported to the Audit individual Directors.
