Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 43 3.
Audit Committee to the other members of the Board, if the BOARD COMMITTEES relevant financial experience and all Board so requests.
Committee members are expected to be During the year, the Board had six principal financially aware.
Ren Mdori has recent All Directors have access to the advice committees.
The terms of reference for all and relevant financial experience through and services of the Company Secretary.
committees are reviewed regularly and are his position as Finance Director of a major available for inspection on the companys international listed company.
The company continues to operate advanced website www.
performance coaching for some of the The Committee normally asks the Finance Executive Directors and for members of AUDIT COMMITTEE Director, Head of Group Audit and the external the senior management team which is Auditors to attend its meetings.
Senior designed to develop and enhance individual The Audit Committee assists the Board in management including the Group Treasurer, and Group performance.
the effective discharge of its responsibilities Group Financial Controller, Head of Energy for financial reporting and internal control.
Trading and Head of Portfolio Support may Performance Evaluation It acts independently of the Executive also attend to present reports.
The Board, the Board committees and the Directors.
individual Directors undergo an annual The Audit Committee had three meetings process of performance evaluation.
The In the discharge of its duties the Committee: during the year.
senior management team also participates in a performance evaluation programme.
k ensures that the companys financial Activities in 2007 08 reports represent an accurate, clear and During the year the Audit Committee During the year the Chairman conducted the balanced assessment of the companys undertook the following in order to discharge performance evaluation of the Board.
Each position and prospects: its responsibilities: Director completed detailed questionnaires k ensures the efficiency and monitors the which had been developed since the previous effectiveness of the companys operations Financial Statements years evaluation.
The questionnaires covered and internal control and risk management k reviewed the financial statements in the Board and committee processes, their functions: and the 2007 report and accounts and the effectiveness and where improvements k reviews the objectivity and independence interim results.
As part of this review could be made.
Reports were produced of the external Auditors taking into the Committee received from the Auditor on the key findings and the Chairman of consideration the scope of their work KPMG Audit Plc a report on their audit the Board and the committee Chairmen and fees paid for both audit and non of the annual report and accounts and reported these findings to the Board audit services.
their review of the interim results: and meeting in March 2008 for discussion.
k reviewed the annual and interim results Directors also completed detailed The Committee has unrestricted access to announcements.
questionnaires on individual performance company documents and information as well which formed the basis of the one-to-one as to employees of the company and the Control Environment and Risk Management meetings with the Chairman.
The Audit Committee k received six-monthly reviews by Group for evaluating the Chairman was managed Chairman reports the outcome of meetings Audit setting out the audit programme, by the Senior Independent Director which to the Board.
its progress against the programme, the involved a separate meeting of the nonresults of key audits and other significant Executive Directors chaired by the Senior Membership and Meetings findings, the adequacy of managements Independent Director.
The members of the Audit Committee during response and the timeliness of resolution the year and at the date of this report are set of actions: Following the review, the Directors have out in Table B below.
k reviewed and agreed the Group Audit concluded that the Board and its committees Plan for the year ending 31 March 2008: operate effectively, continued to set clear The Deputy Company Secretary is Secretary k received six-monthly reports from Energy objectives and focussed on the correct of the Audit Committee.
Trading and Treasury setting out strategy, areas.
Each of the Directors continued to market developments, any significant make an effective contribution to the work All members of the Committee are risks and the controls in place to mitigate of the Board and was well informed and independent non-Executive Directors.
these risks: demonstrated full commitment to his Membership is determined by the Board, k received six-monthly reviews from or her duties.
Some areas for improvement on the recommendation of the Nomination Group Audit on the Internal Control Risk were identified and these will be taken Committee and in consultation with the Assessment setting out the Group Risk forward in 2008.
Its terms of Map and Residual Risk Map both of which reference are set by the Board and are had been reviewed by the Executive The Board was satisfied that the review reviewed regularly.
Committee: and of its performance was a worthwhile k received the annual Post-Investment exercise and the Directors had participated In terms of the Code, at least one member Appraisal Report and Independent in an open and frank basis.
of the Committee must have recent and Project Review.
Table B Members of the Audit Committee Name Role Date of appointment resignation Ren Mdori Committee Chairman and non-Executive Director Appointed June 2003 Nick Baldwin Non-Executive Director Appointed November 2006 Richard Gillingwater Non-Executive Director Appointed May 2007 David Payne Non-Executive Director Retired July 2007
