 Company accounting policies   As used in the financial statements and related notes, the term d Taxation Company refers to SSL International plc.
The separate financial statements The charge for taxation is based on the loss profit for the year and takes  of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985 and into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practices.
treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
A list of principal subsidiary undertakings is presented on page 87. Credit is taken for advance corporation tax written off in previous years  when it is recovered against corporation tax liabilities.
Basis of preparation In accordance with FRS 19, deferred tax is provided where a taxation The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as liability will arise as a result of transactions or events which have occurred by required by the Companies Act 1985.
As permitted by the Act, the separate  the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally it is regarded that they will be recovered.
Provision is made at rates expected Accepted Accounting Practices UK GAAP.
The accounting policies under to be applicable when the liabilities or assets are likely to crystallise.
UK GAAP are presented below.
 The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost e Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of basis, with the exception of financial instruments as described below.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
In accordance with exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities  denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange Section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account.
The profit for the financial year dealt ruling at the balance sheet date.
Gains or losses on transactions are included in the profit and loss account.
with in the financial statements of the parent company, SSL International plc,  is disclosed in note x.
The Company has taken the exemption from the f Derivative financial instruments requirement to prepare a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 In accordance with exemptions under FRS 29: Financial Instruments: revised 1996 Cash flow statements.
Disclosures, the Company has not presented the financial instruments The following paragraphs describe the main accounting policies.
 disclosures required by the standard, as disclosures which comply with the These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.
standard are included in the consolidated financial statements.
a Tangible fixed assets The Company uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure  Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
to foreign exchange risk and interest rate movements.
The Company does Depreciation is provided to write tangible fixed assets down to a residual value not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
over their estimated useful economic lives at the following annual rates: With the exception of derivative financial instruments, and those hedged  Plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis over a period items forming part of a fair value hedge, financial instruments are held at of between 415 years.
b Intangible assets Hedge accounting  The accounting for the Companys various hedging activities is Software developments and licences capitalised are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and are amortised on a straight-line basis over detailed below: their estimated useful economic lives as follows: i Transaction exposure hedging  software development: 510 years Forward currency contracts hedging transaction exposures are fair software licences: over the length of the licence valued through the profit and loss account.
 c Investments Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provisions for any impairment.
         97    Company accounting policies  continued  f Derivative financial instruments continued g Share-based payments ii Fair value hedges The Company operates a number of employee share schemes.
The cost  Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges to the Company of making awards in the form of shares or rights to shares when they hedge the Companys exposure to changes in the fair value of a under these schemes is charged to the profit and loss account as an recognised asset or liability.
Any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging employee expense over the period to which the employees performance  instrument is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
The Company issues equity settled share-based payments to change in the fair value of the hedged item, attributable to the hedged risk, certain employees of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Equity is adjusted against the carrying value of the hedged item and recognised settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the grant date  immediately in the profit and loss account.
using an appropriate valuation model, taking into account the terms and t Derivative financial instruments qualifying for fair value hedge conditions precedent at the time of grant.
The impact of any non-market accounting are principally foreign currency and interest rate swaps.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined  iii Cash flow hedges by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted and the Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges number of equity instruments which eventually vest.
At each balance sheet when they hedge the Companys exposure to variability in cash flows that is date, the Company revises its estimate of the number of instruments that  attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original Changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging instrument designated estimates, if any, in the profit and loss account, and a corresponding as a cash flow hedge are recognised directly in equity to the extent that the adjustment to equity over the remaining period.
When awards are made to  hedge is effective.
To the extent the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value t employees of subsidiary undertakings and the fair value of the award is not are recognised in profit or loss.
recharged to the subsidiary, the award is treated as a capital contribution Discontinuance of hedge accounting to the subsidiary, with a corresponding increase in the cost of investment.
 Hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively when the hedging h Dividend income instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies Dividend income from subsidiary undertakings is recognised within for hedge accounting.
other income at the point the dividend has been declared.
Dividends  declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised in the profit and loss account.
 i Related party transactions t The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available in FRS 8: Related Party Disclosures and has not disclosed transactions or balances with entities which form part of the Group.
            98 Financial statements Annual Report and Accounts 2008  
