62880 StCchV13 p40to112:62880 StCchV13 p40to112 1 7 08 17:56 Page 101 Independent auditors report to the members of Stagecoach Group plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Stagecoach implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent Group plc for the year ended 30 April 2008 which comprise the Balance Sheet misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial and the related notes.
These parent company financial statements have been statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on We have reported separately on page 40 on the Group financial statements Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit of Stagecoach Group plc for the year ended 30 April 2008. includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an Respective responsibilities of directors and assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the auditors Directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys remuneration report and the parent company financial statements in circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 23. explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in Opinion writing.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 April 2008: audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors the Directors report is consistent with the parent company financial remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes that accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and specific information presented in the Operating and Financial Review that is the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the parent cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial Glasgow statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report and the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report.
We consider the 1 July 2008 Stagecoach Group plc | page 101
