Notes to the consolidated financial statements 20 Derivative financial instruments continued Cash flow hedges The Group employs forward foreign exchange contracts and commodity pricing contracts to hedge cash flow risk associated with forecast transactions.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts are as follows: 31 March 2008 2007 m m Euro 70 139 US dollar 23 38 Canadian dollar 5 105 Norwegian krone 8 Sterling 77 285 Singapore dollar 18 10 Other 15 9 Gains and losses recognised in the cash flow hedge reserve in equity Note 27 on forward foreign exchange and commodity pricing contracts as of 31 March 2008 will be released to the income statement at various dates up to 12 months from the balance sheet date.
The Group hedges the interest cost of certain of its borrowings through the use of interest rate swaps.
Gains and losses recognised in the cash flow hedge reserve in equity on interest rate swaps as of 31 March 2008 will be released to the income statement at various dates up to until the maturity of the underlying borrowings.
The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swaps is 122 million 2007 nil million.
Fair value hedges The Group employs currency and interest rate swap contracts to hedge the currency and interest rate risks associated with its borrowings.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding interest rate and currency swap contracts applied in fair value hedging relationships as of 31 March 2008 were 164 million and 200 million respectively 2007 457 million and 200 million respectively.
Net investment hedges The Group employs currency swap contracts to hedge the currency risk associated with its net investments in subsidiaries located primarily in the USA and Europe.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding currency swap contracts applied in net investment hedging relationships as of 31 March 2008 were 200 million 31 March 2007 182 million.
The fair value loss of 17 million 2007 13 million gain on translation of the currency swap contracts to sterling at the balance sheet date was recognised in the translation reserve in shareholders equity Note 27.
In addition, of the Groups borrowings, a total of 756 million 2007 566 million is designated as hedges of the net investments in overseas subsidiaries.
Interest rate derivatives held for trading Interest rate caps and some of the Groups interest rate swap contracts hedge the Groups exposure to interest rate risk, but do not qualify for hedge accounting.
The notional amounts of the outstanding interest rate caps and interest rate swap contracts not designated within hedge relationships as of 31 March 2008 were 83 million and 191 million, respectively 2007 198 million and nil million.
Trading contracts Commodity pricing contracts held for trading relate to the Groups commodity trading activities.
21 Financial risk factors Management of financial risk The main financial risks faced by the Group are credit risk, liquidity risk, and market risks, which include interest rate risk, currency risk and certain commodity price risks.
The Board regularly reviews these risks and approves written policies covering the use of financial instruments to manage these risks and set overall risk limits.
The Group Finance Director retains the overall responsibility and management of financial risk for the Group.
Most of the Groups financing, interest rate and foreign exchange risk are managed through the Group treasury company, Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC, whose operations are controlled by its Board.
The treasury company is chaired by the Group Finance Director and has other Board members who are independent of the treasury function.
The Board of Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC approves policies and procedures setting out permissible funding and hedging instruments, and a system of authorities for the approval of transactions and exposures within the Group Board approved limits.
Group interest rate and currency exposures are concentrated either in the treasury company or in appropriate holding companies through market-related transactions with Group subsidiaries.
These positions are managed by the treasury company within its authorised limits.
Commodity price risks are managed through divisional commodity trading functions in the USA and Europe, whose operations are controlled by the divisional Executive Committee.
The committee meets on a periodic basis and is responsible for ratifying general strategy and overviewing performance on a monthly basis.
Commodity price contracts are categorised as being held either for trading or used for hedging price exposures.
Commodity contracts held for trading within the Group are limited, confined only to tightly controlled areas within the sugar and corn pricing operations.
124 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 21 Financial risk factors continued The derivative financial instruments approved by the Board of Tate & Lyle PLC to manage financial risks include swaps, both interest rate and currency, swaptions, caps, forward rate agreements, financial and commodity forward contracts and options, and commodity futures.
Market risks Tate & Lyle operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risks arising from commercial transactions, and from recognised assets, liabilities and investments in overseas operations.
T The Groups policy requires subsidiaries to hedge transactional currency exposures against their functional currency once the transaction is committed or highly probable, mainly through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts.
The amounts deferred in equity from derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are released to the income statement and offset against the movement in underlying transactions only when the forecast transactions affect the income statement.
T The Group manages the foreign exchange exposure to net investments in overseas operations, particularly in the United States and Europe, by maintaining a percentage of net debt in US dollars and euro to mitigate the effect of these risks.
This is achieved by borrowing principally in US dollar and euros, which provide a partial match for the Groups major foreign currency assets.
A weakening of the US dollar and euro against sterling would result in exchange gains on net debt denominated in these currencies which would be offset against the losses on the underlying foreign currency assets.
At the year end, net debt excluding the Groups share of joint venture net debt amounting to 1,036 million was held in the following currencies: net borrowings of US dollars 81% 2007 69%, euro 23% 2007 20%, other currencies 0% 2007 8% and sterling net deposits of 4% 2007 net borrowings of 3%.
The Groups interest cost through the income statement is impacted by changes in the relevant exchange rates.
The following table, as required by IFRS 7, illustrates only the Groups sensitivity to the fluctuation of the major currencies on its financial assets and liabilities, as defined and set out in Note 19.
Sensitivity is calculated on financial assets and liabilities as of 31 March denominated in non-functional currencies for all operating units within the Group.
The percentage movement applied to each currency is an approximation based on the average movements in the previous three reporting periods.
31 March 2008 31 March 2007 Income Income statement Equity statement Equity m m m m GBP USD 5% change 135 128 GBP EUR 5% change 214 24 The Group also manages its foreign exchange exposure to net investments in overseas operations through the use of currency swap contracts.
The amount deferred in equity from derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges is offset against the foreign currency translation effect of the net investment in overseas operations, and is released to the income statement upon disposal of those investments.
The Group has an exposure to interest rate risk, arising principally from changes in US dollar, sterling and euro interest rates.
This risk is managed by fixing or capping portions of debt using interest rate derivatives to achieve a target level of fixed floating rate net debt, which aims to optimise net finance expense and reduce volatility in reported earnings.
The Groups policy is that between 30% and 75% of Group net debt excluding the Groups share of joint venture net debt is fixed or capped excluding out-of-the-money caps for more than one year and that no interest rates are fixed for more than 12 years.
At 31 March 2008, the longest term of any fixed rate debt held by the Group was until June 2016 2007 same.
The proportion of net debt excluding the Groups share of joint venture net debt that was fixed or capped for more than one year was 62% 2007 58%.
If the interest rates applicable to the Groups floating rate debt rise fall from the levels at the end of March 2008 by an average of 100 basis points over the year to 31 March 2009, Group profit before tax will reduce increase by approximately 4 million 2007 3 million respectively.
In 2008 a cash flow hedging relationship was established to hedge floating rate interest payments on 122 million of the Groups borrowings.
The Group does not expect this hedging relationship to have any material impact on equity.
Movements in interest rates will impact the fair value of the Groups fixed and capped rate debt.
If the interest rates applicable to the Groups fixed and capped rate debt were to rise by 1% from the levels at 31 March 2008, the fair value of the debt would reduce by approximately 27 million 2007 17 million.
If interest rates were to fall by 1% from the levels at 31 March 2008, the fair value of the debt would increase by approximately 29 million 2007 17 million.
Tate & Lyle participates mainly in four markets: food and beverage: industrial: pharmaceutical and personal care: and animal feed.
Food and beverage and industrial ingredients are the most significant.
All ingredients are produced from renewable crops, predominantly corn maize and sugar cane.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 125 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR managementriskPrice  ranslationexposure ransactionexposure  Notes to the consolidated financial statements 21 Financial risk factors continued Tate & Lyle is exposed to movements in the future prices of commodities in those domestic and international markets where the Group buys and sells corn, sugar and energy for production.
Commodity futures, forwards and options are used where available to hedge inventories and the costs of raw materials for unpriced and prospective contracts not covered by forward product sales.
In most cases, these hedging contracts mature within one year and are either traded on organised exchanges or over the counter.
The Groups Sugar Trading business trades sugar on the world market, buying and selling the physical commodity and taking positions within the framework of Board-approved limits to achieve planned target results.
The positions include physical commodity contracts mainly of white and raw sugar and derivative instruments such as futures and options.
All commodity pricing contracts and derivatives in the Sugar Trading business are classified as held for trading and fair value gains and losses taken through the income statement.
The table below illustrates the sensitivity of the Groups commodity pricing contracts as of 31 March to the price movement of commodities.
The percentage movement applied to each commodity product is based on an approximation of the average movements in the last three years.
31 March 2008 31 March 2007 Income Income statement Equity statement Equity m m m m Corn 30% change 43 2 Sugar 20% change 1 6 The majority of the Group commodity pricing contracts are held for trading and changes in mark-to-market values of these contracts are taken directly into the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity from commodity pricing contracts designated as cash flow hedges are released to the income statement and offset against the movement in underlying transactions when they occur.
Counterparty credit risk arises from the placing of deposits and entering into derivative financial instrument contracts with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures inherent within the Groups outstanding receivables.
The Group manages credit risk by entering into financial instrument contracts only with highly credit-rated authorised counterparties which are reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
In addition, the Sugar Trading business has access to broker facilities, on standard terms, to cover initial and variation margin calls.
The Group has Board approved maximum counterparty exposure limits for specified banks and financial institutions based on the long-term credit ratings of Standard & Poors and Moodys typically single A long-term credit ratings or higher.
Trading limits assigned to commercial customers are based on ratings from Dun & Bradstreet and Credit Risk Monitor.
In cases where published financial ratings are not available or inconclusive, credit application, reference checking, and obtaining of customers confidential financial information such as liquidity and turnover ratio, are required to evaluate customers credit worthiness.
Counterparties positions are monitored on a regular basis to ensure that they are within the approved limits and there are no significant concentrations of credit risks.
The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk as follows: 31 March 2008 31 March 2007 m m Cash and cash equivalents 165 189 Trade and other receivables 686 622 Derivatives financial instruments assets 311 138 The Groups trade receivables are short term in nature and largely comprise amounts receivable from consumers and business customers.
Included in trade receivables are amounts received of 50 million 2007 95 million in respect of securitised receivables, which are also included in current borrowings.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large, unrelated and internationally dispersed.
The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk and ensures maximum flexibility in meeting changing business needs, by maintaining access to a wide range of funding sources, including capital markets and bank borrowings.
Capital market issues outstanding at 31 March 2008 include the US$300 million 6.125% 144A bond maturing in 2011, the 200 million 6.50% bond maturing in 2012, the US$500 million 5.00% 144A bond maturing in 2014 and the US$250 million 6.625% 144A bond maturing in 2016.
The Group ensures that it has sufficient undrawn committed bank facilities to provide liquidity back-up for its US commercial paper programme and other short-term money market borrowing for the foreseeable future.
During the year ended 31 March 2008, Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC arranged a US$1 billion five year committed club facility with a core of highly rated banks to replace certain other committed bank facilities.
The Group has committed bank facilities of US$1,110 million of which US$110 million mature in 2009 and US$1 billion mature in 2012.
These facilities are unsecured and contain common financial covenants for Tate & Lyle and its subsidiary companies that the pre-exceptional and amortisation interest cover ratio should not be less than 2.5 times and the multiple of net debt to EBITDA, as defined in our financial covenants, should not be greater than 4.0 times.
The Group monitors compliance against all its financial obligations and it is Group policy to manage the consolidated balance sheet so as to operate well within these covenanted restrictions at all times.
The majority of the Groups borrowings are raised through the Group treasury company, Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC, and are then on-lent to the business units on an arms length basis.
126 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008  managementriskCredit Notes to the consolidated financial statements 21 Financial risk factors continued Current Group policy is to ensure that, after subtracting the total of undrawn committed facilities, no more than 10% of gross debt matures within 12 months and no more than 35% has a maturity within two and a half years.
At the year end, after subtracting total undrawn committed facilities, there was no debt maturing within 12 months or within two and a half years 2007 none and 25%.
The average maturity of the Groups gross debt was 5.8 years 2007 6.2 years.
At the year end the Group held cash and cash equivalents of 165 million 2007 189 million and committed facilities of 559 million 2007 312 million of which 438 million 2007 236 million were undrawn.
These resources are maintained to provide liquidity back-up and to meet the projected maximum cash outflow from debt repayment, capital expenditure and seasonal working capital needs foreseen for at least a year into the future at any one time.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
31 March 2008 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Liquidity analysis m m m Borrowings 231 395 414 Interest on borrowings 48 167 86 Trades and other payables 447 14 10 Derivatives contracts receipts 388 156 39 Derivatives contracts payments 393 134 39 Commodity contracts 265 85 31 March 2007 1 year 1-5 years 5 years m m m Borrowings 96 205 618 Interest on borrowings 48 180 125 Trade and other payables 401 13 10 Derivatives contracts receipts 699 137 56 Derivatives contracts payments 695 124 54 Commodity contracts 260 25 Included in borrowings are 2,394,000 of 6.5% cumulative preference shares.
Only one years worth of interest payable on these cumulative preference shares is included in the less than one year category above.
Interest on borrowings is calculated based on borrowings held at year end without taking into account future issues.
Floating-rate interest is calculated using forward interest rates derived from interest rate yield curves as at year end.
Derivative contracts include currency swaps, forward exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, and interest rate caps.
All commodity pricing contracts such as options and futures are shown separately under commodity contracts.
Commodity contracts include only net settled commodity derivative contracts and gross settled commodity purchase contracts with negative fair values.
Purchase contracts outflows represent actual contractual cashflows under the purchase contracts and not their fair values.
Cash outflows from the purchase contracts are offset by cash inflows received from sale contracts: however, these inflows are not included as part of this analysis.
Financial liabilities denominated in currencies other than Sterling are converted to Sterling using year end exchange rates.
The Groups primary objectives in managing its capital are to safeguard the business as a going concern: to maintain sufficient financial flexibility to undertake its investment plans: to retain as a minimum an investment grade credit rating which enables consistent access to debt capital markets, and to optimise capital structure in order to reduce the cost of capital.
The Groups financial profile and level of financial risk is assessed on a regular basis in the light of changes to the economic conditions, business environment, changes to the Groups business profile and the risk characteristics of its businesses.
During the current financial year, in light of recent disposals the Group has returned capital to shareholders through an on-market share repurchase programme.
33,627,000 shares were re-purchased for a total cost of 159 million, of which 30,327,000 were cancelled and the balance held in treasury.
The total number of shares in treasury at 31 March 2008 was 2,755,073.
The share re-purchase programme is calculated to have added 0.3 pence to earnings per share during the year ended 31 March 2008, after allowing for an estimate of the opportunity cost.
Tate & Lyle has contractual relationships with Moodys and Standard and Poors S&P for the provision of credit ratings.
At 31 March 2008, the long-term credit ratings from these agencies remain unchanged from the prior year at Baa2 and BBB, respectively.
It is the Groups policy to keep the rating agencies informed of all major developments.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 127 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR 
