Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Group accounting policies b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional Basis of consolidation currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of a Subsidiaries the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the from the settlement of such transactions and from the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally translation at period end exchange rates of monetary assets accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised voting rights and taking into account the existence of potential in the income statement, except when deferred in equity voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net date on which control is transferred to the Group.
fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for c Group entities the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The recognised From 1 April 2004, the results and financial position of all the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of Groups entities that have a functional currency different from a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date the presentational currency are translated into the presentation of acquisition.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated currency as follows: at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the identifiable i assets and liabilities, including goodwill and fair value assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
adjustments for each balance sheet presented, Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial are translated at the closing rate at the date of that statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies balance sheet: used into line with those used by the Group.
All inter-company ii income and expenses for each income statement are transactions and balances between Group entities are translated at average exchange rates as a reasonable eliminated on consolidation.
approximation to the rates prevailing on the transaction b Joint ventures dates: and An entity is regarded as a joint venture if the Group has joint iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as control over its operating and financial policies.
The Groups a separate component of equity.
interests in jointly-controlled entities are accounted for by Prior to 1 April 2004, exchange differences were recognised proportionate consolidation, whereby the Groups share of the in retained earnings.
joint ventures income and expenses, assets and liabilities and cash flows are combined on a line-by-line basis with similar On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the items in the Groups financial statements.
Where necessary, translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of adjustments are made to the financial statements of joint borrowings and other currency instruments designated as ventures to bring the accounting policies used into line with hedges of such investments, are taken to equity.
The Group recognises the portion When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences of gains or losses on the sale of assets to the joint venture that have accumulated since 1 April 2004 are recognised that is attributable to the other venturers.
The Group does not in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
recognise its share of profits or losses from the joint venture that result from the Groups purchase of assets from the joint Property, plant and equipment venture until it resells the assets to an external entity.
Land and buildings mainly comprise manufacturing sites and c Associates administrative facilities.
An entity is regarded as an associate if the Group has Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost significant influence, but not control, over its operating and less depreciation and impairment.
Historical cost includes financial policies.
Significant influence generally exists where expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition the Group holds more than 20% and less than 50% of the of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets shareholders voting rights.
Associates are accounted for carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, under the equity method whereby the Groups income as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic statement includes its share of their profits and losses and benefits associated with the expenditure will flow to the the Groups balance sheet includes its share of their net assets.
Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial All repairs and maintenance expenditures are charged to statements of associates to bring the accounting policies used the income statement during the financial period in which into line with those used by the Group.
When the Groups share they are incurred.
of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred to allocate the cost or revalued amount of each asset to obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
its residual value over its useful economic life as follows: Foreign currency translation Freehold land: No depreciation a Functional and presentational currency Freehold buildings: 20 to 50 years Items included in the financial statements of each of the Leasehold property: Period of the lease Groups entities are measured using the currency of the Bulk liquid storage tanks: 12 to 20 years primary economic environment in which the entity operates Plant and machinery: 3 to 28 years the functional currency.
The consolidated financial The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the at each balance sheet date and adjusted if appropriate.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
100 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Group accounting policies continued d Other intangible assets Other intangible assets mainly include certain development Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing expenditure and software costs.
Costs incurred on the disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are development projects relating to the design and testing included in the income statement.
of new or improved products are recognised as intangible assets when the IAS38 recognition criteria are met.
Leased assets Capitalised development costs are amortised from the Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group commencement of the commercial production of the product assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership on a straight-line basis over the period of its expected benefit.
are classified as finance leases.
Assets held under finance Research and other development expenditures are recognised leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair value of the as an expense as incurred.
Development costs previously leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in payments.
The corresponding leasing commitments, net a subsequent period.
of finance charges, are included in liabilities.
Impairment Leasing payments are analysed between capital and interest Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject components so that the interest element is charged to the to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
income statement over the period of the lease at a constant In addition, assets under the course of construction are periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the not depreciated and are subject to annual impairment review.
Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are Depreciation on assets held under finance leases is charged reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in to the income statement.
circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount All other leases are treated as operating leases with annual by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable rentals charged to the income statement, net of any incentives amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets granted to the lessee, over the term of the lease.
fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets other than goodwill are Intangible assets grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately a Goodwill identifiable cash inflows.
Goodwill is allocated to units Goodwill is calculated as the difference between the fair value representing the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored of the consideration exchanged in a business combination, by the Groups Board of directors for internal management including directly attributable acquisition costs, and the net fair purposes.
Further details are given in Note 3. values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and is capitalised.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and Financial instruments whenever there is an indication of impairment and is carried a Available-for-sale financial assets at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Equity instruments held by the Group and designated as Where the acquired interest in the net fair value of the available-for-sale are carried at fair value, with movements identifiable assets and liabilities exceeds the cost of the in fair value recognised directly in equity.
Cumulative fair business combination, the excess is recognised immediately value gains or losses on an asset are recycled through the in the income statement.
income statement when the asset is disposed or impaired.
A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the Gains and losses on the disposal of a business component security below its cost is considered as an indicator that include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the the securities are impaired.
b Loans and receivables b Patents and other intellectual property Non-current and current receivables and loans granted are Patents and other intellectual property are shown at historical recognised initially at fair value and thereafter carried at amortised cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
cost less provisions for impairment.
Movements in carrying Where the assets are acquired as part of a business value are recognised in the income statement.
combination, historical cost is based on their fair values as at the date of the combination.
Amortisation of the assets c Borrowings is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of their Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of expected benefit.
Where borrowings are designated as hedged items under fair value hedges, they are subsequently c Other acquired intangible assets remeasured for fair value changes in respect of the hedged Other acquired intangible assets are intangible assets arising risk with such changes recognised in the income statement.
on consolidation of acquired businesses and include brands, Otherwise, borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised recipes, customer relationships and supplier networks.
cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction Amortisation of the assets is recognised on a straight-line costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income basis over the period of their expected benefit.
statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
d Commodity trading instruments Commodity instruments acquired for trading purposes are carried at fair value.
Movements in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 101 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Group accounting policies continued Where no market prices are available, the fair value of financial liabilities is calculated with reference to discounted expected e Commodity and treasury hedging instruments future cash flows.
Under IAS39, hedging relationships are categorised by type and must meet strict criteria to qualify for hedge accounting.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable i Cash flow hedges value with the exception of certain items of merchandisable Hedges of firm commitments and highly probable forecast agricultural commodities which are stated at market value, transactions, including forecast intra-group transactions in line with regional industry accounting practices.
that are expected to affect consolidated profit or loss, are designated as cash flow hedges.
To the extent that Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct movements in the fair values of these instruments labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in effectively offset the underlying risk being hedged they are bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
recognised in the hedging reserve in equity until the period Cost is calculated using the first in first out or weighted during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit average cost methods, appropriate to the materials and or loss, at which point the cumulative gain or loss is production processes involved.
Net realisable value represents recognised in the income statement, offsetting the the estimated selling price less all estimated costs to value of the hedged transaction.
completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
ii Fair value hedges Hedges against the movement in fair value of recognised Cash and cash equivalents assets and liabilities are designated as fair value hedges.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held To the extent that movements in the fair values of these at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments instruments effectively offset the underlying risk being with original maturities of three months or less, and bank hedged they are recognised in the income statement overdrafts which are not considered to be borrowings in nature.
by offset against the hedged transaction.
iii Hedges of net investments Share capital Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation are Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs designated as net investment hedges.
To the extent directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in that movements in the fair values of these instruments equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
effectively offset the underlying risk being hedged they Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity are recognised in the translation reserve until the period share capital and holds that share either directly as treasury during which a foreign operation is disposed of or partially shares or indirectly within an ESOP trust, the consideration disposed of, at which point the cumulative gain or loss paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs is recognised in profit or loss, offsetting the cumulative net of income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to difference recognised on the translation of the the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, net investment.
Where such shares are subsequently Hedge accounting is discontinued at the point when the sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any hedging relationship no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the In the case of cash flow hedging relationships, the cumulative related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable movement in the fair value of the hedging instrument to the Companys equity holders.
These shares are used to previously recognised in equity up to that point is retained satisfy share options granted to employees under the Groups there until the forecast transaction affects profit or loss, share option schemes.
The trustee of the ESOP trust unless the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, purchases the Companys shares on the open market using in which case the cumulative movement in fair value is loans made by the Company or other loans guaranteed transferred to profit or loss immediately.
Movements in the by the Company.
fair value of hedging instruments where the relationship failed to meet the IAS39 hedge accounting criteria or where the Provisions movement represents the ineffective portion of a qualifying Provisions for liabilities and charges are recognised when hedging relationship are recognised in the income statement the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a immediately as other income and expense or net finance result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow expense, as appropriate.
of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably measured.
If the effect is material, f Embedded derivatives provisions are measured using expected future cash flows Where an embedded derivative is not closely related to the discounted at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market host contract and where the host contract itself is not already assessments of the time value of money and, where recognised at fair value, movements in the fair value of the appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
The impact embedded derivative are separated from the associated of unwinding any discount is taken to finance expense.
transaction and, except where the embedded derivative is designated as a cash flow hedging instrument, recognised Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract g Fair valuation are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations Fair values are based on market values where they are under the contract.
For unlisted securities the Group establishes fair value using valuation techniques.
These include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other similar instruments and discounted cash flow analysis.
102 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Group accounting policies continued A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on Income taxes retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such The charge for current tax is based on the results for the year as age, years of service and compensation.
as adjusted for items which are non-taxable or disallowed.
It is calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which enacted by the balance sheet date.
the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets method in respect of temporary differences arising from to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service differences between the carrying amount of assets and in the current and prior periods.
liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable profit.
In principle, The amounts recognised in the balance sheet in respect of deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary defined benefit pension plans are the present value of the differences except as noted below and deferred tax assets defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for profits will be available against which deductible temporary actuarial gains or losses charged or credited to equity and differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are past service costs.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated not recognised if the temporary differences arise from goodwill annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit or from the initial recognition other than in a business credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future which affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where Past service costs are recognised immediately in income, the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on difference and it is probable that the temporary difference the employees remaining in service for a specified period of will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Deferred tax is calculated using the enacted or substantively Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience enacted rates that are expected to apply when the asset or adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are liability is settled.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the charged or credited to equity immediately.
income statement, except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax Where the actuarial valuation of a scheme demonstrates that is also dealt with in equity.
the scheme is in surplus, the recognised asset is limited to that for which the Group expects to benefit in future by Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate refunds or a reduction in contribution.
to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions a net basis.
to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group Revenue recognition has no further payment obligations once the contributions a Sales of goods and services have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as Sales comprise the amount receivable in the ordinary course employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid of business, net of value added and sales taxes, for goods contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a and services provided.
Sales are recognised at the point or cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
points at which the Group has performed its obligations in connection with the contractual terms of the sales agreement, b Other post-employment obligations and in exchange obtains the right to consideration.
Some Group companies provide post-employment healthcare benefits to their retirees.
The entitlement to these benefits is b Interest income usually conditional on the employee remaining in service up Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service using the effective interest method.
The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over c Dividend income the period of employment using an accounting methodology Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive similar to that for defined benefit pension plans.
Actuarial gains payment is established.
and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity Employee benefits immediately.
These obligations are valued annually by a Pension obligations independent qualified actuaries.
Group companies operate various pension schemes.
The schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trustee payments to insurance companies or trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 103 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
