Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Presentation of financial statements New IFRS standards and interpretations adopted From 1 April 2007 the following standards, amendments General information and interpretations became effective and were adopted The principal activities of Tate & Lyle PLC are the by the Group: development, manufacture and marketing of food and industrial ingredients that have been made from renewable IFRIC8 Scope of IFRS2 Share-based Payment: resources.
The Group operates more than 50 production IFRIC9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives: facilities and in numerous partnerships and joint ventures IFRIC10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment: throughout Europe, the Americas and South East Asia.
IFRIC11 IFRS2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions: IFRS4 Insurance Contracts revised Implementation The Company is a public limited company incorporated Guidance: and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The Company has IFRS7 Financial instruments: Disclosures: and its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Basis of preparation The adoption of these amendments and interpretations has These consolidated financial statements are presented on not had a significant impact on the Groups profit for the year the basis of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or equity.
IFRS7 has impacted the disclosures in the notes to adopted by the European Union and interpretations issued by the consolidated financial statements.
the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC and have been prepared in accordance with the From 1 April 2007, the following standards, amendments and Listing Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority and the interpretations became effective but are not relevant for the Companies Act 1985, as applicable to companies Groups operations: reporting under IFRS.
IFRIC7 Applying IAS29 Financial Reporting in These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Hyperinflationary Economies for the First Time.
accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 2 and under the historical cost convention, except where modified by New IFRS standards and interpretations not adopted the revaluation of certain financial instruments and commodities.
The following standards, amendments and interpretations are not yet effective and have not been adopted early by the Group: These consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Groups presentational currency.
IFRIC12 Service Concession Arrangements: IFRIC13 Customer Loyalty Programmes: The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS IFRIC14 IAS19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also minimum funding requirements and their interaction: requires management to exercise its judgement in the process IFRS8 Operating Segments: of applying the Companys accounting policies.
The areas Revised IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements: involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity and Revised IAS23 Borrowing Costs: areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to Revised IFRS3 Business Combinations: the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 3.
Revised IAS27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements: The financial information for the year ended 31 March 2007 is Amendment to IFRS2 Share-based Payment: derived from the statutory financial statements for that year, Amendment to IAS32 Financial Instruments: Presentation except that the comparative information has been reclassified and IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
as a result of the realignment of the segment disclosed in Note 4 and the results of the discontinued operations of IFRIC12 and IFRIC14 are effective for the Group from 1 April Occidente and the disposed European starch plants.
Revised IFRS3 and revised IAS27 are effective for the Group from 1 July Use of adjusted measures 2009.
The other standards, amendments and revisions are Tate & Lyle presents adjusted profit before tax and adjusted effective for the Group from 1 January 2009.
The adoption of earnings per share information.
These measures are used these standards, amendments and interpretations is not by Tate & Lyle for internal performance analysis and incentive expected to have a material impact on the Groups profit for compensation arrangements for employees.
The terms the year or equity.
The adoptions may affect disclosures in the adjusted and exceptional items are not defined terms Groups financial statements.
under IFRS and may therefore not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
The parent company, Tate & Lyle PLC, has not adopted IFRS They are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior as its statutory reporting basis.
Audited financial statements to, GAAP measurements of profit.
The term adjusted refers for the parent company, prepared in accordance with UK to the relevant measure being reported, excluding exceptional GAAP, are set out on pages 154 to 159. items and amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition of businesses.
A reconciliation of statutory to adjusted information is provided in Note 44.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 99 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
