Notes to the parent company financial statements 1 Parent company accounting policies Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised on a full provision basis on Accounting basis timing differences between the recognition of gains and losses The parent company financial statements are prepared in the accounts and their recognition for tax purposes that under the historical cost convention in accordance with have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
the Companies Act 1985 and applicable UK accounting Deferred tax is not recognised on permanent differences or standards.
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies on timing differences arising on unremitted profits of overseas Act 1985, the Companys profit and loss account and subsidiaries.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the statement of total recognised gains and losses are not extent that it is considered more likely than not that there will presented in these financial statements.
The Tate & Lyle be sufficient future taxable profits to permit tax relief of the PLC consolidated financial statements for the year ended underlying timing differences.
31 March 2008 contain a consolidated statement of cash flows.
Consequently the Company has taken the exemption Foreign currencies available in FRS1 Revised 1996 Cash flow statements, and Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated has not presented its own cash flow statement.
into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the last day of the financial period the closing rate.
Profits and losses New UK GAAP interpretations adopted are translated into sterling at the prevailing rate at the time In preparing these financial statements the Company has of transaction and credited or charged to the profit and adopted for the first time UITF44 Group and Treasury Share loss account.
UITF44 requires the fair value of the award of share options to subsidiary employees to be treated as a Share-based compensation capital contribution.
The Company operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
Details of the plans are Consequently, the Company has recognised an addition to included within Note 28 of the Group financial statements.
investments of the aggregate amount of these contributions The fair value of employee services received in exchange for all grants of equity instruments made subsequent to for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The increase in respect of 2008 was 2 million.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period The adoption of this pronouncement has required the is determined by reference to the fair value of the options restatement of the comparative results, where 4 million was granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting recognised as the opening adjustment at 1 April 2007, with conditions for example, earnings targets.
Non-market vesting a further 3 million recognised in 2007. conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
At each Tangible fixed assets balance sheet date, for options granted with non-market Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis to write off vesting conditions, the Company revises its estimates of the the cost of tangible fixed assets over their estimated useful life.
number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
The tangible fixed assets comprise plant and machinery which It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, are depreciated over a period of three to 28 years.
Impairment if any, in the profit and loss account, and a corresponding reviews are undertaken if there are indications that the carrying adjustment to equity.
The proceeds received net of any values may not be recoverable.
directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the options are exercised.
Investments Fixed asset investments are included in the balance sheet at Dividend distribution cost, less any provision for impairment.
A dividend distribution to the Companys equity holders is Investments in subsidiaries and associates are accounted for recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements at cost.
Such investments include both investments in shares in the period in which the dividends are approved by the issued by the subsidiary or associates and other parent entity Companys shareholders or, in the case of interim dividends, interests that in substance form part of the parent entitys by the Board of Directors.
In the case of subsidiaries these include investments in the form of interest-free loans that have no Share capital fixed repayment terms and which have been provided to Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs subsidiaries as an additional source of long-term capital.
directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Leases Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity Operating lease costs are charged to profit as incurred.
share capital and holds that share either directly as treasury shares or indirectly within an ESOP trust, the consideration Research and development paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net All expenditure on research and development is charged of income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the to profit as incurred.
Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently Retirement benefits sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any The Company contributes to the Group pension plan operated directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the in the UK.
Details of the plan are included within Note 32 of related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable the Group financial statements.
As permitted under FRS17 to the Companys equity holders.
These shares are used to Retirement Benefits, the plan is accounted for as a defined satisfy share options granted to employees under the Groups contribution plan, as the employer cannot identify its share of share option schemes.
The trustee purchases the Companys the underlying assets and liabilities of the plan.
The employers shares on the open market using loans made by the contributions relate to the current service period only and are Company or other loans guaranteed by the Company.
charged to the income statement as they are incurred.
