Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Group accounting policies continued Segment reporting A business segment is a group of assets or operations c Share-based compensation engaged in providing products or services that are subject The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based to risks and returns that are different from those of other compensation plans.
The fair value of employee services business segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised providing products or services within a particular economic as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the environment that are subject to risks and returns that vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of are different from those segments operating in other the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market economic environments.
vesting conditions for example, earnings targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the Discontinued operations and non-current assets number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
held for sale At each balance sheet date, for options granted with nonBusiness components that represent separate major lines of market vesting conditions, the Group revises its estimates business or geographical areas of operations are recognised of the number of options that are expected to become as discontinued if the operations have been disposed of, exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original are being abandoned or meet the criteria to be classified estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding as held for sale.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as share premium when the options are exercised.
held for sale if their carrying amount will be principally recovered through a sale transaction rather than through Research and development continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when Research expenditure is recognised in the income statement the sale is highly probable, expected to be completed within in the year in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure one year and the asset or disposal group is available for is recognised in the income statement in the year in which it immediate sale in its present condition.
Operations held is incurred unless it is probable that future economic benefits for sale are held at the lower of their carrying amount on will flow to the Group from the asset being developed, the cost the date they are classified as held for sale and fair value of the asset can be reliably measured and technical feasibility less costs to sell.
When the recognition criteria are met, development costs are capitalised as an intangible asset and 3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements are amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated useful In order to prepare these consolidated financial statements life from the time the asset is available for use.
in accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 2, management has used estimates and judgements to establish Borrowing costs the amounts at which certain items are recorded.
Critical Borrowing costs directly arising from the purchase, accounting estimates and judgements are those that have the construction or production of an asset are capitalised greatest impact on the financial statements and require as part of the cost of that asset.
the most difficult, subjective and complex judgements about matters that are inherently uncertain.
Estimates are based Exceptional items on factors including historical experience and expectations Exceptional items comprise items of income and expense that of future events that management believe to be reasonable.
are material in amount and unlikely to recur and which merit However, given the judgemental nature of such estimates, separate disclosure in order to provide an understanding of actual results could be different from the assumptions used.
the Groups underlying financial performance.
Examples of The critical accounting policies are set out below.
events giving rise to the disclosure of material items of income and expense as exceptional items include, but are not limited Impairment of assets to, impairment events, disposals of operations or individual Asset impairments have the potential to significantly impact assets, litigation claims by or against the Group and the income.
In order to determine whether impairments are restructuring of components of the Groups operations.
required the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the Government grants asset.
This calculation is usually based on projecting future A government grant is recognised when there is reasonable cash flows over a five-year period and using a terminal value assurance that any conditions attached to the grant will to incorporate expectations of growth thereafter.
A discount be satisfied and the grants will be received.
A government factor is applied to obtain a current value value in use.
grant is recognised at its fair value and is accounted for as a The fair value less costs to sell of an asset is used if this deduction against the cost concerned or within other income results in an amount in excess of value in use.
over the periods necessary to match the grants with the Estimated future cash flows for impairment calculations are related costs that they are intended to compensate.
based on managements expectations of future volumes and margins based on plans and best estimates of the productivity Dividend distribution of the assets in their current condition.
Future cash flows A dividend distribution to the Companys equity holders is therefore exclude benefits from major expansion projects recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements requiring future capital expenditure where that expenditure in the period in which the dividends are approved by the has not been approved at the balance sheet date.
Companys shareholders or, in the case of interim dividends, by the Board of directors.
104 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued Provisions The Group recognises a provision where a legal or Future cash flows are discounted using a discount rate based constructive obligation exists at the balance sheet date on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, adjusted and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome.
if appropriate for circumstances specific to the asset being Where appropriate, future cash outflows that are expected tested.
The weighted average cost of capital is impacted to arise over a number of years are discounted to a present by estimates of interest rates, equity returns and market value using a relevant discount rate.
The Groups weighted average cost of capital is reviewed on an annual basis.
At the balance sheet date, provisions included amounts for insurance claims payable by the Groups reinsurance Further details are set out in Notes 15 and 16. company, legal matters, employee termination and other restructuring costs and amounts payable under the deferred Retirement benefits consideration clauses of the realignment of the Sucralose Among the range of retirement benefits provided in business in April 2004. businesses around the Group are a number of defined benefit pension plans and an unfunded healthcare benefit scheme Although provisions are reviewed on a regular basis and in the USA.
The amounts recorded in the financial statements adjusted for managements best current estimates, the for both of these types of arrangement are based on a judgemental nature of these items means that future amounts number of assumptions, changes to which could have settled may be different from those provided.
a material impact on the reported amounts.
Further details are set out in Note 33.
Any net deficit or surplus arising on defined benefit plans and the liability under the healthcare plan is shown in the balance Taxation sheet.
The amount recorded is the difference between plan The Group operates in a large number of tax jurisdictions assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
Plan assets are around the world.
Tax regulations generally are complex based on market value at that date.
Plan liabilities, including and in some jurisdictions agreeing tax liabilities with local healthcare liabilities, are based on actuarial estimates of the tax authorities can take several years.
Consequently, at the present value of future pension or other benefits that will be balance sheet date, tax liabilities and assets are based on payable to members.
The most sensitive assumptions managements best estimate of the future amounts that will involved in calculating the expected liabilities are mortality be settled.
While the Group aims to ensure that the estimates rates and the discount rate used to calculate the present recorded are accurate, the actual amounts could be different value.
If the mortality rates assumption changed, a one year from those expected.
Deferred tax assets mainly represent increase to longevity at age 60 would increase the liability by past tax losses that the Group expects to recover at some 2.6%.
The main financial assumption is the real discount rate, time in the future and by their nature the amounts recorded being the excess of the discount rate over the rate of inflation.
are therefore dependent on managements judgement If this assumption changed by 0.1%, the gross plan liabilities about future events.
would change by approximately 15 million.
Further details are set out in Notes 11 and 31.
The income statement generally comprises a regular charge to operating profit and a finance charge, which represents the net of expected income from plan assets and an interest charge on plan liabilities.
These calculations are based on expected outcomes at the start of the financial year.
The income statement is most sensitive to changes in expected returns from plan assets and the discount rate used to calculate the interest charge on plan liabilities.
A 0.1% change in the assumption of the real discount rate would change the finance expense by approximately 0.3 million.
Full details of these assumptions, which are based on advice from the Groups actuaries, are set out in Note 32.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 105 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
