Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tate & Lyle PLC: parent company financial statements We have audited the parent company financial statements Basis of audit opinion of Tate & Lyle PLC for the year ended 31 March 2008 which We conducted our audit in accordance with International comprise the parent company balance sheet and the notes Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing to the parent company financial statements.
An audit includes examination, on a test company financial statements have been prepared under the basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the parent company financial statements and the part of the the information in the directors remuneration report that is directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes described as having been audited.
an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the parent We have reported separately on the Group financial company financial statements, and of whether the accounting statements of Tate & Lyle PLC for the year ended policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, 31 March 2008. consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the information and explanations which we considered the directors remuneration report and the parent company necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence financial statements in accordance with applicable law and to give reasonable assurance that the parent company United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom financial statements and the part of the directors Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the remuneration report to be audited are free from material Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent statements and the part of the directors remuneration report company financial statements and the part of the directors to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory remuneration report to be audited.
requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared Opinion for and only for the Companys members as a body in In our opinion: accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept the parent company financial statements give a true and or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the parent may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent companys affairs as at 31 March 2008: in writing.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent have been properly prepared in accordance with the company financial statements give a true and fair view and Companies Act 1985: and whether the parent company financial statements and the part the information given in the directors report is consistent of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been with the financial statements.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you as to whether in our opinion the information given in the directors report is consistent with  LLP the parent company financial statements.
The information Chartered Accountants and given in the directors report includes that specific information Registered Auditors presented in the operating and financial review that is cross- 1 Embankment Place referred from the business review section of the directors London WC2N 6RH report.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company 21 May 2008 has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the overview of the year, the What we do, How we performed and the How we run the business sections, the directors report, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, the Group financial statements, the ten-year review and the information for investors.
