business and financial review corporate governance accounts annual General meetinG The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at the offices of Lovells LLP, Atlantic House, Holborn Viaduct, London EC1A 2FG on 14 May 2009 at 2.00pm.
All shareholders are welcome to attend and there will be an opportunity for shareholders to speak with Directors at the meeting.
The Notice of Meeting follows and sets out the business to be transacted.
An explanation of each of the resolutions follows below.
1. to receive and adopt the Directors Report and Accounts This is an ordinary resolution to receive and adopt the Directors Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008.
2. to approve the Directors Remuneration Report This is an ordinary resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report included in the Directors Report and Accounts.
3. and 4. to re-appoint Robert Morse and Ian nolan as Directors These are ordinary resolutions to re-appoint as Directors Robert Morse and Ian Nolan who retire by rotation, and are being proposed for re-appointment by shareholders in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association as commented upon in the Directors Report on page 25.
Biographical details of Robert Morse and Ian Nolan are included on page 22.
5. to re-appoint  LLP as auditors This is an ordinary resolution to re-appoint  LLP as auditors and, as is customary, to authorise the Directors to fix the auditors remuneration.
6. to authorise general meetings to continue to be held on 14 days notice The Shareholder Rights Directive is intended to be implemented in the UK in August of this year and the Regulation implementing this Directive will increase the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days.
The Company is currently able to call general meetings other than the Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days notice and the Board considers it appropriate for the Company to continue to be able to convene meetings on such notice.
In order to be able to do so after August 2009, shareholders must approve the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
This resolution seeks such approval and the approval will be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also need meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Directive before it can call a general meeting on 14 days notice.
7. to authorise the Directors to allot relevant securities This is an ordinary resolution to renew the existing authority of the Directors to allot relevant securities within the meaning of the Companys Articles of Association up to a maximum aggregate nominal value of 132,061, representing approximately one third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 30 January 2009.
Unless renewed, the authority would expire no later than 14 August 2010.
As some shareholders will be aware, it is normal for a UK-listed company to maintain such an authority irrespective of any intention to exercise it.
The Board confirms that it does not currently have any intention to utilise this authority.
As at 30 January 2009, no shares were held by the Company as treasury shares.
8. to disapply pre-emption rights This is a special resolution to renew the existing authority of the Directors to allot equity securities within the meaning of the Companys Articles of Association for cash and or to sell treasury shares for cash without first offering such shares to existing shareholders on a pro rata basis.
This authority is to relate to a the allotment of shares in a rights issue or other offer where subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Board may deem necessary or expedient the shares attributable to holders of ordinary shares are proportionate as nearly as practicable to their respective holdings of ordinary shares and b the allotment of ordinary shares having a maximum aggregate nominal value of 19,809, representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 30 January 2009.
Again, as some shareholders will be aware, it is normal for a UK-listed company to maintain such an authority irrespective of any intention to exercise it.
73 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 50 26 02 2009 10:38:43 annual General meetinG ContInueD 9. to authorise the Company to repurchase its own shares This is a special resolution to renew the Directors existing authority to make market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares, such authority to be limited to purchases of up to 19,809,237 shares representing approximately 10% of the Companys issued share capital as at 30 January 2009.
Any shares purchased under this authority may either be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
As with the previous two resolutions, it is normal for a UK-Listed company to maintain such an authority irrespective of any intention to exercise it.
In addition, this authority would only be utilised if such is expected to result in an increase in earnings per share and to be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
As at 30 January 2009, there were options outstanding to subscribe for 4,492,416 ordinary shares in the Company although in practice it is intended that exercise of 2,563,038 of these options will be satisfied by the transfer of shares from the Companys employee benefit trust, rather than by the allotment of new shares.
This represents approximately 2.1% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 30 January 2009 and would represent approximately 2.6% of the issued share capital if both the Directors existing authority to buy back shares and the new authority now being sought were to be utilised in full.
Recommendation Your Directors consider each of the resolutions set out in the Notice of Meeting to be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, they unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of such resolutions, as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
74 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
