business and financial review corporate governance accounts notes to the financial statements 1.
General information Telecity Group plc is a Company incorporated, and domiciled, in the United Kingdom and has Sterling as its presentation and functional currency.
Telecity Group plc and its subsidiaries operate in the internet infrastructure facilities and associated services industry within Europe.
The operating companies of the Group are disclosed within note 17.
Summary of significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all years presented.
2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated Financial Statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with EU Endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through the Income Statement.
The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated Financial Statements, are disclosed below.
The separate Financial Statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
As permitted by the Act, the separate Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
Standards, amendment and interpretations effective in 2008 b IFRIC 11, IF RS 2, Group and treasury share transactions, was early adopted in 2007.
IFRIC 11 provides guidance on whether share-based transactions involving treasury shares or involving Group entities for example, options over a parents shares should be accounted for as equity-settled or cash-settled, share-based payment transactions in the stand-alone accounts of the Parent and Group companies.
The financial effect of this was to increase the investment balance and other reserves in the Company by 907,000 2007: 628,000.
There was no impact on the Income Statement in the current or previous year.
Interpretation early adopted by the Group b IA S 23 Amendment, Borrowing costs effective from 1 January 2009.
The amendment requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset one that takes a substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale as part of the cost of that asset.
The option of immediately expensing those borrowing costs will be removed.
This amendment does not have any impact as the Groups existing policy is to capitalise interest in respect of major capital projects when the relevant conditions are met.
Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2008 but not relevant The following standards, amendments and interpretations to published standards are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 but they are not relevant to the Group or Companys operations: b IFRIC 12, Se rvice concession arrangements: and b IFRIC 13, Cu stomer loyalty programmes.
Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group and Company The following standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups future accounting periods but the Group and Company have not early adopted them: b IFRS 1 Ame ndment, First-time adoption of IFRS, and IAS 27, Consolidated and separate Financial Statements effective 1 January 2009.
The amended standard allows first-time adopters to use a deemed cost of either fair value or the carrying amount under previous accounting practice to measure the initial cost of investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates in the separate Financial Statements.
The amendment also removes the definition of the cost method from IAS 27 and replaces it with a requirement to present dividends as income in the separate Financial Statements of the investor.
The Group will apply IFRS 1 Amendment from 1 January 2009, in respect of any subsidiaries of the Group that transition to IFRS subsequent to that date.
The amendment will not have any impact on the Groups Financial Statements: b IFRS 2 Ame ndment, Share-based payment effective from 1 January 2009.
The amended standard deals with vesting conditions and cancellations.
It clarifies that vesting conditions are service conditions and performance conditions only.
Other features of a share-based payment are not vesting conditions.
These features would need to be included in the grant date fair value for transactions with employees and others providing similar services: they would not impact the number of awards expected to vest or valuation thereof subsequent to grant date.
All cancellations, whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the same accounting treatment.
The Group will apply IFRS 2 Amendment from 1 January 2009.
It is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups Financial Statements: 45 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 22 26 02 2009 10:38:38 notes to the financial statements ContInueD 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.1 Basis of preparation continued Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group and Company continued b IFRS 3 R evised, Business combinations and amendments to IAS 27, Consolidated and separate Financial Statements.
The IASB has published a revised IFRS 3, Business Combinations and related revisions to IAS 27, Consolidated and separate Financial Statements.
There are also consequential amendments to other standards, most notably IAS 28, Investments in associates and IAS 31, Interests in joint ventures.
The revised standards must be applied prospectively for transactions in accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
Under the revised standard, the acquisition costs are to be expensed as incurred and contingent consideration to be measured at fair value with changes recognised in the Income Statement.
The expected impact of this revision is currently being assessed by management: b IFRS 5 Ame ndment, Non-current assets held for resale and discontinued operations and consequential amendment to IFRS 1, First-time adoption effective 1 July 2009.
The amendment is part of the IASBs annual improvements project published in May 2008.
The amendment clarifies that all of a subsidiarys assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale if a partial disposal sale plan results in loss of control.
Relevant disclosure should be made for this subsidiary if the definition of a discontinued operation is met.
A consequential amendment to IFRS 1 states that these amendments are applied prospectively from the date of transition to IFRS.
The Group will apply the IFRS 5 Amendment prospectively to all partial disposals of subsidiaries from 1 January 2010: b IFRS 8, Ope rating segments.
The new standard requires a management approach, under which segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
The Group will apply IFRS 8 from 1 January 2009.
The expected impact on the segmental disclosures given by the Group is currently being assessed by management: b IA S 1 Revised, Presentation of Financial Statements effective from 1 January 2009.
The revised standard will prohibit the presentation of items of income and expenses that is, non-owner changes in equity in the statement of changes in equity, requiring non-owner changes in equity to be presented separately from owner changes in equity.
All non-owner changes in equity will be required to be shown in a performance statement, but entities can choose whether to present one performance statement the statement of comprehensive income or two statements the income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
Where entities restate or reclassify comparative information, they will be required to present a restated balance sheet as at the beginning comparative period in addition to the current requirement to present balance sheets at the end of the current period and comparative period.
The Group will apply IAS 1 Revised from 1 January 2009.
The Group is currently evaluating which performance statement is most appropriate: b IA S 1 Amendment, Presentation of Financial Statements effective 1 January 2009.
The amendment clarifies that some rather than all financial assets and liabilities classified as held for trading in accordance with IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement are examples of current assets and liabilities respectively.
The Group will apply the IAS 39 Amendment from 1 January 2009.
It is not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups Financial Statements: b IA S 19 Amendment, Employee benefits effective 1 January 2009.
The amendment is part of the IASBs annual improvements project published in May 2008. b T he amendment clarifies that a plan amendment that results in a change in the extent to which benefit promises are affected by future salary increases is a curtailment, while an amendment that changes benefits attributable to past service gives rise to a negative past service cost if it results in a reduction in the present value of the defined benefit obligation.
b The defi nition of return on plan assets has been amended to state that plan administration costs are deducted in the calculation of return on plan assets only to the extent that such costs have been excluded from measurement of the defined benefit obligation.
b The distinction between s hort-term and long-term employee benefits will be based on whether benefits are due to be settled within or after 12 months of employee service being rendered.
b IA S 37, Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets, requires contingent liabilities to be disclosed, not recognised.
IAS 19 has been amended to be consistent.
The Group will apply the IAS 19 Amendment from 1 January 2009.
It is not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups Financial Statements: b IA S 27 Revised, Consolidated and separate Financial Statements, effective 1 July 2009.
The revised standard requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control and these transactions will no longer result in goodwill or gains and losses.
The standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost.
Any remaining interest in the entity is re-measured to fair value, and a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
The Group will apply IAS 27 Revised prospectively to transactions with non-controlling interests from 1 January 2010.
It is not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups Financial Statements: 46 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 23 26 02 2009 10:38:38 business and financial review corporate governance accounts 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.1 Basis of preparation continued Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group and Company continued b IA S 28 Amendment, Investments in associates and consequential amendments to IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation, and IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures effective 1 January 2009.
An investment in associate is treated as a single asset for the purposes of impairment testing.
Any impairment loss is not allocated to specific assets included within the investment, for example, goodwill.
Reversals of impairment are recorded as an adjustment to the investment balance to the extent that the recoverable amount of the associate increases.
The Group will apply the IAS 28 Amendment to impairment tests related to investments in subsidiaries and any related impairment losses from 1 January 2009.
It is not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups Financial Statements: b IA S 32 Amendment, Financial instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Amendment, Presentation of Financial Statements effective 1 January 2009.
The amended standards require entities to classify puttable financial instruments and instruments, or components of instruments that impose on the entity an obligation to deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of the entity only on liquidation as equity, provided the financial instruments have particular features and meet specific conditions.
The Group will apply the IAS 32 and IAS 1 Amendment from 1 January 2009.
It is not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups Financial Statements: b IA S 36 Amendment, Impairment of assets effective 1 January 2009.
Where fair value less costs to sell is calculated on the basis of discounted cash flows, disclosures equivalent to those for value-in-use calculation should be made.
The Group will apply the IAS 28 Amendment and provide the required disclosure where applicable for impairment tests from 1 January 2009.
It is not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups Financial Statements: b IA S 38 Amendment, Intangible assets effective 1 January 2009.
A prepayment may only be recognised in the event that payment has been made in advance of obtaining right of access to goods or receipt of services.
It is not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups Financial Statements: b IA S 39 Amendment, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement effective 1 January 2009.
The amendment is part of the IASBs annual improvements project published in May 2008. b T his amendment clarifies that it is possible for there to be movements into and out of the fair value through profit or loss category where a derivative commences or ceases to qualify as a hedging instrument in cash flow or net investment hedge.
b The defi nition of financial asset or financial liability at fair value through profit or loss as it relates to items that are held for trading is also amended.
This clarifies that a financial asset or liability that is part of a portfolio of financial instruments managed together with evidence of an actual recent pattern of short-term profit taking is included in such a portfolio on initial recognition.
b The curr ent guidance on designating and documenting hedges states that a hedging instrument needs to involve a party external to the reporting entity and cites a segment as an example of a reporting entity.
This means that in order for hedge accounting to be applied at segment level, the requirements for hedge accounting are currently required to be met by the applicable segment.
The amendment removes the example of a segment so that the guidance is consistent with IFRS 8, Operating segments, which requires disclosure for segments to be based on information reported to the chief operating decision-maker.
b When re measuring the carrying amount of a debt instrument on cessation of fair value hedge accounting, the amendment clarifies that a revised effective interest rate calculated at the date fair value hedge accounting ceases is used.
It is not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups Financial Statements: b IFRIC 14, IA S 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction, provides guidance on assessing the limit in IAS 19 on the amount of the surplus that can be recognised as an asset.
It also explains how the pension asset of the liability may be affected by the statutory or contractual minimum funding requirements.
This interpretation does not have any impact of the Groups Financial Statements, as the Group has does not have a defined benefit pension scheme: b IFRS 16, He dges of a net investment in a foreign operation effective 1 October 2008.
IFRIC 16 clarifies the accounting treatment in respect of net investment hedging.
This includes the fact that net investment hedging relates to differences in functional currency not presentation currency, and hedging instruments may be held anywhere in the Group.
The requirements of IAS 21, The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, do apply to the hedged item.
The Group will apply IFRIC 16 from 1 January 2009.
It is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups financial statements: 47 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 24 26 02 2009 10:38:38 notes to the financial statements ContInueD 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.1 Basis of preparation continued Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group and Company continued b Ther e are a number of minor amendments to the following: b IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures: b IA S 8, Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors: b IA S 10, Events after the reporting period: b IA S 18, Revenue: and b IA S 34, Interim financial reporting.
These are part of the IASBs annual improvements project published in May 2008 not addressed above.
These amendments are unlikely to have an impact on the Groups accounts and have therefore not been analysed in detail.
Interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and not relevant for the Group and Companys operations The following interpretations to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Group and Companys accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 or later periods but are not relevant for the Groups operations: b IA S 16 Amendment, Property, plant and equipment and consequential amendment to IAS 7, Statement of cash flows effective from 1 January 2009.
Entities whose ordinary activities comprise renting and subsequently selling assets present proceeds from the sale of those assets as revenue and should transfer the carrying amount of the asset to inventories when the asset becomes held for sale.
A consequential amendment to IAS 7 states that cash flows arising from purchase, rental and sale of those assets are classified as cash flows from operating activities.
The amendment will not have an impact on the Groups operations because none of the Groups companies ordinary activities comprise renting and subsequently selling assets: b IA S 27 Amendment, Consolidated and separate Financial Statements effective from 1 January 2009.
Where an investment in a subsidiary that is accounted for under IAS 39, Financial instruments: recognition and measurement, is classified as held for sale under IFRS 5, Non-current assets held-for-sale and discontinued operations, IAS 39 would continue to be applied.
The amendment will not have an impact on the Groups operations because it is the Groups policy for an investment in subsidiary to be recorded at cost in the standalone accounts of each entity: b IA S 28 Amendment, Investments in associates and consequential amendments to IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation and IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures effective from 1 January 2009.
Where an investment in associate is accounted for in accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement, only certain rather than all disclosure requirements in IAS 28 need to be made in addition to disclosures required by IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation and IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures.
The amendment will not have an impact on the Groups operations because it is the Group does not hold any investments in associates: b IA S 29 Amendment, Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies effective from 1 January 2009.
The guidance has been amended to reflect the fact that a number of assets and liabilities are measured at fair value rather than historical cost.
The amendment will not have an impact on the Groups operations, as none of the Groups subsidiaries operate in hyperinflationary economies: b IA S 31 Amendment, Interests in joint ventures and consequential amendments to IAS 32 and IFRS 7 effective from 1 January 2009.
Where an investment in joint venture is accounted for in accordance with IAS 39, only certain rather than all disclosure requirements in IAS 31 need to be made in addition to disclosures required by IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation, and IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures.
The amendment will not have an impact on the Groups operations as there are no interests held in joint ventures: b IA S 38 Amendment, Intangible assets effective from 1 January 2009.
The amendment deletes the wording that states that there is rarely, if ever support for use of a method that results in a lower rate of amortisation than the straight-line method.
The amendment will not have an impact on the Groups operations, as all intangible assets are amortised using the straight-line method: b IA S 40 Amendment, Investment property and consequential amendments to IAS 16 effective from 1 January 2009.
Property that is under construction or development for future use as investment property is within the scope of IAS 40.
Where the fair value model is applied, such property is, therefore, measured at fair value.
However, where fair value of investment property under construction is not reliably measurable, the property is measured at cost until the earlier of the date construction is completed and the date at which fair value becomes reliably measurable.
The amendment will not have an impact on the Groups operations, as no investment properties are held by the Group: 48 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 25 26 02 2009 10:38:38 business and financial review corporate governance accounts 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.1 Basis of preparation continued Interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and not relevant for the Group and Companys operations continued b IA S 20 Amendment, Accounting for government grants and disclosure of government assistance effective from 1 January 2009.
The benefit of a below-market rate government loan is measured as the difference between the carrying amount in accordance with IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement, and the proceeds received with the benefit accounted for in accordance with IAS 20.
The amendment will not have an impact on the Groups operations as there are no loans received or other grants from the government: and b IFRIC 15, Agreements for construction of real estates effective from 1 January 2009.
The interpretation clarifies whether IAS 18, Revenue, or IAS 11, Construction contracts, should be applied to particular transactions.
It is likely to result in IAS 18 being applied to a wider range of transactions.
IFRIC 15 is not relevant to the Groups operations as all revenue transactions are accounted for under IAS 18 and not IAS 11.
2.2 Prior year adjustments The accounting policy in respect of certain costs of construction, for example rent, has been reviewed following the increase in the number of new data centres the Group is constructing.
In the past, such costs were disclosed as exceptional items in the income statement until the point at which the data centre, or an area thereof, was ready for use.
This differed from the majority of costs incurred during the construction of a new data centre, which are capitalised.
As such, the Group has changed its accounting policy in respect of new build data centres such that the accounting for all directly attributable costs is consistent.
The value of such costs now capitalised in the current year represents 3.5% 2007: 3.9% of total additions to property, plant and equipment.
The impact on the current year is to increase adjusted EBITDA by nil 2007: nil, increase profit after tax by 3,429,000 2007: 685,000 and increase net assets by 3,429,000 2007: 685,000.
In addition, basic earnings per share for the current year have increased by 1.8p 2007: 0.4p.
There is no impact on any years prior to 2007.
In addition, following a court order pursuant to Section 138 of the Companies Act 1985 dated 4 July 2007, a distributable amount of 102,456,000 previously contained with the share premium account has been reclassified to the profit and loss reserve.
2.3 Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled by the Group.
Control exists where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
2.4 Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than the Groups functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are retranslated at the rates ruling at that date.
These translation differences are disclosed in the Income Statement.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the Income Statement for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
The balance sheets of foreign subsidiaries are translated into Sterling at the closing rates of exchange.
The results are translated at an average rate, recalculated for each month between that months closing rate and the equivalent for the preceding month.
Foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of opening net investments in foreign subsidiaries at the closing rate, including long-term inter-company loans, are taken directly to reserves.
In addition, foreign exchange differences arising from retranslation of the foreign subsidiaries results from monthly average rate to closing rate are also taken directly to the Groups cumulative translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised in the Income Statement in the financial year in which the operations are disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
49 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 26 26 02 2009 10:38:38 notes to the financial statements ContInueD 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.5 Segment reporting A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns which are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
The Group has chosen to present its primary segmental analysis with reference to geographical location as this is best felt to describe the different risks and rates of return that the Group is subject to.
2.6 Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is recorded as an intangible asset.
Separately recognised goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
The Group allocates goodwill to each business segment in each country in which it operates.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, the main assumptions used when performing the impairment test are set out in note 15.
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value-in-use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value-in-use calculation requires an estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value.
2.7 Intangible assets Intangible assets, other than goodwill, represent customer contracts acquired during business combinations.
The customer contracts are initially recognised at fair value, in the currency in which the related cash flows are expected to be denominated, and amortised over estimated useful economic lives of between ten and 20 years.
The fair value is calculated by estimating the future cash flows expected to arise from the intangible asset and applying a suitable discount rate.
2.8 Property, plant and equipment The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises their purchase cost, together with the costs of installation and directly attributable external and internal costs, such as staff and property rentals, during the construction or commissioning phase.
Depreciation is calculated from the date an asset becomes available for use, so as to write off the cost of the asset over its expected useful economic life.
The principal periods used for this purpose are: Leasehold improvements 12 15 years straight-line Plant and machinery 5 15 years straight-line Office equipment 3 years straight-line The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and, if appropriate, adjusted at the balance sheet date.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Impairment of non-financial assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether an asset may be impaired.
If any such indicator exists, the Group tests for impairment by estimating the recoverable amount.
If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value of an asset an impairment loss is required.
50 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 27 26 02 2009 10:38:38 business and financial review corporate governance accounts 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.9 Financial assets Financial assets are recognised on the Groups Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are classified into the following categories: loans and receivables and trade and other receivables.
The classification is determined by management upon initial recognition, and it is based on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables comprise mainly trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Cash Flow Statement.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted.
Objective evidence of impairment could include: b significant fin ancial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: or b defa ult or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or b it be coming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organisation.
For certain categories of financial asset, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Groups past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period, as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
A specific provision will also be raised for trade receivables when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments more than 90 days overdue are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
Increases to the provision are charged to the Income Statement.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of a provision account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the provision account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the provision account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the provision account are recognised in the Income Statement.
Derecognition of financial assets The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 51 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 28 26 02 2009 10:38:39 notes to the financial statements ContInueD 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.10 Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Group Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Shares held in the employee benefit trust EBT over which the Group has direct or indirect control are deducted from the reserves of the Group.
trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
Borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the Income Statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Finance and operating leases Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially all the benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are classified as a finance lease and treated as if the asset had been purchased outright.
The assets are included in property, plant and equipment and the capital element of the leasing commitments is shown within obligations under finance leases.
The lease rentals are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements.
The capital element is applied to reduce the outstanding obligations and the interest element is charged against profit in proportion to the reducing capital element outstanding.
Leases that are not classified as finance leases are treated as operating leases.
Costs in respect of operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Benefits received by the Group as an incentive to sign the lease are spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term, or to the first break clause, if sooner.
effective interest rate method The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Derecognition of financial liabilities The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
2.11 Derivative financial instruments Interest rate derivatives are recognised initially at fair value and subsequent to initial recognition are revalued at each reporting date.
The fair value is based on the market values of equivalent instruments at the relevant date.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the derivative liabilities in the balance sheet.
Amounts payable and receivable on interest rate derivatives are recognised in the period to which they relate.
Where the instrument meets the definition for hedge accounting, movements in fair value of the interest rate swap are taken to reserves.
In all other cases movements are charged or credited to the income statement.
2.12 Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense.
52 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 29 26 02 2009 10:38:39 business and financial review corporate governance accounts 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.13 Reinstatement costs At the inception of the lease, the Directors assess the cost of restoring leasehold premises to their original condition at the end of the lease and the likelihood of such costs actually being incurred.
If the likelihood of this liability arising is judged to be probable, the discounted cost of the liability is included in leasehold improvements and is depreciated over the duration of the lease.
The discount arising on the provision is amortised in future years through interest.
If the likelihood of this liability arising is judged to be possible, rather than probable, it is disclosed as a contingent liability.
When assessing the likely duration of the lease and the likelihood of this liability, arising the Directors take into account their contractual and statutory rights to renew or extend the lease terms.
2.14 Revenue Revenue represents the value of goods and services supplied to customers during the year, excluding value added tax and other sales related taxes.
Where invoices are raised in advance for contracted services, the revenue is spread over the period of the service and deferred income is recognised on the Balance Sheet.
Colocation revenues arise from the leasing of the Groups infrastructure assets and are recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of the contact.
When fit-out services are required before the colocation services can be provided, revenue from fit-out contracts is bundled with the related colocation services revenues and the entire amount recognised over the course of the contracts as the services are provided.
2.15 Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees under the terms of the Long-Term Incentive Plans.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined, using the Black Scholes model, at the grant date of equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will ultimately vest.
Non-market vesting conditions, which for the Group mainly relate to the continual employment of the employee during the vesting period, are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments expected to vest at each balance sheet date so that, ultimately, the cumulative amount recognised over the vesting period is based on the number of options that eventually vest.
Any market vesting conditions are factored into the fair value of the options granted.
The options granted to date do not contain any market based vesting condition.
Where the terms and conditions of options are modified before they vest, the increase in the fair value of the options, measured immediately before and after the modification, is also charged to the Income Statement over the remaining vesting period.
Where equity instruments are granted to persons other than employees, the Income Statement is charged with the fair value of goods and services received.
To the extent that share options are granted to employees of the Groups subsidiaries without charge, the share option charge is capitalised as part of the cost of investment in subsidiaries.
2.16 Pensions The Group operates a defined contribution group personal pension arrangement for all employees.
Contributions are made in accordance with the scheme rules and are expensed to the Income Statement as incurred.
2.17 Finance income Finance income arising from bank deposits is recognised in the Income Statement on an accruals basis.
2.18 Finance costs Finance costs of debt are recognised in the Income Statement over the term of such instruments at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Finance costs which are directly attributable to the construction of property, plant and equipment are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets.
The commencement of capitalisation begins when both finance costs and expenditures for the asset are being incurred, and activities that are necessary to get the asset ready for use are in progress.
Capitalisation ceases when substantially all the activities that are necessary to get the asset ready for use are complete.
2.19 Exceptional items Exceptional items are those significant items which are separately disclosed by virtue of their size, nature or incidence to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
53 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 30 26 02 2009 10:38:39 notes to the financial statements ContInueD 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.20 Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Financial risk management The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and cost risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
The Group has operations in a number of European countries and therefore experiences foreign exchange risk.
The Groups main exposure is to the Sterling Euro rate and, to a lesser extent, the Sterling Swedish Krona rate.
The individual operating entities trade predominantly in their functional currency and therefore little foreign currency risk exists at a trading entity level.
The Group faces currency exposures on the translation of the trading results and net assets of its overseas subsidiaries which it does not seek to hedge.
Significant capital projects, which are funded by the Group, are financed by arranging external borrowings in the local currency of the entity being funded.
The surplus cash generated by the overseas entities are managed by entering into foreign exchange contracts when appropriate.
b The y ear end and average exchange rates used when translating the results for the year to Sterling are 1.027 and 1.243 respectively for Euros and 11.245 and 12.015 respectively for Swedish Krona.
b H ad the year end and average Sterling exchange rates been 5% weaker, then the profit for the year would have increased by 0.4m and the net assets increased by 2.0m.
Had the year end and average Sterling exchange rates been 10% weaker, then the profit for the year would have increased by 0.9m and the net assets increased by 4.2m.
The Groups borrowings incur variable interest rates based on three-month LIBOR or EURIBOR depending on the currency of the loan.
The Directors manage the risk of fluctuating interest rates by entering into interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate.
Before an interest rate swap is entered into, the Group reviews the fixed rates available on such contracts.
At 31 December 2008, 66.8% of the Groups borrowings were hedged under such agreements.
The main area of exposure relates to the price of electricity and its consequential impact on the Groups pricing of its services.
The Group uses consultants to monitor price changes in electricity and negotiate fixed-price term agreements with the power supply companies.
The Group performs appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales are made.
Rigorous procedures are applied to ensure that customers pay on a timely basis.
Due to the high number of customers there is no credit concentration risk.
The Group has built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Groups short-, mediumand long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate capital reserves and banking facilities and by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
At the year end, the Group is in full compliance with the covenants attached to the banking facilities and expects to remain so for the foreseeable future.
The Directors are satisfied that the current capital and financing arrangements are adequate for the Groups operations and planned capital investment.
54 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 31 26 02 2009 10:38:39 business and financial review corporate governance accounts 3.
Financial risk management continued The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and net-settled derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Less than Between Between Over 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years At 31 December 2008 Trade and other payables note 22 55,730 Borrowings note 23 6,689 5,705 11,465 55,396 Obligations under finance leases note 24 493 258 659 406 Derivative financial instruments note 21 6,167 2,103 1,200 69,079 8,066 13,324 55,802 Less than Between Between Over 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years At 31 December 2007 Trade and other payables note 22 36,060 Borrowings note 23 6,416 8,376 17,155 Obligations under finance leases note 24 344 207 507 474 Derivative financial instruments note 21 116 42,936 8,583 17,662 474 b Ca pital risk management the Group has a strong capital base following its flotation in 2007.
In the previous year, committed senior debt facilities were put in place through Barclays Bank as agent to take advantage of the additional finance available to the Group via increased gearing.
The Group has maintained a conservative approach to gearing and seeks to manage its net debt with reference to prudent multiples of the Groups last 12 months EBITDA levels.
The Group maintains sufficient cash balances to fund short-term working capital and capital expenditure requirements.
Any surplus cash balances in excess of these requirements, is placed on term deposits with major financial institutions.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates made by management based on the best available evidence, due to events or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: b p roperty, plant and equipment depreciation estimated remaining useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are also reviewed for impairment where there has been a trigger event by assessing the present value of estimated future cash flows through use compared with net book value.
The calculation of estimated future cash flows and residual values is based on the Directors best estimates of future prices, output and costs and is therefore subjective: b i ntangible xed assets amortisation estimated remaining useful lives are reviewed annually.
The carrying values of intangible fixed assets are also reviewed for impairment where there has been a trigger event by assessing the present value of estimated future cash flows through use compared with net book value.
The calculation of estimated future cash flows and residual values is based on the Directors best estimates of future income from customer contracts and is therefore subjective: b d ilapidations provisions liabilities in respect of obligations to restore premises to their original condition are estimated at the commencement of the lease and are reviewed every six months.
The actual cost of these may be different depending upon whether the Group renews the lease: 55 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 32 26 02 2009 10:38:39 notes to the financial statements ContInueD 4.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued b o nerous lease provisions liabilities in respect of onerous leases are reviewed and updated, where necessary, to reflect current conditions and intentions.
The actual cost of these may be different depending upon whether the Group is successful in assigning the lease: b deferred taxation full provision is made for deferred taxation, as required under IAS 12, Income Taxes, at the rates of tax prevailing at the period end dates unless different future rates have been substantively enacted.
Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that they will be recovered: b derivatives IAS 39 requires derivative financial instruments to be recorded on the balance sheet at their fair value.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each period in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met.
The fair values of derivative instruments are determined using forward price curves.
Forward price curves represent the Groups estimates of the prices at which a buyer or seller could contract today for delivery or settlement of a commodity at future dates.
The Group generally bases its forward price curves upon readily obtainable market price quotations, as the Groups commodity contracts do not generally extend beyond the actively traded portion of the curve.
However, the forward price curves used are only an estimate of how future prices will move and are therefore subjective: and b share-based payments the Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees under the terms of the Long-Term Incentive Plans.
The value of the expense is dependent upon certain key assumptions including the expected future volatility rate of the Groups share price at the date of grant.
Segmental information a Primary reporting format geographic segments At 31 December 2008, the Group is organised into two main geographic segments: the United Kingdom UK and Ireland, and the Rest of Europe.
Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables and provisions for other liabilities and charges.
Unallocated amounts comprise items such as Group borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
56 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 33 26 02 2009 10:38:40 business and financial review corporate governance accounts 5.
Segmental information continued b Secondary reporting format business segments 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 Revenue 000 000 Colocation 101,176 70,409 Value Added Services 31,864 27,507 133,040 97,916 Colocation and Value Added Services utilise the same asset base, as such it is not practicable to allocate total assets and capital expenditure between these two segments.
Directors emoluments and key management compensation The Directors emoluments, including retirement benefits, are disclosed on page 36 within the Remuneration Report which forms part of the Financial Statements.
Key management compensation, which includes that of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors, is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 000 000 Salaries and benefits 1,194 821 Post-employment benefits 79 32 Share-based payment charges 262 31 1,535 884 7. employee information The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group during the year was: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 number number By activity Operations 296 260 Sales and marketing 43 35 Administration 54 51 393 346 000 000 Staff costs for the above persons including redundancy costs Wages and salaries 18,284 15,462 Social security costs 3,076 2,537 Other pension costs 503 397 Share-based payments 907 307 22,770 18,703 The Company does not have any employees.
Finance income Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 000 000 Bank and other interest 863 246 Foreign exchange gains on financing items 9,385 251 Fair value gains on financial instruments 116 Other 26 10,364 523 57 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 34 26 02 2009 10:38:40 notes to the financial statements ContInueD 9. other finance costs Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 000 000 Interest payable on long-term loan 3,928 5,160 Less interest capitalised note 16 523 3,405 5,160 Interest payable on bank overdrafts and other loans 16 13 Interest payable on finance leases 58 75 Foreign exchange losses on financing items 4,764 169 Fair value losses on financial instruments 469 Other 425 370 8,668 6,256 The interest rate charged on the capitalised interest is equivalent to the overall interest charge as disclosed in note 23.
Auditors remuneration Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 000 000 Auditors remuneration for: fees payable to Company auditors for the audit of Group accounts 185 250 the auditing of accounts of subsidiaries of the Company 14 40 Review of half year statement 20 other services 25 services relating to taxation 246 1 transaction services 86 1,440 1 810,000 of this amount was charged directly to the share premium account as it related to the issuing of shares.
The comparative information relates to the Groups previous auditors, Deloitte LLP.
11. exceptional items Exceptional items comprise: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 1 2008 2007 000 000 Operating exceptional items: Transaction-related expenses 2,877 Integration costs 1,430 Release of provisions for onerous leases 276 4,031 Exceptional finance costs 2,127 1 Restated for change in accounting policy as described in note 2.2.
In the prior year, the transaction-related expenses arose during the Groups Initial Public Offering and relate mainly to legal and professional fees.
Integration costs, including redundancy costs, were incurred following the acquisitions of Redbus Interhouse plc and Globix Holdings UK Limited.
The release of provisions for onerous leases relate to a lease over a property in Munich and a property in London.
During 2007, the estimate of the discounted future amounts payable on these properties was reduced.
The exceptional finance costs relate to the write-off of capitalised loan issue costs in respect of debt that was refinanced during the year.
58 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
Income tax credit charge 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 000 000 Current tax: Current tax on profit loss for the year 61 66 Total current tax 61 66 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 5,374 5,374 Income tax credit charge 5,313 66 Factors affecting the current year income tax credit charge are as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 1 2008 2007 000 000 Profit loss before tax 20,019 7,073 At statutory rate of UK corporation tax of 28% 2007: 30% 5,605 2,122 Effect of different tax rates in non-UK jurisdictions 336 14 Depreciation in excess of capital allowances 438 2,717 Items not taken into account for tax purposes and other timing differences 1,075 3,713 Utilisation of losses 5,845 4,256 Recognition of deferred tax asset 5,374 5,313 66 1 Restated for change in accounting policy as described in note 2.2.
At the year end the Group had recognised the following amounts in respect of deferred tax: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 000 000 Deferred tax liabilities 38,071 29,901 Deferred tax assets 43,445 29,901 5,374 The deferred tax liabilities relate to claimed capital allowances in excess of depreciation and the valuation of certain balance sheet items, for example intangible fixed assets relating to customer contracts.
The deferred tax assets mainly relate to trading losses.
Such assets and liabilities have been offset only when they arise in the same tax jurisdiction, the amounts are expected to reverse in similar periods and the amounts would be available for offset.
The majority of the net deferred tax asset is expected to be realised within 12 months.
59 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 36 26 02 2009 10:38:40 notes to the financial statements ContInueD 13.
Income tax credit charge continued The movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 000 000 At 1 January Income Statement credit 5,374 At 31 December 5,374 Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax losses to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
In addition to the amounts recognised above, the Group has an unrecognised deferred tax asset of approximately 30,000,000 which relates to several of the Groups subsidiary companies.
14. earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit loss attributable to equity holders of the Group by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 1 2008 2007 Profit loss attributable to equity holders of the Company 000 25,332 7,139 Weighted average number of shares in issue thousands 195,434 167,426 Basic earnings per share p 13.0 4.3 Diluted earnings per share is calculated after adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue to assume conversion of all dilutive share options.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 1 2008 2007 Profit loss attributable to equity holders of the Company 000 25,332 7,139 Weighted average number of shares in issue thousands 196,100 167,426 Diluted earnings per share p 12.9 4.3 The adjusted earnings per share is presented as the Directors consider it provides an additional indication of the underlying performance of the Group.
Adjusted earnings are calculated by making the following adjustments: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 000 000 Profit loss attributable to equity holders of the Company 25,332 7,139 Add back exceptional items note 11 6,158 Add back deferred tax credit note 13 5,374 Add back exchange gains on financing items notes 8 and 9 4,621 82 Tax effect of the above Adjusted profit loss attributable to equity holders of the Company 15,337 1,063 Applying the above adjusted earnings to the basic and diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year results in the following values for adjusted earnings per share: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 1 2008 2007 Basic adjusted earnings per share p 7.8 0.6 Diluted adjusted earnings per share p 7.8 0.6 1 Restated for change in accounting policy as described in note 1.
60 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 37 26 02 2009 10:38:40 business and financial review corporate governance accounts 15.
Intangible xed assets Goodwill arising on Customer consolidation contracts Total Group 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 2007 29,465 18,597 48,062 Foreign exchange movements 530 345 875 At 1 January 2008 29,995 18,942 48,937 Adjustment to purchase consideration 400 400 Foreign exchange movements 1,799 3,261 5,060 At 31 December 2008 31,394 22,203 53,597 Amortisation At 1 January 2007 917 917 Charge for the year 1,120 1,120 Foreign exchange movements 32 32 At 1 January 2008 2,069 2,069 Charge for the year 1,151 1,151 Foreign exchange movements 1,212 1,212 At 31 December 2008 4,432 4,432 Net book value At 31 December 2008 31,394 17,771 49,165 At 31 December 2007 29,995 16,873 46,868 The adjustment to purchase consideration relates to the Groups acquisition of Globix Holdings UK Limited.
At the time of the acquisition, an estimate was made of the total expected purchase consideration, the adjustment reflects the finalisation of this amount.
Impairment test for goodwill Goodwill is allocated to the Groups cash generating units CGUs identified according to country of operation.
A segmental-level summary of goodwill allocation is presented below: Year ended 31 December 2008 Year ended 31 December 2007 UK and Rest of UK and Rest of Ireland Europe Total Ireland Europe Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Goodwill 23,489 7,905 31,394 23,889 6,106 29,995 The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a three-year period.
Cash flows beyond the three-year period are extrapolated using the estimated growth rates stated below.
The growth rate does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the country in which the CGU operates.
The key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations of each CGU are as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 UK and Rest of UK and Rest of Ireland Europe Ireland Europe 000 000 000 000 Growth rate 3% 3% 3% 3% Pre-tax discount rate 11% 11% 10% 10% The weighted average growth rates used are consistent with the forecasts included in industry reports.
The discount rates used are pre-tax and reflect specific risks relating to the relevant segments.
Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 61 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 38 26 02 2009 10:38:41 notes to the financial statements ContInueD 16.
Included within additions to assets in the course of construction for the year, are capitalised finance and other costs principally rent and rates incurred during the construction or commissioning phase in respect of the Groups new data centres, totalling 523,000 and 3,429,000 respectively 2007: nil and 685,000.
The Company does not hold any property, plant and equipment.
62 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 39 26 02 2009 10:38:41 business and financial review corporate governance accounts 17.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost.
31 December 31 December 2008 2007 Company 000 000 At 1 January 58,803 58,496 Additions 115,221 307 At 31 December 174,024 58,803 The additions relate to a capitalisation of an inter-company loan and capitalised share-based payment expenses in accordance with IFRIC 11.
The subsidiary undertakings of the Company, the results of which are included in the consolidated Financial Statements, and their principal activities are set out below.
Proportion of nominal value Country of Description of of shares held Name of undertaking incorporation shares held % Principal activity TelecityGroup Investments Limited GB A and B 100 Intermediate holding Company TelecityGroup International Limited GB Ordinary 100 Intermediate holding Company TelecityGroup Holdings Limited GB Ordinary 100 Intermediate holding Company TeleCity UK Limited GB Ordinary 100 Intermediate holding Company TelecityGroup UK Limited GB Ordinary 100 Internet infrastructure TelecityGroup Netherlands B. V The Netherlands Ordinary 100 Internet infrastructure TelecityGroup France S. A. France Ordinary 100 Internet infrastructure TelecityGroup Germany GmbH Germany Ordinary 100 Internet infrastructure TelecityGroup Scandinavia AB Sweden Ordinary 100 Internet infrastructure TelecityGroup Italia S. p. A Italy Ordinary 100 Internet infrastructure TelecityGroup Ireland Limited Ireland Ordinary 100 Internet infrastructure TelecityGroup Spain S. A. Spain Ordinary 100 Internet infrastructure Telecity Limited GB Ordinary 100 Non-trading PLC Properties LLC USA Ordinary 100 Non-trading Amercoeur Anthracite Limited GB Ordinary 100 Non-trading Globix Holdings UK Limited GB Ordinary 100 Non-trading Globix Limited GB Ordinary 100 Non-trading GLX Leasing Limited GB Ordinary 100 Non-trading Interhouse Limited GB Ordinary 100 Non-trading Other than TelecityGroup Investments Limited, which is owned directly by Telecity Group plc, these companies are owned by intermediate holding companies.
Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 63 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 40 26 02 2009 10:38:41 notes to the financial statements ContInueD 18.
Financial instruments Financial risk management The Group has exposure to risks from its use of financial instruments.
The financial instrument risk disclosures are contained within Note 3 of the accounting policies.
Categories of financial Instruments Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in the accounting polices.
The book value of the Groups financial instruments at the year end is shown below: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 Notes 000 000 Financial assets Loans and receivables: trade receivables 19 14,352 14,735 other receivables 19 3,396 3,053 accrued income 19 2,465 1,479 Rental deposits 19 2,844 2,992 Cash and cash equivalents 20 51,506 36,961 Total financial assets 74,563 59,220 Financial liabilities Amortised cost: trade creditors 22 19,936 8,222 other creditors 22 931 159 accruals 22 13,083 12,370 borrowings 23 79,255 31,947 obligations under finance leases 24 1,538 1,268 provisions for other liabilities and charges 25 8,468 6,821 Derivative financial instruments 21 9,470 116 132,681 60,903 19. trade and other receivables Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 2008 2007 000 000 000 000 Current Trade receivables gross 17,131 16,697 Impairments 2,779 1,962 Trade receivables net 14,352 14,735 Amounts due from fellow Group companies 4,278 118,858 Other receivables 3,396 3,053 Prepayments 7,752 17,472 Accrued income 2,465 1,479 27,965 36,739 4,278 118,858 Non-current Rental deposits 2,844 2,992 The Directors consider the carrying values of these assets to approximate to their fair values due to their short maturity period.
64 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 41 26 02 2009 10:38:41 business and financial review corporate governance accounts 19. trade and other receivables continued Included within trade receivables is an amount of 8,200,000 2007: 10,063,000 in respect of amounts which are past their due date.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is considered to be little risk of default and therefore such amounts have not been impaired.
The ageing analysis of these amounts is shown below: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 000 000 Up to three months 4,804 7,684 Three to six months 1,767 2,053 More than six months 1,629 326 8,200 10,063 The impairment balance on the previous page relates to receivables with a gross value of 3,115,000 2007: 1,965,000.
The individually impaired receivables mainly relate to customers, who are in unexpectedly difficult economic situations.
Any impairment is assessed on a customer-by-customer basis following a detailed review of the particular circumstances.
To the extent they have not been specifically provided against, the trade debtors are considered to be of sound credit rating.
The ageing analysis of these amounts is shown below: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 000 000 Up to three months 1,062 541 Three to six months 713 850 More than six months 1,340 574 3,115 1,965 Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 000 000 At 1 January 1,962 3,240 Increase in provision for receivables impairment 1,562 1,760 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable 687 3,045 Unused amounts reversed 331 48 Foreign exchange movement 273 55 At 31 December 2,779 1,962 The Group holds deposits of 181,000 2007: 2,712,000 as security against the trade receivables.
The carrying amount of the Groups trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 000 000 Sterling 15,640 19,899 Euro 12,892 18,571 Swedish Krona 2,277 1,261 30,809 39,731 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 65 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 42 26 02 2009 10:38:41 notes to the financial statements ContInueD 20.
Cash and cash equivalents 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 000 000 Cash at bank and on hand 31,506 21,961 Short-term bank deposits 20,000 15,000 51,506 36,961 The Directors consider the carrying value of these assets to approximate to their fair value due to their short maturity period and the interest rate that they bear.
Derivative financial instruments Interest rate swaps The Group uses interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate movements on its bank borrowings.
At the year end the Group had the following contracts outstanding: Nominal value 000 Currency Maturity date Fixed rate 53,000 Sterling 30 September 2009 5.205% The fixed interest payments are as set out in the table above and have floating rate interest receipts at LIBOR.
The fair value of the interest rate swaps is shown below.
The fair value is based on the market values of equivalent instruments at the balance sheet date.
31 December 31 December 2008 2007 000 000 Current 1,190 39 Non-current 3,303 77 4,493 116 Foreign exchange contracts The Group uses foreign exchange contracts to manage its exposure to movements in Sterling and Euro foreign exchange rates and the consequential impact on the Groups Euro-denominated cash flows.
At the year end the Group had the following contracts to sell Euros outstanding: Value Contract date 000 Exchange rate 31 March 2009 8,000 1.2228 30 June 2009 9,000 1.2228 30 September 2009 9,500 1.2228 31 December 2009 10,000 1.2228 The fair value of the foreign exchange contracts is shown below.
31 December 31 December 2008 2007 000 000 Current 4,977 A reconciliation of the movement in the fair value of the Groups financial derivatives is shown below: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 000 000 Opening fair value 116 353 Recorded in income statement 116 469 Posted to reserves 9,470 Closing fair value 9,470 116 66 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 43 26 02 2009 10:38:42 business and financial review corporate governance accounts 22. trade and other payables Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 2008 2007 000 000 000 000 Trade creditors 19,936 8,222 Other creditors 931 159 Taxation and social security 1,745 1,500 Accruals 13,082 12,370 Deferred income 20,036 13,809 55,730 36,060 The Directors consider the carrying values of these liabilities approximate to their fair values due to their short maturity period.
The current year trade creditors balance includes creditors in respect of capital expenditure of 11,100,000.
The carrying amount of the Groups trade and other payables are denominated in the following currencies: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 000 000 Sterling 24,460 21,756 Euro 24,839 12,892 Swedish Krona 6,431 1,412 55,730 36,060 23.
Borrowings 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 000 000 Borrowings current 6,689 6,416 Borrowings non-current 72,566 25,531 79,255 31,947 The borrowings represent a secured loan of 80,380,000 2007: 33,367,000 from the Groups bankers, including interest accrued of 984,000 2007: 416,000.
The loan is secured by a debenture over all the assets of the Company, including shares in, and assets of, certain subsidiary undertakings.
Interest on the loan is charged at floating rates.
Capitalised and unamortised loan arrangement fees of 1,125,000 2007: 1,420,000 are offset against the principal debt outstanding.
The Directors consider the carrying value of the borrowings to approximate to their fair values as they attract a market rate of interest that is linked to LIBOR.
The maturity profile of borrowings is set out below: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 000 000 Within one year 6,689 6,416 In one to two years 5,705 8,376 In two or five years 11,465 17,155 In more than five years 55,396 79,255 31,947 The interest rate on part of the borrowings has been fixed as described in note 21.
The average interest rate in respect of borrowings for the year was 6.26%.
Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 67 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 44 26 02 2009 10:38:42 notes to the financial statements ContInueD 23.
Borrowings continued The carrying amount of the Groups borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 000 000 Sterling 56,577 31,947 Euro 22,678 79,255 31,947 The Group has undrawn committed loan facilities at the year end as shown below: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 000 000 Undrawn committed facilities 29,220 85,368 Included within the analysis of undrawn facilities are amounts which, although committed, require certain EBITDA multiples to be satisfied prior to drawdown.
At the year end, the Group was able to drawdown 29,220,000 2007: 42,527,000 of these facilities.
The interest rate of the undrawn committed facilities will be the applicable three-month interest rate at the date of drawdown.
24. obligations under finance lease liabilities 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 000 000 Gross lease liabilities falling due: Within one year 493 344 In one to two years 258 207 In two to five years 659 507 In more than five years 406 474 1,816 1,532 Future interest payments 278 264 1,538 1,268 Net lease liabilities: Current 421 278 Non-current 1,117 990 1,538 1,268 The Directors consider the carrying amounts of the net finance lease liabilities, which are mainly denominated in Euros, to approximate to their fair value due to the market interest rate that they bear.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Onerous Closure leases of sites Total 000 000 000 At 1 January 2007 7,159 11 7,170 Exchange differences 484 2 486 Released 276 276 Unwinding of discount 350 350 Utilised 909 909 At 1 January 2008 6,808 13 6,821 Exchange differences 2,078 2,078 Released 191 13 204 Unwinding of discount 326 326 Utilised 553 553 At 31 December 2008 8,468 8,468 The provision for onerous leases relates to the estimated discounted future costs of a lease in Munich and a lease in the UK.
It is expected that this provision will settled in approximately equal annual amounts over a period of nine years.
The Directors consider the carrying values of the provisions to approximate to their fair values as they have been discounted at 10%.
68 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 45 26 02 2009 10:38:42 business and financial review corporate governance accounts 25.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges continued The maturity profile of provisions is set out below: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 000 000 Provisions current 967 827 Provisions non-current 7,501 5,994 8,468 6,821 26.
Share capital 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 Company and Group 000 000 Authorised 496,431,508 ordinary 2007: 496,431,508 shares of 0.002 each 993 993 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 Company and Group 000 000 Allotted 198,092,373 ordinary 2007: 198,092,373 shares of 0.002 each 396 396 The ordinary shares carry no right to fixed income and each ordinary share carries one vote at general meetings.
During the year, 231,000 shares were issued under the Groups share options schemes for total consideration of 181,000.
Share options Under the Groups long-term incentive schemes, share options are granted to senior management.
In addition, the Group operates a sharesave scheme which is available to all staff.
The details of the share option schemes are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 35.
The following options, including those in respect of the sharesave scheme, were outstanding at the year end: 2008 2007 Average Number Average Number exercise price of share exercise price of share per share options per share options 000 000 At 1 January 1.68 3,075 0.78 684 Granted 2.12 1,864 1.93 2,391 Forfeited 1.18 207 Exercised 0.78 231 At 31 December 1.82 4,501 1.68 3,075 At the year end 830,000 2007: 175,000 of the above share options had vested.
The share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry dates and exercise prices: Number of share options Exercise price per share 2008 2007 Expiry date 000 000 May 2017 0.78 831 1,210 October 2017 2.20 1,562 1,611 May 2011 2.62 254 254 March 2018 2.12 1,854 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 69 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 46 26 02 2009 10:38:42 notes to the financial statements ContInueD 27.
Share options continued Options granted during the year were valued using the Black Scholes option-pricing model.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: March Grant date 2008 Share price 2.12 Exercise price 2.12 Expected volatility % 29.5 Expected life years 3.5 Risk free rate % 5.5 Expected dividend yield % Nil Fair value per option 0.63 Due to the lack of a sufficiently long track record, the expected volatility was determined by reference to the share price volatility experienced by other companies in the same sector and the Software and Computer Services sector as a whole.
The expected life is calculated on the assumption that employees will exercise the option shortly after vesting.
The charge arising from share-based payments is disclosed in note 7.
Statement of changes in equity Share Cumulative Share premium Retained Own translation capital account profit shares reserve Total Group 000 000 000 000 000 000 At 1 January 2007 325 102,342 19,476 481 82,710 Loss for the year 7,824 7,824 Credit to equity for share-based payments 307 307 Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investments 5,244 5,244 Issue of shares 71 74,295 4,447 69,919 At 1 January 2008 as previously reported 396 176,637 26,993 4,447 4,763 150,356 Prior year adjustment note 2.2 102,456 103,141 685 At 1 January 2008 as restated 396 74,181 76,148 4,447 4,763 151,041 Profit for the year 25,332 25,332 Credit to equity for share-based payments 907 907 Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investments 20,567 20,567 Cash flow hedges 9,470 9,470 Issue of shares 54 181 127 At 31 December 2008 396 74,127 92,917 4,266 25,330 188,504 Own shares held by the Group represent 2,571,000 2007: 2,802,000 shares in Telecity Group plc.
All shares are held by the EBT.
These shares are listed on a recognised stock exchange and their market value and nominal value at 31 December 2008 was 4,525,000 2007: 8,406,000 and 5,000 2007: 6,000 respectively.
The EBT is a discretionary trust for the benefit of employees and the shares held are used to satisfy some of the Groups obligations to employees for share options and Long-Term Incentive Plans.
Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investments arise from the re-translation of the net investments in overseas subsidiaries, including long-term inter-company loans that are considered part of the Groups investment in its subsidiaries.
Share Cumulative Share premium Retained Other translation capital account profit reserve reserve Total Company 000 000 000 000 000 000 At 1 January 2007 325 102,342 321 102,988 Credit to equity for share-based payments 307 307 Issue of shares 71 74,295 74,366 At 1 January 2008 as previously reported 396 176,637 628 177,661 Prior year adjustment note 2.2 102,456 102,456 At 1 January 2008 as restated 396 74,181 102,456 628 177,661 Loss for the year 212 212 Credit to equity for share-based payments 907 907 Issue of shares 54 54 At 31 December 2008 396 74,127 102,244 1,535 178,302 70 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 47 26 02 2009 10:38:42 business and financial review corporate governance accounts 29.
Cash ow from operating activities and reconciliation of consolidated net debt Reconciliation of profit loss on ordinary activities before taxation to net cash inflow from operating activities: 31 December 31 December 1 2008 2007 000 000 Profit loss on ordinary activities before taxation 20,019 7,073 Add finance costs 8,668 8,383 Less finance income 10,364 523 Add IPO-related costs 2,877 Depreciation charge 20,952 17,414 Intangible asset amortisation 1,151 1,120 Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 11 8 Share-based payment charges 907 307 Movement in receivables 3,774 2,338 Movement in payables 3,674 165 Movement in provisions 806 349 Exchange movement 200 663 Net cash inflow from operating activities 47,786 18,998 Reconciliation of consolidated net debt: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 000 000 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 9,183 26,441 Cash inflow outflow from movement in debt 41,934 29,024 Change in net debt 32,751 55,465 Effects of foreign exchange rate change 282 1,317 Movement in net debt in the period 33,033 54,148 Net cash debt at beginning of year 3,746 50,402 Net debt cash at end of year 29,287 3,746 30.
Financial commitments The Group had minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows: Land and buildings Other 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 2008 2007 000 000 000 000 Expiring: Within one year 20,871 17,047 156 131 Between two and five years 80,056 63,920 145 183 In more than five years 213,830 101,852 314,757 182,819 301 314 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 000 000 Operating lease payments incurred during the year property 16,454 13,473 plant and machinery 7 other 274 105 16,728 13,585 31.
Capital commitments Capital expenditure that had been contracted for but not provided for in the financial statements at 31 December 2008 amounted to 81,159,000 2007: 31,505,000.
1 Restated for change in accounting policy as described in note 2.2.
Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 71 3 TCY ar08 back.
indd 48 26 02 2009 10:38:43 notes to the financial statements ContInueD 32.
Contingent liabilities Financial guarantees granted by the Groups banks in respect of operating leases amount to 9,400,000 at 31 December 2008 2007: 6,946,000.
At 31 December 2008 the estimated discounted cost of reinstating leasehold properties at the end of leases in accordance with the lease contracts amounted to 6,158,000 2007: 5,681,000.
The leases expire over a range of two to 20 years.
In accordance with the Group accounting policy, no amount has been provided in the financial statements as it is not considered probable that such liabilities will be incurred, as the Group expects to exercise its right to renew its leases when they expire and continue to use them as data centres.
Related party transactions Group Relationship agreement At the time of the Companys IPO, its two largest related shareholder groups, 3i and Oak Hill as detailed in the substantial shareholding table on page 25 entered into a relationship agreement with the Company.
In terms of that agreement, each of these shareholder groups agreed that they will, and will procure so far as they are reasonably able, that each of their related parties will amongst other things : a conduct all transactions, arrangements, agreements and relationships with any member of the Group on arms length terms and on a normal commercial basis: b not take any action which precludes or inhibits any member of the Group from carrying on its business independently of them: c comply with all provisions of the Listing Rules, the requirements of the London Stock Exchange and the FSMA that apply to it in connection with the Company: d procure that the business and affairs of the Company are conducted in accordance with the Companys Articles: and e abstain from voting on any resolution required by paragraph 11.1.
7R 3 of the Listing Rules to approve a transaction with a related party as defined in paragraph 11.1.
5R of the Listing Rules involving such shareholder of any of its associates as the related party.
In addition to their voting rights on the appointment and removal of Directors, for so long as the shareholders and their respective related parties have an interest in 10% or more of the issued share capital of the Company, then the two shareholder groups will be entitled to nominate for appointment to the Board one Non-Executive Director.
It shall, however, be a term of any such Directors appointment that such Director shall resign in certain circumstances if requested to do so by the Board in order to make the Company compliant or more compliant with the provisions relating to Board composition in the Combined Code.
The shareholders have the right to require the removal or replacement of the Director, nominated by them, from office in certain circumstances.
Unless the relevant shareholders give written notice to the Company that they do not wish the Director nominated by them to be nominated for re-election at the time that Director is required to resign and seek re-election, the Company shall ensure that they are recommended for re-election.
The right of each of those shareholder groups to nominate the appointment, replacement or removal of a Director, shall terminate in the event that they and their respective related parties collectively no longer have an interest in 10% or more of the issued share capital of the Company, whether or not they later acquire such interest.
Company During the year, a dormant subsidiary company, Inhoco 3213 Limited, was liquidated in order to simplify the Group structure.
As part of this corporate restructuring, the Company acquired the entire share capital of TelecityGroup Investments Limited from Inhoco 3213.
In addition, the Company converted 114,780,000 of intercompany funding with TelecityGroup Investments Limited into an investment in that company.
Post balance sheet events There have been no post balance sheet events.
72 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 3 TCY ar08 back.
