CASH-SETTLED SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS IFRS An asset is impaired if the recoverable amount is lower than the assets carrying amount.
The recoverable amount is Canadian GAAP The liability for cash-settled share-based dened as the higher of the assets fair value less cost to sell and payments is accrued based upon the intrinsic value of the award.
The value-in-use calculation involves discounting IFRS The liability for cash-settled share-based awards is the expected future cash ows to be generated by the asset to measured at the fair value of vested awards, using an option their net present value.
Changes in fair value are recognized in the period of change.
Financial Instruments HEDGE ACCOUNTING MEASUREMENT OF DEFERRED TAX ASSETS Canadian GAAP Effectiveness for compound derivative Canadian GAAP Deferred tax assets for share-based awards instruments that hedge currency and interest rate risk is assumed are based upon the cumulative amount of compensation cost provided the critical terms of the derivative instrument are recognized.
consistent with the hedged instrument.
IFRS Deferred tax assets for share-based awards are based IFRS Effectiveness for compound derivative instruments must upon the estimated tax deduction, which is generally the intrinsic be assessed retrospectively and prospectively each reporting value of the vested award at the balance sheet date.
As a result, certain hedge relationships had to be deduction exceeds the cumulative compensation expense, the prospectively discontinued as of the transition date of adoption excess is recognized in equity.
If no tax deduction is anticipated of IAS 32 and IAS 39. because the fair value of the shares has declined, then the deferred tax asset is reversed to earnings or equity as appropriate, VALUATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS depending on how the asset was originally recorded.
REFLECTING CREDIT RISK EMPLOYER TAXES Canadian GAAP Current Canadian GAAP does not set out specic requirements for the determination and measurement of Canadian GAAP Employer taxes on share-based compensation credit risk in determining the fair values of financial instruments.
are recognized upon exercise of the instrument.
A new pronouncement related to the consideration of credit risk has IFRS Employer taxes on share-based compensation are been issued and we will be adopting the applicable pronouncement recognized over the vesting period based upon the fair value of the effective the first quarter of 2009. awards at each balance sheet date.
IFRS IFRS contains specic guidance regarding the determination and measurement of credit risk and such guidance is applicable 4.
Cumulative Translation Adjustment Canadian GAAP Assets held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell, where the Under both Canadian GAAP and IFRS, foreign currency gains carrying amount for purposes of determining impairment includes or losses on intercompany loans that are deemed to be part cumulative translation adjustments.
of a net investment in a subsidiary are reected within CTA in shareholders equity.
Upon repayment of such loans, any related IFRS Assets held for sale are measured at the lower of their deferred foreign currency gain or loss is reclassied from CTA into carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell, where the carrying earnings.
However, these amounts will differ due to the IFRS 1 amount excludes cumulative translation adjustments.
Upon sale election to reset the CTA balance to zero at transition date.
of the assets, the amount of the cumulative translation adjustment is included in the determination of the gain or loss on sale.
Minority Interest REVERSAL OF IMPAIRMENTS Canadian GAAP Minority interest in the equity of a consolidated subsidiary is classied as a separate balance sheet component Canadian GAAP Reversal of impairment loss is not permitted.
Minority interest in the profit or IFRS Reversal of impairment loss is required for assets other loss of a consolidated subsidiary is presented as a component than goodwill if certain criteria are met.
IFRS Minority interest in equity of a consolidated subsidiary RECOVERABLE AMOUNT is classied as a component of equity but separate from the Canadian GAAP A two-step approach is used to measure equity of the parent.
Minority interest in the profit or loss of a impairment.
In step 1, a recoverability test is performed by consolidated afliate is presented as an allocation of earnings.
comparing the expected undiscounted future cash ows to be derived from the asset with its carrying amount.
If the asset fails the recoverability test, step 2 is triggered, and the entity must record an impairment loss calculated as the excess of the assets carrying amount over its fair value.
