MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS Under these new standards, all financial instruments, including ACCOUNTING POLICIES derivatives, are included on our consolidated balance sheet and are Changes in Accounting Policies measured either at fair market value or, in limited circumstances, at cost or amortized cost.
Derivatives that qualify as hedging INCOME TAXES instruments must be designated as either a cash ow hedge, Effective January 1, 2007, we voluntarily adopted a new accounting when the hedged item is a future cash ow, or a fair value hedge, policy for uncertain income tax positions.
As a result of this change when the hedged item is the fair value of a recognized asset or in accounting policy, we recorded a non-cash charge of $33 million liability.
The effective portion of unrealized gains and losses related to our opening retained earnings as of January 1, 2007 with an to a cash ow hedge are included in other comprehensive income.
offsetting increase to non-current liabilities.
For a fair value hedge, both the derivative and the hedged item are recorded at fair value in our consolidated balance sheet and Under our previous policy, we would reserve for tax positions the unrealized gains and losses from both items are included if it was probable that an uncertain position would not be upheld.
For derivatives that do not qualify as hedging Under our new policy, we evaluate a tax position using a two-step instruments, unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings.
process: In accordance with the provisions of these new standards, First, we determine whether it is more likely than not that we reected the following adjustments as of January 1, 2006: a tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based an increase of $53 million to Other non-current assets and on the technical merits of the position.
In evaluating whether Accumulated other comprehensive income in the consolidated a tax position has met the more likely than not recognition balance sheet relative to derivative instruments that consisted threshold, we presume that the position will be examined by primarily of interest rate contracts, which convert oating rate the appropriate taxing authority that has full knowledge of debt to xed rate debt and qualify as cash ow hedges: all relevant information.
a reclassication of $5 million from Other current assets Second, a tax position that meets the more likely than not and $3 million from Other current liabilities to Accumulated recognition threshold is measured to determine the amount of other comprehensive income in the consolidated balance sheet benefit to recognize in the financial statements.
The tax position related primarily to previously deferred gains and losses on is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than settled cash ow hedges: 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement.
If the tax an increase of $16 million to Other non-current assets andposition does not meet the more-likely-than-not recognition Long-term debt in the consolidated balance sheet related to threshold, no benefit from the tax position is recorded.
derivative instruments and their related hedged items.
These We were not able to retroactively apply this new policy as the derivative instruments consist primarily of interest rate contracts data to determine the amounts and probabilities of the possible to convert xed rate debt to oating and qualify as fair value outcomes of the various tax positions that could be realized upon hedges: and ultimate settlement was not collected in prior periods.
Further, a presentational reclassication of amounts previously recorded significant judgments are involved in assessing these tax positions in Cumulative translation adjustment to Accumulated other and we concluded that it is not possible to estimate the effects comprehensive income.
of adopting the policy at an earlier date.
The adoption of these new standards had no material impact on FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME our consolidated statement of earnings.
The unrealized gains and losses included in Accumulated other comprehensive income As of December 31, 2007, we adopted Canadian Institute of were recorded net of taxes, which were nil.
Chartered Accountants CICA Handbook Section 1535, Capital Disclosures, and CICA Handbook Section 3862, Financial STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION Instruments Disclosures.
In July 2006, we adopted EIC Abstract 162, Stock-Based Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted CICA Handbook Section 1530, Compensation for Employees Eligible to Retire Before the Vesting Comprehensive Income, CICA Handbook Section 3855, Financial Date EIC-162, retroactively to January 1, 2006.
The abstract Instruments Recognition and Measurement and CICA Handbook claries the proper accounting for stock-based awards granted Section 3865, Hedges.
These new Handbook Sections provide to employees who either are eligible for retirement at the grant comprehensive requirements for the recognition and date or will be eligible before the end of the vesting period and measurement of financial instruments, as well as standards on continue vesting after, or vest upon, retirement.
In such cases, the when and how hedge accounting may be applied.
Handbook compensation expense associated with the stock-based award Section 1530 also introduces a new component of equity referred will be recognized over the period from the grant date to the date to as accumulated other comprehensive income.
the employee becomes eligible to retire.
EIC-162 did not have a significant impact on our financial statements.
44 THOMSON REUTERS For all accounts receivable, we must make a judgment regarding Critical Accounting Policies the ability of our customers to pay and, accordingly, we establish The preparation of our financial statements requires management an allowance for estimated losses arising from non-payment.
to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the We consider customer creditworthiness, current economic trends reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent and our past experience when evaluating the adequacy of this assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the allowance.
If future collections differ from our estimates, our reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting future earnings would be affected.
Our estimates are based on historical experience and on At December 31, 2008, our combined allowances on our accounts various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under receivable balance were $124 million 2007 $81 million, or 7% the circumstances.
The result of our ongoing evaluation of these 2007 5% of the gross accounts receivable balance.
A 1% estimates forms the basis for making judgments about the carrying increase in this percentage would have resulted in additional values of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of expense of approximately $19 million 2007 $16 million.
revenues and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under CAPITALIZED SOFTWARE different assumptions.
A significant portion of our expenditures relates to software that Our critical accounting policies are those that we believe are the is developed as part of our electronic databases, delivery systems most important in portraying our financial condition and results, and internal infrastructures, and, to a lesser extent, software and require the most subjective judgment and estimates on the sold directly to our customers.
During the software development part of management.
A summary of our significant accounting process, our judgment is required to determine the expected period policies, including the critical accounting policies discussed below, of benefit over which capitalized costs should be amortized.
Due is set forth in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements.
to rapidly changing technology and the uncertainty of the software development process itself, our future results could be affected REVENUE RECOGNITION if our current assessment of our various projects differs from actual Revenues from subscription-based products, excluding software, performance.
At December 31, 2008, we had approximately generally are recognized ratably over the term of the subscription.
$1.3 billion 2007 $721 million of capitalized costs related to Where applicable, we recognize usage fees as earned.
Subscription software on our consolidated balance sheet.
The increase of payments received or receivable in advance of delivery of our $577 million as compared to 2007 is primarily due to acquired products or services are included in our deferred revenue account developed technology from the Reuters acquisition.
on our consolidated balance sheet.
As we deliver subscriptionbased products and services to subscribers, we recognize the IDENTIFIABLE INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL proportionate share of deferred revenue in our consolidated We account for our business acquisitions using the purchase statement of earnings and our deferred revenue account balance is method of accounting.
We allocate the total cost of an acquisition reduced.
Certain incremental costs that are directly related to the to the underlying net assets based on their respective estimated subscription revenue are deferred and amortized over the fair values.
As part of this allocation process, we must identify and subscription period.
attribute values and estimated lives to the intangible assets Increasingly, we derive revenue from the sale of software products, acquired.
These determinations involve significant estimates and license fees, software subscriptions, product support, professional assumptions, including those with respect to future cash inows services, transaction fees and multiple element arrangements and outows, discount rates and asset lives, and therefore require that may include any combination of these items.
These determinations will affect the recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement amount of amortization expense recognized in future periods.
exists, we have delivered the product or performed the service, the As the valuation of identiable intangible assets and goodwill fee is xed or determinable and collectibility is probable.
However, requires significant estimates and judgment about future determining whether and when some of these criteria have been performance and fair values, our future results could be affected satisfied often involves assumptions and judgments that can have a if our current estimates of future performance and fair values significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue we report.
At December 31, 2008, identiable intangible assets and For multiple element arrangements we must make assumptions goodwill amounted to $27.9 billion or 78% of our total assets and judgments in order to allocate the total price among the on our consolidated balance sheet.
various elements we must deliver to determine whether undelivered services are essential to the functionality of the delivered products We review the carrying values of identiable intangible assets and services, to determine whether objective evidence of fair value with indefinite lives and goodwill at least annually to assess exists for each undelivered element and to determine whether and impairment because these assets are not amortized.
Additionally, when each element has been delivered.
If we were to change any of we review the carrying value of any intangible asset or goodwill these assumptions or judgments, it could cause a material increase whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Examples of such events period.
Amounts for fees collected or invoiced and due relating to or changes in circumstances include significant negative industry arrangements where revenue cannot be recognized are reected on or economic trends, significant changes in the manner of our use our balance sheet as deferred revenue and recognized when the of the acquired assets or our strategy, a significant decrease in the applicable revenue recognition criteria are satisfied.
market value of the asset, or a significant change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of the asset.
ANNUAL REPORT 2008 45 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS We assess impairment by comparing the fair value of an equity ratios of competitors and incorporated equity premiums, identiable intangible asset or goodwill with its carrying value.
size premiums and risk premiums.
In general, these rates were The determination of fair value involves significant management higher than those utilized in the prior years annual test.
Impairments are expensed when incurred.
Specically, the market approach, we estimated fair value based on EBITDA we test for impairment as follows: multiples of competitors.
These estimates also included a control premium.
We weighted these two methods based on our view Identiable Intangible Assets with Finite Lives of the reasonableness of the measures as follows: 60% income We compare the expected undiscounted future operating cash approach 40% market approach.
Given the current volatility ows associated with the asset to its carrying value to determine of capital markets, we believe it is appropriate to apply a heavier if the asset is recoverable.
If the expected future operating cash weighting to the income approach.
As the fair value of each of ows are not sufficient to recover the carrying value, we estimate the reporting units was greater than its carrying value, we did not the fair value of the asset.
Impairment is recognized when the proceed to the second step of the test.
carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable and when the Our largest reporting unit is the Markets division.
The Reuters carrying value exceeds fair value.
net assets included in this reporting unit were recently acquired Identiable Intangible Assets with indefinite Lives and recorded at their fair value as of April 17, 2008.
Based on the results of our annual test, the fair value of this reporting unit Selected trade names comprise the entire balance of our identiable exceeded its carrying value.
Projections of future revenues were intangible assets with indefinite lives.
We determine the fair values a critical estimate in determining fair value.
Given the current of our intangible assets with indefinite lives using an income market environment, we will continue to monitor the performance approach, specically the relief from royalties method.
Impairment of this reporting unit against what we believe to be conservative is recognized when the carrying amount exceeds fair value.
Goodwill INCOME TAXES We test goodwill for impairment on a reporting unit level.
A reporting unit is a business for which: a discrete financial We are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the information is available: and b segment management regularly jurisdictions in which we operate.
For interim periods, we provide reviews the operating results of that business.
Two or more income taxes based on our estimate of how much we will earn in businesses shall be aggregated and deemed a single reporting each jurisdiction for the full year.
To the extent that our forecasts unit if the businesses have similar economic characteristics.
differ from actual results, we must true-up our estimates of We test goodwill for impairment using the following two-step income tax expense.
Actual amounts of income tax expense only approach: become final upon ling and acceptance of the tax return by the relevant authorities, which occur subsequent to the issuance of the In the first step, we determine the fair value of each reporting financial statements.
To the extent our estimates differ from the unit.
If the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying final tax return, our earnings would be affected in a subsequent value, this is an indicator that the goodwill assigned to that period.
For 2008, our effective tax rate was 19.8% of our earnings reporting unit might be impaired, which requires performance from continuing operations before income taxes.
A 1% increase in of the second step.
our effective tax rate would have resulted in additional income In the second step, we allocate the fair value of the reporting tax expense of approximately $18 million.
unit to the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit as if it had Estimation of income taxes includes estimating a value for our just been acquired in a business combination, and as if the existing net operating losses based on our assessment of our purchase price was equivalent to the fair value of the reporting ability to utilize them against future taxable income before they unit.
The excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the expire.
Our assessment is based upon existing tax laws and amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is referred to as estimates of future taxable income.
If our assessment of our ability the implied fair value of goodwill.
We then compare that to use our net operating losses proves inaccurate in the future, we implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill to the carrying might be required to recognize more or less of the net operating value of that goodwill.
If the implied fair value is less than the losses as assets, which would decrease or increase our income tax carrying value, we recognize an impairment loss for that excess.
expense in the relevant year.
This would affect our earnings in We performed our annual test for goodwill impairment in the that year.
fourth quarter of 2008 in accordance with this policy.
In the Effective January 1, 2007, we voluntarily adopted a new accounting first step of the test, the fair values of our reporting units were policy for uncertain income tax positions.
As a result of this change determined using the weighted average of two methods: an in accounting policy, we recorded a non-cash charge of $33 million income approach and a market approach.
Under the income to our opening retained earnings as of January 1, 2007 with an approach, we estimated fair values for each reporting unit based offsetting increase to non-current liabilities.
See the section entitled on the present value of expected future cash ows and a terminal Changes in Accounting Policy for a description of our new policy.
The expected cash ows were derived from our internal plans and adjusted for the probability of various scenarios that Our accounting for income taxes requires us to exercise judgment considered the market environment in which the reporting unit for issues relating to known matters under discussion with tax operates and general economic conditions.
The terminal values authorities and transactions yet to be settled.
It is reasonably incorporated a perpetual growth rate that varied by reporting unit possible that actual amounts payable resulting from audits by based upon markets, trends and growth prospects.
The discount tax authorities could be materially different from the liabilities we rates used for each reporting unit were based upon the debt-tohave recorded due to the complex nature of the tax legislation that affects us.
