Thomson Reuters Corporation Common Shares TAXATION The purpose of this summary is to provide Thomson Reuters DIVIDENDS shareholders with general information related to Canadian, U. K. Dividends received on the Thomson Reuters Corporation common and U. S. taxation considerations.
This summary is not exhaustive shares by a Holder that is an individual will be included in the of all possible Canadian, U. K. and U. S. tax considerations applicable individuals income and will be subject to the gross-up and to an investment in Thomson Reuters shares.
Accordingly, the dividend tax credit rules normally applicable to taxable dividends following summary is of a general nature only and is not intended received from taxable Canadian corporations, including the to constitute legal or income tax advice to shareholders.
enhanced gross-up and dividend tax credit rules applicable to Shareholders should consult their own tax advisors regarding any dividends designated by Thomson Reuters Corporation as their own particular circumstances.
eligible dividends in accordance with the provisions of the Tax Act Canada.
Dividends on the Thomson Reuters Corporation Certain Canadian Income Tax Considerations common shares received by a Holder that is a corporation will be for Shareholders of Thomson Reuters Corporation included in computing the corporations income and will generally and Thomson Reuters PLC be deductible in computing the taxable income of the corporation.
A private corporation as dened in the Tax Act Canada, or any The following is a summary of the principal Canadian federal other corporation controlled by or for the benefit of an individual income tax considerations under the Income Tax Act Canada, or a related group of individuals, will generally be liable to pay a referred to as the Tax Act Canada, generally applicable as of the 1 33 3% refundable tax under Part IV of the Tax Act Canada on date hereof to a holder of Thomson Reuters Corporation common dividends received on the Thomson Reuters Corporation common shares or Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares who, at all shares to the extent such dividends are deductible in computing relevant times, deals at arms length and is not afliated with its taxable income.
Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC and holds the Thomson Reuters Corporation common shares or CAPITAL GAINS ON DISPOSITIONS Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares, as the case may be, as capital property each referred to as a Holder all within the In general, the disposition or deemed disposition of a Thomson meaning of the Tax Act Canada.
Thomson Reuters Corporation Reuters Corporation common share will give rise to a capital gain common shares or Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares will or capital loss to the extent that the proceeds of disposition, net generally be considered to be capital property to a Holder unless of any reasonable costs of disposition, exceed or are less than the they are held in the course of carrying on a business or acquired adjusted cost base of such share to the Holder immediately before in a transaction or transactions considered to be an adventure the disposition.
The general rules with respect to the taxation of in the nature of trade.
capital gains and capital losses are described below.
In addition, if This summary is not applicable to a Holder that is a financial the Holder is a corporation, any capital loss realized on a disposition institution for purposes of the mark-to-market property rules.
or deemed disposition of a Thomson Reuters Corporation common This summary is also not applicable to a Holder of Thomson share may in certain circumstances be reduced by the amount of Reuters PLC ordinary shares in respect of which Thomson Reuters any dividends which have been received on such share to the extent PLC is a foreign afliate within the meaning of the Tax Act and under the circumstances prescribed by the Tax Act Canada.
Such Holders should consult their own tax advisors Analogous rules apply to a partnership or trust of which a having regard to their particular circumstances.
corporation, trust or partnership is a member or beneciary.
This summary is based upon the current provisions of the Tax Act Thomson Reuters PLC Ordinary Shares Canada and the regulations thereunder, specic proposals to DIVIDENDS amend the Tax Act Canada the Proposed Amendments which have been announced by or on behalf the Minister of Finance Dividends received on Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares Canada prior to the date hereof, and the administrative policies by a Holder that is an individual will be included in computing the and assessing practices of the Canada Revenue Agency CRA individuals income for tax purposes and will not be subject to the published in writing prior to the date hereof.
This summary does gross-up and dividend tax credit rules which are applicable to not take into account or anticipate any future changes in law, dividends received from taxable Canadian corporations.
A Holder whether by way of judicial, legislative or governmental decision that is a corporation will include dividends received on the or action, including future changes that may be applied retroactively, Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares in computing its income nor does it take into account provincial, territorial or non-Canadian for tax purposes and will not be entitled to deduct the amount of income tax legislation or considerations, which may differ from such dividends in computing its taxable income.
A Holder that is the Canadian federal income tax considerations discussed herein.
a Canadian-controlled private corporation as dened in the Tax This part of the summary is applicable only to Holders who, for Act Canada may be liable to pay an additional refundable tax of 2 purposes of the Tax Act Canada and at all relevant times, are 6 3% in respect of its aggregate investment income for the year, resident in Canada.
ANNUAL REPORT 2008 129 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CAPITAL GAINS ON DISPOSITIONS C$500: ii the aggregate fair market value of the Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares held by the Holder, together with In general, the disposition or deemed disposition of a Thomson persons with whom the Holder does not deal at arms length for Reuters PLC ordinary share will give rise to a capital gain or purposes of the Tax Act Canada, did not exceed 10% of the fair capital loss to the extent that the proceeds of disposition, net of market value of all of the Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares any reasonable costs of disposition, exceed or are less than the held by any individual or entity at that time: and iii it was adjusted cost base of such share to the Holder immediately before reasonable to conclude that the Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary the disposition.
The general rules with respect to the taxation of shares could normally be acquired and sold by members of the capital gains and capital losses are described below.
The Holder public in the open market.
Holders should consult their own tax may be entitled to claim a foreign tax credit or deduction in advisors regarding the existing FIE Proposals generally in respect respect of any U. K. tax payable by the Holder on any gain realized of the Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares, including the on such disposition or deemed disposition under the Tax Act determination of whether or not they have a tax avoidance motive Canada.
Holders are advised to consult their own tax advisors for the purposes of such proposals.
with respect to the availability of a credit or deduction to them having regard to their particular circumstances.
FOREIGN PROPERTY INFORMATION REPORTING CURRENCY A Holder that is a specified Canadian entity for a taxation year and whose total cost amount of specified foreign property at any For purposes of the Tax Act Canada, all amounts, including time in the year exceeds C$100,000 as such terms are dened in dividends, adjusted cost base and proceeds of disposition, must the Tax Act Canada will be required to le an information return be expressed in Canadian dollars.
The amount of capital gains for the year to disclose certain prescribed information.
Subject to and losses may be affected by virtue of changes in foreign certain exceptions, a taxpayer resident in Canada will generally be currency exchange rates.
For purposes of the Tax Act Canada, a specified Canadian entity.
Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares amounts denominated in GBP generally must be converted into come within the denition of specified foreign property.
Holders Canadian dollars using the rate of exchange quoted by the Bank should consult their own tax advisors as to whether they must of Canada at noon on the date such amounts first arose, or such comply with these reporting requirements.
other rate of exchange as is acceptable to the CRA.
Treatment of Capital Gains and Capital Losses PROPOSALS REGARDING FOREIGN INVESTMENT ENTITIES One-half of the amount of any capital gain referred to as a The Minister of Finance Canada has introduced Proposed taxable capital gain realized by a Holder in a taxation year must Amendments relating to the tax treatment of investments by be included in computing the Holders income in that year, and Canadian residents in non-resident entities that are foreign one-half of the amount of any capital loss referred to as an investment entities FIEs.
These measures FIE Proposals were allowable capital loss realized by a Holder in a taxation year to be applicable to taxation years commencing after 2006. generally may be deducted from taxable capital gains realized However, the January 27, 2009 Federal Budget announced that by the Holder in that year.
Allowable capital losses in excess of the Government of Canada will review the existing FIE Proposals taxable capital gains may be carried back and deducted in any in light of submissions that it has received before proceeding with of the three preceding taxation years or carried forward and measures in the area.
Accordingly, no assurances can be given deducted in any following taxation year against taxable capital that the FIE Proposals will be enacted as currently proposed.
gains realized in such years to the extent and under the circumstances described in the Tax Act Canada.
Under the existing FIE Proposals, a holder of an interest in a FIE, other than an exempt interest, will generally be required Capital gains realized by an individual and certain trusts may result to include in computing income annually an imputed return in the individual or trust paying alternative minimum tax under the calculated as a prescribed percentage of the holders designated Tax Act Canada.
Taxable capital gains of a Canadian controlled cost of such interest, unless such holder can qualify for certain private corporation as dened in the Tax Act Canada may be alternative methods of taxation.
A corporation will not be a FIE at 2 subject to an additional refundable tax at a rate of 6 3%.
the end of a taxation year provided that either: i at such time, the carrying value of all of its investment property will not be Thomson Reuters Corporation Common Shares greater than one-half of the carrying value of all its property: or Non-Resident Holders ii throughout the relevant taxation year, its principal undertaking will have been the carrying on of a business that is not an This part of the summary is applicable only to Holders who, for investment business.
In any event, in general, the existing FIE purposes of the Tax Act Canada and at all relevant times, are not Proposals will not apply to the Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary resident in Canada, do not use or hold and will not use or hold, shares so long as such shares qualify as an arms length interest and are not deemed to use or hold, the common shares in or in the under the existing FIE Proposals, are listed on a prescribed stock course of carrying on a business in Canada and do not carry on an exchange which currently includes the London Stock Exchange insurance business in Canada and elsewhere Non-resident Holder.
and it is reasonable to conclude that the Holder has no tax avoidance motive in respect of the shares.
Generally, the Thomson Dividends Reuters PLC ordinary shares would be an arms length interest Dividends paid or credited by Thomson Reuters Corporation to of a Holder for purposes of the existing FIE Proposals at a a Non-resident Holder generally will be subject to Canadian particular time provided that: i it was reasonable to conclude withholding at the rate of 25%, subject to the application of the that there were at least 150 persons each of whom held Thomson relevant income tax convention with Canada.
"If the Non-resident Reuters PLC ordinary shares having a total value of at least 130 THOMSON REUTERS Holder is entitled to benets under the Treaty, dividends on the aggregate of the dividend and the tax credit the gross dividend"" common shares generally will be subject to Canadian withholding which will be regarded as the top slice of the individuals income."
The tax credit will be equal to 10% of the gross dividend i. e. the tax credit will be one-ninth of the amount of the dividend.
Capital Gains on Dispositions A U. K. resident individual shareholder who is not liable to income A Non-resident Holder will not be subject to tax under the Tax Act tax in respect of the gross dividend will not be entitled to reclaim any part of the tax credit.
A U. K. resident shareholder who is liable Canada in respect of any capital gain realized on the disposition of common shares provided that the common shares do not constitute to income tax at the basic rate will be subject to income tax on the taxable Canadian property for purposes of the Tax Act Canada.
dividend at the rate of 10% of the gross dividend so that the tax Provided that the common shares are listed on a designated stock credit will satisfy in full such shareholders liability to income tax on the dividend.
A U. K. resident individual shareholder liable to exchange which includes the Toronto Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange immediately before the time of disposition, income tax at the higher rate will be subject to income tax on the the common shares will generally not constitute taxable Canadian gross dividend at 32.5% but will be able to set the tax credit off property to a Non-resident Holder at that time unless, at any time against part of this liability.
The effect of that set off of the tax credit is that such a shareholder will have to account for additional during the five-year period immediately preceding that time, 25% or more of the issued shares of any class or series of a class of the tax equal to one quarter of the net cash dividend received.
capital stock of Thomson Reuters Corporation was owned by the U. K. Resident Companies Non-resident Holder, by persons with whom the Non-resident Holder did not deal at arms length, or by the Non-resident Holder A corporate shareholder resident in the U. K. for tax purposes will and any such persons.
Common shares can be deemed to be not normally be subject to corporation tax on any dividend taxable Canadian property in certain circumstances set out in the received from Thomson Reuters PLC.
Such corporate shareholders Tax Act Canada.
In the event the common shares constitute will not be able to claim repayment of the tax credit attaching to taxable Canadian property to a particular Non-resident Holder, any dividend.
a capital gain realized on the disposition of such common shares On December 9, 2008, HMRC and HM Treasury issued draft will generally be exempt from tax under the Tax Act Canada if legislation for consultation in relation to the taxation of dividends the Non-resident Holder is entitled to benets under the Treaty.
including those paid by a U. K. resident company with a view to implementing these reforms in Finance Bill 2009.
If implemented, Certain U. K. Tax Considerations for Shareholders dividends received by a U. K. company from another U. K. resident of Thomson Reuters PLC company would be taxable subject to a number of exemptions.
It has been indicated that the draft legislation has been released at The following is a summary of certain limited aspects of the U. K. taxation treatment of certain holders of Thomson Reuters an earlier stage than is normal and that the clauses that ultimately PLC ordinary shares.
This summary is based on current U. K. tax appear in the Finance Bill are likely to differ from the draft clauses law and the current published practice of HM Revenue and that have been published.
In the current published draft of the legislation there are a number of exemptions.
It is expected that Customs HMRC.
generally one of these exemptions may apply to exempt a U. K. This summary applies only to Thomson Reuters PLC shareholders resident corporate shareholder from tax on the receipt of any who hold their Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares as an dividend received from Thomson Reuters PLC in respect of the investment and who are the absolute beneficial owners of those ordinary shares.
This summary is a general guide only and does not deal with certain types of shareholders, such as intermediaries, brokers, Non-Residents persons holding or acquiring shares in the course of trade, persons Subject to certain exceptions for individuals who are who have or could be treated as having acquired their shares by Commonwealth citizens, residents of the Isle of Man or the Channel reason of their employment, persons who hold their shares under Islands, nationals of States which are part of the European an individual savings account, collective investment schemes Economic Area and certain others, the right of a shareholder who is and insurance companies.
not resident in the United Kingdom for tax purposes to a tax credit Thomson Reuters PLC shareholders who are in any doubt about on dividends received from Thomson Reuters PLC will depend upon the existence and terms of any double tax treaty between the U. K. their taxation position, or who are resident or otherwise subject to taxation in a jurisdiction outside the U. K. should consult their own and the country in which that person is resident.
Such shareholders tax advisors having regard to their particular circumstances.
should note, however, that in practice most shareholders will not be able to claim repayment in respect of tax credits or will be entitled to only a minimal repayment.
DIVIDENDS Under current U. K. tax law, Thomson Reuters PLC is not required Persons who are not solely resident in the United Kingdom should consult their own tax advisers concerning their tax liabilities to withhold tax at source from dividend payments it makes.
in the United Kingdom and any other country on dividends U. K. Resident Individuals received, whether they are entitled to claim any part of the tax An individual shareholder who is resident in the U. K. for tax credit and, if so, the procedure for doing so, and whether any double taxation relief is due in any country in which they are purposes and who receives a dividend from Thomson Reuters PLC subject to tax.
will be entitled to a tax credit which may be set off against the individuals total income tax liability on the dividend.
Such an individual shareholders liability to income tax is calculated on the ANNUAL REPORT 2008 131 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CAPITAL GAINS ON DISPOSITIONS executed and duly stamped, the SDRT liability will be cancelled and any SDRT which has been paid will be repaid.
SDRT is normally the U. K. Residents Including Persons Ordinarily Resident liability of the purchaser or transferee of the ordinary shares.
in the U. K. Where ordinary shares are transferred i to, or to a nominee for, A disposal of ordinary shares by a shareholder who is either a person whose business is or includes the provision of clearance resident or ordinarily resident in the U. K. for tax purposes may, services or ii to, or to a nominee or agent for, a person whose depending on the shareholders circumstances and subject to any business is or includes issuing depositary receipts, stamp duty or available exemptions and relief, give rise to a chargeable gain or SDRT may be payable at a rate of 1.5% of the amount or value an allowable loss for the purposes of the taxation of capital gains.
of the consideration payable or, in certain circumstances, the value Non-Residents of the ordinary shares.
Clearance service providers may opt, under certain circumstances, for the normal rates of stamp duty and Subject as follows, a disposal of ordinary shares by a shareholder SDRT to apply to a transfer of ordinary shares into, and to who is not U. K. resident or ordinarily resident in the U. K. for tax transactions within, the service instead of the higher rate applying purposes should not give rise to a chargeable gain or an allowable to an issue or transfer of the ordinary shares into the clearance loss for the purposes of the taxation of capital gains.
system and the exemption for dealings in the ordinary shares while in the system.
A disposal of ordinary shares by a shareholder who is not U. K. resident or ordinarily resident in the U. K. but who carries on a trade, Under the CREST system for paperless share transfers, deposits of profession or vocation in the U. K. through a permanent establishment, ordinary shares into CREST will generally not be subject to stamp branch or agency and has used, held or acquired the ordinary duty or SDRT unless such a transfer is made for a consideration in shares for the purposes of such trade, profession or vocation or money or moneys worth, in which case a liability to SDRT will such permanent establishment, branch or agency, may, depending arise usually at the rate of 0.5% of the amount of value of the on the shareholders circumstances and subject to any available consideration.
Paperless transfers of ordinary shares within CREST exemptions and relief, give rise to a chargeable gain or an are generally liable to SDRT, rather than stamp duty, at the rate of allowable loss for the purposes of the taxation of capital gains.
0.5% of the amount of value of the consideration.
CREST is obliged to collect SDRT from the purchaser of the ordinary shares A shareholder who is an individual and who has ceased to be on relevant transactions settled within the system.
resident or ordinarily resident in the U. K. for tax purposes for a period of less than five complete tax years and who disposes of A conveyance or transfer otherwise than on sale of the underlying ordinary shares during that period may also be liable on the ordinary shares represented by ADSs from the custodian of the individuals return to the U. K. to tax on any capital gain realised depositary or the depositary to an ADS holder upon cancellation subject to any available exemption or relief.
This rule also applies of the ADS will not be subject to ad valorem stamp duty or SDRT.
to individuals who have not ceased to be resident or ordinarily resident in the U. K. but who, on or after March 16, 2005, have Certain U. S. Income Tax Considerations for become non-U.
K. resident pursuant to the application of a double U. S. Shareholders of Thomson Reuters Corporation taxation treaty.
and Thomson Reuters PLC Persons who are not solely resident in the United Kingdom should The following discussion is a summary of the material U. S. federal consult their own tax advisers concerning their tax liabilities in the income tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of United Kingdom and any other country on any disposal of Thomson Reuters Corporation common shares or Thomson ordinary shares, and whether any double taxation relief is due in Reuters PLC ordinary shares or ADSs by a U. S. holder as dened any country in which they are subject to tax.
The summary only applies to a U. S. holder who holds such shares as capital assets and does not take into account the STAMP DUTY AND STAMP DUTY RESERVE TAX specic circumstances of any particular U. S. holder, some of which may be subject to special rules, such as dealers in securities, U. S. An instrument of transfer of an ADS is not subject to U. K. stamp holders who hold directly or indirectly 10% or more of the voting duty, provided that it is executed and retained outside the U. K. and does not relate to any matter or thing done, or to be done, in stock or U. S. holders who elected to apply the provisions of the the U. K. An agreement to transfer ADSs in the form of depositary former income tax convention between the United States and the United Kingdom.
The summary is based on the United States receipts will not give rise to a liability to stamp duty reserve Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its legislative history, tax SDRT.
existing and proposed regulations, published rulings and court Subject to an exemption for certain low value transactions, the decisions, as appropriate, all of which are subject to change at conveyance or transfer on sale of ordinary shares as opposed any time, possibly with retrospective effect.
to ADSs outside the CREST system will generally be subject to ad valorem stamp duty on the instrument of transfer at the rate of For the purposes of this discussion, a U. S. holder is any beneficial owner of common shares, ordinary shares or ADSs that is i a 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration given rounded citizen or resident for tax purposes of the U. S. ii a corporation up to the nearest 5.
Stamp duty is normally the liability of the purchaser or transferee of the ordinary shares.
An unconditional organized under the laws of the U. S. or any U. S. State, iii an agreement to transfer ordinary shares will normally give rise to estate the income of which is subject to U. S. federal income tax without regard to its source, or iv a trust if a court within the U. S. a charge to SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of the amount or value of the is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration consideration for the ordinary shares.
However, where within six years of the date of the agreement, an instrument of transfer is of the trust and one or more U. S. persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
132 THOMSON REUTERS There is little or no guidance as to the proper characterization CAPITAL GAINS ON DISPOSITIONS for U. S. federal income tax purposes of the DLC structure.
In Subject to the PFIC rules discussed below, for U. S. federal income the absence of any such guidance, Thomson Reuters intends to tax purposes a U. S. holder will recognize capital gain or loss upon treat the DLC structure for U. S. federal income tax purposes in the sale or other disposition of common shares, ordinary shares or accordance with its form and does not intend to re-characterize ADSs equal to the difference between the amount realized and the DLC structure as a joint venture between Thomson Reuters PLC such holders tax basis in the common shares, ordinary shares or shareholders and Thomson Reuters Corporation shareholders, ADSs.
Under current law, capital gain of a non-corporate U. S. holder or as between Thomson Reuters PLC and Thomson Reuters that is recognized in taxable years beginning before January 1, 2011 Corporation themselves, or otherwise.
generally is taxed at a maximum rate of 15% where the holder has a holding period greater than one year.
The gain or loss generally will DIVIDENDS be income or loss from sources within the U. S. for U. S. foreign tax The gross amount of any dividend paid by Thomson Reuters PLC credit purposes.
or Thomson Reuters Corporation to a U. S. holder generally will be U. S. PFIC Status subject to U. S. federal income taxation.
Such a dividend will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed If a foreign company is a PFIC, based on either an income test or to U. S. corporations with respect to dividends from other U. S. an asset test, then certain distributions and gains can be allocated corporations.
If a U. S. holder elects to receive dividends in pound rateably over a U. S. shareholders holding period, with the effect sterling or Canadian dollars, the amount of the dividend to be that the amount allocated to the current taxable year and any included in income will be the U. S. dollar value of the pound taxable year before the company became a PFIC would be taxable sterling or Canadian dollar payments made, as applicable, as ordinary income in the current year and the amount allocated to determined at the spot pound sterling U. S. dollar rate or the spot other taxable years would be taxed at the highest rate in effect for Canadian dollar U. S. dollar rate, as applicable, on the date of the that year on ordinary income.
The tax is also subject to an interest dividend distribution, regardless of whether the payment is in fact charge to recover the deemed benefit from the deferred payment of converted into U. S. dollars.
Upon any subsequent exchange of the tax attributable to each such year.
Each of Thomson Reuters such Canadian dollars or pounds sterling for U. S. dollars, a U. S. PLC and Thomson Reuters Corporation reasonably believes that it holder will recognize foreign currency gain or loss, which is treated is not and has not been a PFIC, and neither Thomson Reuters PLC as ordinary income or loss, equal to the difference, if any, between nor Thomson Reuters Corporation reasonably anticipates that it will the U. S. holders tax basis for the Canadian dollars or pounds become a PFIC.
However, the tests for determining PFIC status are sterling, as applicable, and the amount of U. S. dollars received.
applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of future income and assets, which are relevant to this determination.
Qualied Dividend Income In addition, the application of the PFIC rules to the DLC structure is uncertain and involves some risk that the IRS will consider An individual U. S. holders qualied dividend income is subject to tax at a reduced rate of 15% provided that the common shares, Thomson Reuters PLC to be a PFIC.
ordinary shares or ADSs, as applicable, are held for at least 61 Accordingly, neither Thomson Reuters PLC nor Thomson Reuters days of the 121 day period beginning on the date which is 60 days Corporation can assure U. S. holders that the IRS would agree that before the ex-dividend date and the holder meets other holding each of Thomson Reuters PLC and Thomson Reuters Corporation period requirements.
It is not entirely clear whether U. S. holders is not and has not been a PFIC.
Nor can either of Thomson Reuters of Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares would be able to qualify PLC and Thomson Reuters Corporation assure U. S. holders that for the reduced rate.
A dividend distribution to a U. S. holder of it will not become a PFIC.
A U. S. holder is urged to consult its own Thomson Reuters PLCs ADSs or Thomson Reuters Corporations tax advisor about the PFIC rules, including the consequences to common shares should qualify for the reduced rate, assuming such holder of making a mark-to-market election with respect to Thomson Reuters PLC or Thomson Reuters Corporation, as Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares and ADSs, or with respect applicable, is not a passive foreign investment company PFIC.
to Thomson Reuters Corporation common shares, in the event In any case, dividend distributions with respect to Thomson that Thomson Reuters PLC or Thomson Reuters Corporation, as Reuters PLC or Thomson Reuters Corporation will not qualify for applicable, qualies as a PFIC.
the reduced rate if Thomson Reuters PLC or Thomson Reuters Corporation, as applicable, is treated for the tax year in which U. S. Information Reporting and Backup Withholding dividends are paid or for the prior year, as a PFIC for U. S. federal A U. S. holder is generally subject to information reporting income tax purposes.
As discussed below, neither Thomson requirements with respect to dividends paid in the U. S. on Reuters PLC nor Thomson Reuters Corporation believes it is or has common shares, ordinary shares or ADSs and disposal proceeds been a PFIC.
Accordingly, Thomson Reuters PLC and Thomson realized from the sale, exchange, redemption or other disposal of Reuters Corporation believe that dividends paid with respect common shares, ordinary shares or ADSs.
In addition, a U. S. holder to the common shares, ADSs, and possibly with respect to the is subject to backup withholding currently at a rate of 28% on ordinary shares, will be qualied dividend income and, subject to dividends paid in the U. S. on common shares, ordinary shares or the U. S. holders satisfaction of the holding period requirements ADSs and disposal proceeds realized from the sale, exchange, described above, should be eligible for the reduced 15% U. S. redemption or other disposal of common shares, ordinary shares federal income tax rate.
Dividends paid by Thomson Reuters PLC or ADSs unless the U. S. holder is a corporation, provides an IRS or Thomson Reuters Corporation generally will be foreign source Form W-9 or otherwise establishes a basis for exemption.
Backup passive income for U. S. foreign tax credit purposes.
withholding is not an additional tax.
The amount of any backup withholding will be allowed as a credit against a U. S. holders U. S. federal income tax liability and may be refunded, provided that certain information is furnished to the IRS.
