SENIOR MANAGEMENT Tom Glocer Robert D. Daleo Chief Executive officer Executive Vice President and Chief Financial officer Tom Glocer is Chief Executive officer of Thomson Reuters.
Prior Bob Daleo is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial officer to April 2008, Mr. Glocer was CEO of Reuters.
He joined Reuters of Thomson Reuters.
Prior to April 2008, Mr. Daleo was Chief in 1993, holding a number of key leadership positions within the Financial officer of Thomson.
Mr. Daleo joined Thomson in organization prior to becoming CEO in 2001.
He joined the board 1994 and held a number of key leadership positions within the of Reuters in 2000. organization before becoming CFO in 1998.
Mr. Daleo was a director of Thomson from 2001 to 2008.
Stephen G. Dando Deirdre Stanley Executive Vice President and Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources officer General Counsel Stephen Dando is Executive Vice President and Chief Human Deirdre Stanley is Executive Vice President and General Resources officer of Thomson Reuters.
Prior to April 2008, he had Counsel of Thomson Reuters.
Prior to April 2008, Ms. Stanley been Group Human Resources Director for Reuters since 2006. had been Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Thomson since 2002.
22 THOMSON REUTERS James C. Smith Devin N. Wenig Chief Executive officer, Chief Executive officer, Professional Division Markets Division Jim Smith is Chief Executive officer of Thomson Reuters Devin Wenig is Chief Executive officer of Thomson Reuters Professional division.
Prior to April 2008, Mr. Smith was Executive Markets division.
Prior to April 2008, Mr. Wenig was Chief Vice President and Chief Operating officer of Thomson.
Mr. Smith Operating officer of Reuters.
Mr. Wenig joined Reuters in 1993 joined Thomson in 1987 and has held a number of key leadership and has held a number of senior management positions in positions within the organization.
Gus Carlson James Powell Executive Vice President and Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing & Chief Technology officer Communications officer Gus Carlson is Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing & James Powell is Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Communications officer of Thomson Reuters.
Prior to April 2008, officer of Thomson Reuters, a position that he has held since he had been Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing & July 2008.
Previously, he was CTO of Thomson Reuters Markets Communications officer for Thomson since 2006. division.
In his 15 years with Reuters, Mr. Powell held a number of senior leadership positions including CTO of its Enterprise division and Global Head of Product Development.
Information regarding the compensation of our senior executive ofcers is provided in our 2009 management information circular, which has been prepared in connection with our upcoming annual general meeting of shareholders to be held on May 13, 2009.
