SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND DIRECTORS The following individuals are our executive ofcers: Jim Smith is Chief Executive officer of Thomson Reuters Professional division.
Prior to April 2008, Mr. Smith was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating officer of Thomson.
Mr. Smith Name Age Title joined Thomson in 1987 and held a number of key leadership Thomas H. Glocer 49 Chief Executive officer positions within the organization, including President and Chief Robert D. Daleo 59 Executive Vice President Executive officer of Thomson Learnings Academic & Reference and Chief Financial officer Group and Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Administration of Thomson.
Mr. Smith resides in Stamford, James C. Smith 49 Chief Executive officer, Connecticut, United States.
Professional Division Devin Wenig is Chief Executive officer of Thomson Reuters Devin N. Wenig 42 Chief Executive officer, Markets division.
Prior to April 2008, Mr. Wenig was Chief Markets Division Operating officer of Reuters.
Mr. Wenig joined Reuters in 1993 Stephen G. Dando 47 Executive Vice President and held a number of senior management positions including and Chief Human President, Investment Banking & Brokerage Services and Resources officer President, Business Divisions.
Mr. Wenig was a director of Reuters Deirdre Stanley 44 Executive Vice President from 2003 to 2008.
Mr. Wenig resides in New York, New York, and General Counsel United States.
Gus Carlson 50 Executive Vice President, Deirdre Stanley is Executive Vice President and General Counsel Chief Marketing & of Thomson Reuters.
Prior to April 2008, Ms. Stanley had been Communications officer Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Thomson since James Powell 47 Executive Vice President 2002.
Prior to joining Thomson in 2002, Ms. Stanley served in and Chief Technology various senior executive positions, including Deputy General officer Counsel at USA Networks, Inc. and its successor companies.
From 1995 through 1997, Ms. Stanley served as Associate General Counsel for GTE Corporation, where she headed the mergers and Tom Glocer is Chief Executive officer of Thomson Reuters.
Ms. Stanley resides in New York, to April 2008, Mr. Glocer was CEO of Reuters.
He joined Reuters New York, United States.
in 1993, holding a number of key leadership positions within the organization prior to becoming CEO in 2001.
Mr. Glocer practiced Gus Carlson is Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing law at Davis, Polk & Wardwell in New York, Paris and Tokyo from & Communications officer of Thomson Reuters.
He joined the board of Reuters in 2000.
He is also 2008, he had been Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing & a director of Merck & Co. Inc. and serves on several academic Communications officer for Thomson since 2006.
Before joining not-for-profit organizations and advisory councils including the Thomson in 2006, Mr. Carlson held senior communications Council on Foreign Relations and the International Business positions at Accenture, Standard & Poors, PaineWebber, Barnes & Council of the World Economic Forum.
Mr. Glocer resides in Noble and Hill & Knowlton.
Mr. Carlson is also a former business New York, New York, United States.
news editor for The New York Times and The Miami Herald.
Mr. Carlson resides in Bedford, New York, United States.
Bob Daleo is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial officer of Thomson Reuters.
Prior to April 2008, Mr. Daleo was Chief James Powell is Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Financial officer of Thomson.
Mr. Daleo joined Thomson in 1994 officer of Thomson Reuters, a position that he has held since and held a number of key leadership positions within the organization July 2008.
Previously, he was CTO of Thomson Reuters Markets before becoming CFO in 1998.
Mr. Daleo was a director of Thomson division.
In his 15 years with Reuters, Mr. Powell held a number from 2001 to 2008.
Mr. Daleo is currently a director of Equifax Inc. of senior leadership positions including CTO of its Enterprise and serves on the board of trustees for the New Jersey Community division and Global Head of Product Development.
He has also Development Corporation.
Mr. Daleo resides in Alpine, New Jersey, held senior leadership positions at Solace Systems, Citadel United States.
Investment Group and TIBCO Finance Technology.
Mr. Powell resides in Bronxville, New York, United States.
Stephen Dando is Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources officer of Thomson Reuters.
Prior to April 2008, he had Information regarding the compensation of our senior executive been Group Human Resources Director for Reuters since 2006. ofcers is provided in our management information circular dated Prior to joining Reuters in 2006, Mr. Dando was Director, BBC March 26, 2009, which has been prepared in connection with our People and a member of the BBCs Executive Committee and upcoming annual general meeting of shareholders to be held on Executive Board for five years.
Mr. Dando also held various May 13, 2009.
This information forms a part of this annual report appointments at Diageo over a 12-year period, including Global for purposes of U. K. legal and regulatory reporting requirements.
Mr. Dando resides in London, United Kingdom.
110 THOMSON REUTERS The names, municipalities and countries of residence, ofces and Reuters, except where noted below.
Each director will continue principal occupations of our directors are shown below.
Each to hold ofce until the next annual meeting of shareholders of director has been a director since the year indicated below.
All of Thomson Reuters or until the director resigns or a successor is our directors have been engaged for more than five years in their elected or appointed.
present principal occupations or in other capacities within Thomson Committee memberships Corporate Human Director Name Age Audit Governance Resources since David Thomson, Chairman 51 1988 W. Geoffrey Beattie, Deputy Chairman 49 1998 Niall FitzGerald, KBE, Deputy Chairman 63 Chair2008 Thomas H. Glocer 49 2008 Manvinder S. Banga 542009 Mary Cirillo 61 2005 Steven A. Denning 60 Chair 2000 Lawton Fitt 552008 Roger L. Martin 521999 Sir Deryck Maughan 612008 Ken Olisa 572008 Vance K. Opperman 66 Chair 1996 John M. Thompson 66 2003 Peter J. Thomson 43 1995 John A. Tory 791978 David Thomson is Chairman of Thomson Reuters.
He is also a Tom Glocer is Chief Executive officer of Thomson Reuters.
Prior Chairman of Woodbridge, the Thomson family investment company.
to April 2008, Mr. Glocer was CEO of Reuters.
He joined Reuters Mr. Thomson is an active private investor with a focus on real in 1993, holding a number of key leadership positions within the estate and serves on the boards of several private companies.
organization prior to becoming CEO in 2001.
He joined the board Mr. Thomson has a MA from Cambridge University.
Mr. Glocer practiced law at Davis, Polk & resides in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Wardwell in New York, Paris and Tokyo from 1984 to 1993.
Mr. Glocer serves on several academic not-for-profit organizations and W. Geoffrey Beattie is a Deputy Chairman of Thomson Reuters.
advisory councils including the Council on Foreign Relations and He is President and a director of Woodbridge, the Thomson family the International Business Council of the World Economic Forum.
In addition to his public company board He has a bachelors degree from Columbia University and a law memberships, Mr. Beattie is Chairman of CTV Globemedia, a degree from Yale University.
Mr. Glocer resides in New York, Canadian broadcasting and publishing company, and a trustee of New York, United States.
Mr. Beattie has a law degree from the University of Western Ontario.
Mr. Beattie resides in Toronto, Manvinder Banga was appointed to the Thomson Reuters board Ontario, Canada.
He is President, Foods, Home & Personal Care of Unilever PLC.
Previously, he was Business Group Niall FitzGerald, KBE, is a Deputy Chairman of Thomson Reuters.
President for Unilevers Home and Personal Care business in Asia He joined the Reuters board in 2003 and became Chairman in and Chairman and Managing Director of Hindustan Unilever Ltd. 2004, a position he held until April 2008 when Reuters was Mr. Banga is a member of the Prime Minister of Indias Council acquired.
Mr. FitzGerald was Chairman and CEO of Unilever PLC, on Trade & Industry as well as several other academic boards.
a consumer goods company, from 1996 until his retirement in He has a Bachelor of Technology in Mechanical Engineering from October 2004.
Mr. FitzGerald chairs the British Museum Board of the Indian Institute of Technology IIT, Delhi and a post graduate Trustees, Investment Climate Facility for Africa and Hakluyt & Co. degree in Management from the IIM Ahmedabad.
Mr. Banga Ltd. and is a member of the World Economic Forum Foundation resides in London, United Kingdom.
He serves a number of other not-for-profit organizations and is on various advisory bodies.
He has a Commerce degree from University College in Dublin and holds a number of honorary doctorates from U. S. British and Irish universities.
Mr. FitzGerald resides in London, United Kingdom.
