Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares were valued at approximately NOTE 3: ACQUISITION OF REUTERS $8.2 billion, or $42.38 per share using the average share price two GROUP PLC days before and after May 15, 2007, the date of the announcement Overview of the acquisition.
The par value of Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares was changed from 10 to 25 pence shortly after the On April 17, 2008, Thomson acquired Reuters by implementing acquisition closed.
a DLC structure as described in note 1 resulting in two parent companies, Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters Subject to certain exceptions, the 33,670,064 options and awards PLC, operating the business of Thomson Reuters.
outstanding under Reuters share-based employee compensation plans vested and became fully exercisable prior to the close of the The two parent companies have identical boards and executive acquisition.
Upon exercise, holders were entitled to the same management teams: consideration for each share of Reuters that would have been Shareholders of each parent company have comparable rights received.
The fair value of the outstanding options, determined using the Black-Scholes pricing model, was $195 million and was and benets as if they held shares in one company carrying on included in the purchase consideration.
Unexercised options the Thomson Reuters business: and expired during the fourth quarter of 2008.
The operations of Reuters were combined with the former Based on the issued shared capital of Thomson Reuters Corporation Thomson Financial segment to create a global leader in and of Thomson Reuters PLC as of April 17, 2008, The Woodbridge electronic information services, trading systems and news.
Company Limited and other companies afliated with it Woodbridge had a voting interest in Thomson Reuters of Required Divestitures approximately 53%.
Woodbridge is the principal and controlling shareholder of Thomson Reuters and had a 55% voting interest In order to obtain antitrust clearance for the transaction, in 2008 in Thomson Reuters as of December 31, 2008.
Thomson Reuters sold a copy of the Thomson Fundamentals Worldscope, Reuters Estimates, Reuters Aftermarket Research Purchase Price Allocation and Reuters Economics EcoWin databases.
These sales included copies of the databases, source data and training materials, as The acquisition has been accounted for using the purchase method well as certain contracts and selected employees connected to the and the results of Reuters have been included in the consolidated databases.
The required sales did not have any material adverse statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2008, effect on the Companys revenues or profitability and are not beginning on April 17, 2008, the closing date of the acquisition.
expected to have any material impact on the synergies anticipated The purchase consideration was as follows: to be generated by the transaction.
millions of U. S. dollars Consideration Cash 8,450 Reuters was indirectly acquired by Thomson Reuters PLC.
Under Ordinary shares, Thomson Reuters PLC 8,226 the terms of the acquisition: Reuters Group PLC options 195 All of the issued and outstanding Reuters ordinary shares wereTransaction costs 138 cancelled: and Total purchase consideration 17,009 Reuters shareholders received, for each Reuters ordinary share held For its interim 2008 reporting, the Company preliminarily 352.5 pence in cash a total of $8,450 million paid on May 1, allocated the total purchase consideration to acquired net 2008 : and tangible and identiable intangible assets based on their estimated fair values as of April 17, 2008.
During the fourth 0.16 Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares a total of quarter of 2008, the Company adjusted its purchase price 194,107,278 issued on closing, April 17, 2008. allocation to reect the final valuation of the fair values of net Thomson Reuters funded the cash consideration component of tangible and identiable assets as of April 17, 2008.
The excess the transaction using proceeds from the sale of its Thomson of the purchase price over the net tangible and identiable Learning businesses as well as borrowings under an acquisition intangible assets was recorded as goodwill and will not be credit facility.
See note 16 for further discussion on  for tax purposes.
