The following are descriptions of fees payable to PricewaterhouseIf the Chair approves any such engagements, he must report his Coopers LLP in 2008 and 2007. approval decisions to the full Audit Committee at its next meeting.
For the year ended December 31, 2008, none of the audit-related, AUDIT FEES tax or all other fees of Thomson Reuters described above made use of the fide minimis exception to pre-approval provisions These audit fees were for professional services rendered for the contained in Rule 2-01 c 7 i C of SEC Regulation S-X and audits of consolidated financial statements, reviews of interim Section 2.4 of the Canadian Securities Administrators Multilateral financial statements included in periodic reports, audits related Instrument 52-110 Audit Committees.
to internal control over financial reporting, and services that generally only the independent auditors can reasonably provide, Controlled Company such as comfort letters, statutory audits, consents, and assistance and review of documents led with securities regulatory The NYSE and Nasdaq corporate governance listing standards authorities.
require a listed company to have, among other things, solely independent directors on its compensation committee and AUDIT-RELATED FEES nominating corporate governance committee.
A controlled company a company of which more than 50% of the voting These audit-related fees were for assurance and related services power is held by an individual, group or another company is that are reasonably related to the performance of the audit or exempt from these requirements.
The board believes it is review of the financial statements and are not reported under the appropriate for directors afliated with Woodbridge to serve on audit fees category above.
These services included advisory the Corporate Governance Committee and the HR Committee services related to internal control over financial reporting, audits and has approved our reliance on the controlled company of various employee benefit plans, transaction due diligence, exemption to do so.
subsidiary audits and other services related to acquisitions and dispositions.
Independent Directors TAX FEES Under the corporate governance guidelines adopted by the board, a director is not considered independent unless the board Tax fees were for tax compliance, tax advice and tax planning.
afrmatively determines that the director has no material These services included the preparation and review of corporate relationship with Thomson Reuters.
In determining the and expatriate tax returns, assistance with tax audits and transfer independence of directors, the board considers all relevant facts pricing matters, advisory services relating to federal, state, and circumstances.
In March 2009, the board conducted its provincial and international tax compliance, customs and duties, annual assessment of the independence of each of its members and restructurings, mergers and acquisitions.
2 and determined that 10 of the 15 directors 66 3% serving on the board are independent.
In determining independence, ALL OTHER FEES we examined and relied on the applicable denitions of Fees disclosed in the tables above under the item all other fees independent in the NYSE listing standards, Nasdaq listing were for services other than the audit fees, audit-related fees standards, Canadian Securities Administrators National and tax fees described above.
These services included: Instrument 58-101 and the U. K. Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The board also reviewed the results of questionnaires authoring content for inclusion in certain products and completed by each director.
services: and One of the directors Thomas H. Glocer is not independent French translations of our financial statements, MD&A and because he is the CEO of Thomson Reuters.
financial information included in our prospectuses and other offering documents.
Four of the directors David Thomson, W. Geoffrey Beattie, Peter J. Thomson and John A. Tory are considered to not be PRE-APPROVAL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES independent pursuant to applicable rules because they are directors and current or former executive ofcers of Woodbridge, The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the work of the controlling shareholder of Thomson Reuters.
None of the independent auditors and considers whether the provision of these individuals is a member of Thomson Reuters executive services other than audit services is compatible with maintaining management team.
With its substantial equity investment in the auditors independence.
The Audit Committee has adopted Thomson Reuters, Woodbridge considers that its interests as a a policy regarding its pre-approval of all audit and permissible shareholder are aligned with those of all other shareholders.
non-audit services provided by the independent auditors.
The policy gives detailed guidance to management as to the specic The remaining 10 directors are independent.
types of services that have been pre-approved by the Audit In determining the independence of directors, the board also Committee.
The policy requires the Audit Committees specic considers that in the normal course of business, we provide pre-approval of all other permitted types of services that have services to, and receive services from, companies with which some not already been pre-approved.
Senior management periodically of the independent directors are afliated.
For example, various provides the Audit Committee with a summary of services provided in-house legal departments of a number of these companies by the independent auditors in accordance with the pre-approval subscribe to our Westlaw service.
Based on the specic facts and policy.
The Audit Committees charter delegates to its Chair the circumstances, the board determined in March 2009 that these authority to evaluate and approve engagements in the event that types of relationships were immaterial.
the need arises for approval between Audit Committee meetings.
