MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS As we execute our integration and synergy program across Public Securities Filings and Regulatory our organization over the next three years, we anticipate that Announcements additional business information systems will be consolidated and You may access other information about Thomson Reuters, related workow processes will be migrated as legacy shared including our annual report which contains information required service center environments mature into a single global business in an annual information form and our other disclosure services organization.
Except as described above, there was no documents, reports, statements or other information that we change in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred le with the Canadian securities regulatory authorities through during 2008 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to SEDAR at www.
com and in the United States with the SEC materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Information that we announce Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining in the United Kingdom through RNS, a Regulatory Information adequate internal control over financial reporting to provide Service including this managements discussion and analysis reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and our financial statements is available on our website, and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in www.
com, as well as on SEDAR and EDGAR.
accordance with Canadian GAAP with accompanying reconciliation to U. S. generally accepted accounting principles.
Our management CAUTIONARY NOTE CONCERNING FACTORS assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS reporting as of December 31, 2008, and based on that assessment determined that our internal control over financial reporting This managements discussion and analysis, in particular the section was effective.
See our financial statements for the year ended entitled Outlook and our discussion of outlooks for each division December 31, 2008 for our managements report on internal and reportable segment in the Results of Operations section, control over financial reporting.
include forward-looking statements that are based on certain assumptions and reect our current expectations.
Forward-looking Share Capital statements are those that are not historical facts and also include our expectations about future prospects.
Forward-looking As of March 20, 2009, we had outstanding 646,931,627 common statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that shares of Thomson Reuters Corporation, 181,229,241 ordinary shares could cause actual results or events to differ materially from current of Thomson Reuters PLC, 6,000,000 Series II preference shares, expectations.
Some of the factors that could cause actual results 17,017,864 stock options and a total of 7,350,824 restricted share to differ materially from current expectations are discussed in the units and performance restricted share units.
Risk Factors section of this annual report.
Additional factors A Reuters Founders Share has also been issued by each of are discussed in our materials led with the securities regulatory Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC which authorities from time to time.
All information that is not historical enables Reuters Founders Share Company to exercise extraordinary in nature disclosed in this managements discussion and analysis voting power to safeguard the Reuters Trust Principles.
Thomson is deemed to be a forward-looking statement.
We disclaim any Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC have also each intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking issued a special voting share to a special voting trust so that statements, whether as a result of new information, future events shareholders of the two companies can ordinarily vote together or otherwise, other than as required by law, rule or regulation.
Thomson Reuters Corporation has issued an equalization share to Thomson Reuters PLC in connection with Thomson Reuters Corporations support obligations under the DLC structure.
