the value of the consideration paid for any shares is not in excess approval of at least two-thirds of the votes cast at a meeting of the market value thereof at the date of the acquisition.
of the holders of preference shares.
The holders of preference shares are not entitled to any voting rights except as provided by our board of directors when authorizing a series or as provided by law.
DESCRIPTION OF CAPITAL STRUCTURE Our Series II preference shares are non-voting and are As of March 26, 2009, our authorized share capital was as follows: redeemable at our option for C$25.00 per share, together with accrued dividends.
Dividends are payable quarterly at an annual Thomson Reuters Corporations authorized share capital rate of 70% of the Canadian bank prime rate applied to the consisted of an unlimited number of common shares, an stated capital of the shares.
unlimited number of preference shares, issuable in series, a Reuters Founders Share, a special voting share and an equalization share.
Thomson Reuters PLC Thomson Reuters PLCs authorized share capital consistedORDINARY SHARES of 2,031,700,000 ordinary shares, a Reuters Founders Share Each ordinary share entitles its holder to receive notice of and to and a special voting share.
attend all meetings of Thomson Reuters PLC shareholders except As of March 26, 2009, we had outstanding 647,102,492 common for meetings of holders of a particular class or series of shares shares and 6,000,000 Series II preference shares of Thomson other than the ordinary shares required by applicable laws to be Reuters Corporation and 181,229,241 ordinary shares of Thomson held as a separate class or series meeting and to vote, together Reuters PLC.
We also had outstanding the Reuters Founders with the holder of the Thomson Reuters PLC special voting share, Shares and special voting shares of Thomson Reuters Corporation except at meetings of holders of ordinary shares required by and Thomson Reuters PLC and the equalization share of Thomson applicable laws to be held as a separate class.
Each ordinary share Reuters Corporation.
The special voting shares and equalization also entitles its holder to receive dividends when declared by our share are described above under Dual Listed Company Structure board of directors.
All dividends declared by our board of directors and the Reuters Founders Shares are described under Material are paid equally on all ordinary shares.
Holders of ordinary shares Contracts.
will participate equally in any distribution of Thomson Reuters PLCs assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up.
There Thomson Reuters Corporation are no redemption, purchase or conversion rights attaching to Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares.
COMMON SHARES ADSs Each common share entitles its holder to receive notice of and to attend all meetings of Thomson Reuters Corporation Each ADS represents six ordinary shares.
For a summary description shareholders except for meetings of holders of a particular class of our ADSs, please see Exhibit 99.12 of Thomson Reuters PLCs or series of shares other than the common shares required by annual report for the year ended December 31, 2007 led with the applicable laws to be held as a separate class or series meeting SEC on Form 20-F and the Canadian securities regulatory authorities and to vote, together with the holder of the Thomson Reuters on April 17, 2008.
Corporation special voting share, except at meetings of holders of common shares required by applicable laws to be held as a separate class.
Each common share also entitles its holder to EXCHANGE CONTROLS receive dividends when declared by our board of directors, subject Thomson Reuters Corporation to the rights of holders of the preference shares.
All dividends declared by our board of directors are paid equally on all common There is no law or governmental decree or regulation in Canada shares.
Holders of common shares will participate equally in that restricts the export or import of capital, or affects the any distribution of Thomson Reuters Corporations assets upon remittance of dividends, interest or other payments to nonliquidation, dissolution or winding-up, subject to the rights of resident holders of common shares, other than withholding tax the holders of the preference shares.
There are no preemptive, requirements.
redemption, purchase or conversion rights attaching to Thomson There is no limitation imposed by Canadian law or by our articles Reuters Corporation common shares.
of incorporation or other charter documents on the right of a non-resident to hold or vote our common shares, other than PREFERENCE SHARES as provided by the Investment Canada Act, which requires Our preference shares may be issued in one or more series notication and, in certain cases, advance review and approval by as determined by our board of directors.
Our board of directors the Government of Canada of the acquisition by a non-Canadian is authorized to x the number, the consideration per share and of control of a Canadian business.
the rights and restrictions of the preference shares of each series.
The preference shares of each series are to rank on a parity with Thomson Reuters PLC the preference shares of each other series with respect to the Under English law and the Thomson Reuters PLC Articles of payments of dividends and the return of capital on Thomson Association, persons who are neither residents nor nationals of the Reuters Corporations liquidation, dissolution or winding-up.
U. K. may freely hold, vote and transfer their ordinary shares in the The preference shares are entitled to preference over the common same manner as U. K. residents or nationals.
There are currently shares and any other shares ranking junior to the preference no U. K. foreign exchange control restrictions on remittances of shares with respect to the payment of dividends and the return dividends to non-U.
K. resident holders of ordinary shares or on of capital.
The special rights and restrictions attaching to the the conduct of Thomson Reuters PLCs operations.
preference shares as a class may not be amended without ANNUAL REPORT 2008 119
