TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS If one set out to design the ideal information company for the 21st century from scratch, we think it would look like Thomson Reuters.
Must-have content and software delivered electronically by a trusted source to demanding professionals around the world.
With ofces in 300 cities, operations in 140 countries and customers in every commercial center, Thomson Reuters is in tune with a world which is professionalizing.
United by a powerful and consistent business model, our businesses have the ability to achieve long-term sustainable growth at attractive margins while generating large, dependable free cash ows to reinvest for growth and provide returns to shareholders.
Although some may think of Thomson Reuters as a new company, ONE COMPANY our move to the leading position in the industry lies on an arc of In April 2008, The Thomson Corporation acquired Reuters Group strategic intent that has been decades in the making... the result PLC and created the largest professional information company of foresight, diligent acquisition and expansion, careful growth in the world.
The t and complementarity between the two and a patient capital strategy.
businesses, cultures and staffs were tailor-made, and we were Thomsons acquisition of Reuters, like the acquisition of West able to start leveraging our scale almost immediately for a dozen years earlier, was an important step along a strategic example, by incorporating Reuters News into products from our continuum.
It combined Thomsons leading positions in Legal and Science units.
What was new was the Thomson Reuters legal, finance, tax, accounting, healthcare and science in North brand, which was soon ranked 44th among BusinessWeeks America with Reuters strength in financial services and media 100 Best Global Brands.
in Europe, the Middle East and Asia to produce a company that is strong and balanced, both by geography and market.
ANNUAL REVIEW 2008 1 Thomson Reuters global footprint is a critical element of our While our business model is unied, our portfolio is diverse.
It helps us appeal to and meet the needs of an Even in a recession as deep and widespread as the one we are increasingly global class of customers, and positions us to tap into experiencing today, there are parts of our business, such as the higher growth rates available in emerging and professionalizing Healthcare and Tax & Accounting, which can continue to grow at markets.
To each market we bring in-depth understanding of our attractive rates while we invest for an eventual recovery in financial customers needs, agile technology platforms, proprietary content services.
Similarly, our Asian businesses continued to grow in and scale.
the second half of 2008 as markets in the U. S. and U. K. began to falter.
Our customers are professionals in key sectors of the global economy.
We supply them with the intelligent information they Woodbridge, as our principal shareholder, provides Thomson need to succeed in elds that are vital to developed and emerging Reuters with another, very real competitive advantage.
investment company of the Thomson family for many years, Woodbridge is committed to building sustainable value for all Our customers rely on our information because we hold it to the shareholders.
With billions of dollars invested in Thomson same standards of accuracy, objectivity and independence that Reuters, it is highly focused on core issues such as strategic have long been exemplied by Reuters News coverage.
These direction, capital strategy, performance metrics and governance, standards are codified in the Reuters Trust Principles, which we and it brings to these issues a stable, long-term view that is have adopted across the company.
completely aligned with the type of shareholder Thomson Reuters The intelligent information we provide to these professionals is seeks to attract and retain.
It is central to their ability to do their jobs, and a source of competitive advantage.
Intelligent STRONG PERFORMANCE information is a synthesis of highly relevant content and software which derives its competitive value from human intelligence, We were very pleased with the performance of Thomson Reuters industry expertise and innovative technology.
Despite the most challenging economic environment add value to their own enterprises by enabling them to make in decades, the company grew revenues 8% at the top of the better decisions faster.
68% growth range that we had forecast in calmer markets when We serve a wide variety of customers with a single, tested business we completed the Reuters acquisition.
It is the same business model in our Markets division as strongly to this growth, with the Professional division growing in our Professional division, and the same in Asia as in North revenues 8% and the Markets division up 7%.
Its power comes from its basis in the sale of electronic reected global balance as well, with 58% coming from the content and services to professionals, primarily on a subscription Americas: 32% from Europe, the Middle East and Africa: and basis.
Over the years it has proven to be capital-efficient and 10% from Asia.
cash-ow generative, and it has enabled us to maintain leading Good ow-through from topline growth, enhanced by integrationand scalable positions in our chosen markets.
related savings, led to a 19% increase in underlying operating profit for the year.
And the strength of our business model was certainly in evidence as we delivered $2.3 billion in underlying free cash ow.
2 THOMSON REUTERS We made excellent progress on integrating Reuters and Thomson We are also indebted to our customers, for their loyalty to our Financial as our new Markets division, improving service to our products and their patience with our progress, for being both the customers and continuing positive net sales.
In executing our reason for our performance and the standard to which we must integration plan we also found new opportunities for savings, continuously rise.
raising our target from $750 million to $1 billion in annualized When the acquisition closed last April, six directors from Reuters cost savings by the end of 2011. joined our board.
We are grateful both to those members of the We have now begun the second phase of the acquisition Thomson and Reuters boards who took the opportunity of a integration: retiring legacy products and systems to simplify the mission accomplished to retire and to the current members of business and help make it more agile, responsive and profitable.
our board for their guidance and vigilance through this This year we are starting to roll out new strategic products, extraordinary period.
consolidate data centers and capture revenue synergies.
In closing, we would like to invite all our stakeholders to visit We continuously review and adjust our organizational structure www.
com and view the online version of to better leverage resources and align our operations with global this document.
At the beginning of the year we combined our Sincerely, five former operating units in the Professional division into three global businesses: Legal, Tax & Accounting, and Healthcare and Science.
We also created a new unit within Legal to pursue an attractive global opportunity in information and services for professionals who create, manage and transact in all forms of intellectual property.
While we anticipate that market conditions will remain very challenging in 2009, we are confident that our strong balance sheet, proven business model and well balanced portfolio will continue to perform through the current economic cycle.
WITH GRATITUDE A year like the one we experienced in 2008 our first as Thomson Reuters requires the grit and grace of many.
We owe gratitude DAVID THOMSON TOM GLOCER to our more than 50,000 employees around the world, from our Chairman of the Board Chief Executive officer innovative product development teams to our energetic sales force to the courageous journalists who bring the great stories of our time to Thomson Reuters customers.
Many of our employees have been working two jobs their own and the task of becoming one company in one year.
That they have succeeded is a testament to their extraordinary commitment and ability.
