THOMSON REUTERS CORPORATION NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Unless otherwise stated, all amounts are in millions of U. S. dollars Revenue Recognition NOTE 1: SUMMARY OF BUSINESS AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Revenues are recognized, net of estimated returns, when the following four criteria are met: General Business Description persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists: Thomson Reuters operates under a dual listed company DLC structure and has two parent companies, Thomson Reuters delivery has occurred: Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC collectively, Thomson Reuters.
Thomson Reuters Corporation also referred to as thethe fee is xed or determinable: and Company is an Ontario, Canada corporation, and Thomson collectability is probable.
Reuters PLC is a public limited company registered in England Delivery does not occur until products have been shipped or and Wales.
These companies operate as a unied group pursuant to contractual arrangements as well as provisions in their services have been provided to the customer, risk of loss has organizational documents.
Under the DLC structure, shareholders transferred to the customer, customer acceptance has been of Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC both obtained or such acceptance provisions have lapsed, or the Company has objective evidence that the criteria specified in have a stake in Thomson Reuters, with cash dividend, capital distribution and voting rights that are comparable to the rights the client acceptance provisions have been satisfied.
The sales they would have if they were holding shares in one company price is not considered to be xed or determinable until all carrying on the Thomson Reuters business.
Thomson Reuters contingencies related to the sale have been resolved.
Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC are separate publicly listed Revenue from sales of third party vendor products or services companies.
Thomson Reuters Corporation common shares are is recorded net of costs when the Company is acting as an agent listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange TSX and the New York between the customer and vendor and recorded gross when the Stock Exchange NYSE and its Series II preference shares are Company is a principal to the transaction.
Several factors are listed on the TSX.
Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares are considered to determine whether the Company is an agent or admitted to the ofcial list of the UK Listing Authority and to principal, most notably whether the Company is the primary trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed obligor to the customer, has inventory risk or adds meaningful securities.
Thomson Reuters PLC American Depositary Shares value to the vendors product or service.
Consideration is also ADSs, each of which represents six ordinary shares, are listed given to whether the Company was involved in the selection of on the Nasdaq Global Select Market.
The boards of the two the vendors product or service, has latitude in establishing companies are comprised of the same individuals, as are the the sales price, or has credit risk.
In addition to the above general principles, the Company applies the following specic revenue recognition policies: Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements of Thomson Reuters SUBSCRIPTION-BASED PRODUCTS EXCLUDING SOFTWARE Corporation include the accounts of both Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC, and their respective Revenues from sales of subscription-based products are subsidiaries, and are prepared in accordance with accounting primarily recognized ratably over the term of the subscription.
principles generally accepted in Canada Canadian GAAP.
Where applicable, usage fees above a base period fee are The results of Reuters are included in the accounts of Thomson recognized as earned.
Subscription revenue received or receivable Reuters from April 17, 2008. in advance of the delivery of services or publications is included in deferred revenue.
Incremental costs that are directly related to Accounting Estimates the subscription revenue are deferred and amortized over the subscription period.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Canadian GAAP requires management to make estimates and MULTIPLE ELEMENT ARRANGEMENTS assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the When a sales arrangement requires the delivery of more than date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of one product or service that have value on a stand-alone basis, the revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results individual deliverables are accounted for separately, if reliable and may differ from those estimates.
objective evidence of fair value for each deliverable is available.
The amount allocated to each unit is then recognized when each unit is delivered, provided that all other relevant revenue Foreign Currency recognition criteria are met with respect to that unit.
Assets and liabilities of self-sustaining subsidiaries denominated If, however, evidence of fair value is only available for undelivered in currencies other than U. S. dollars are translated at the period end rates of exchange, and the results of their operations are elements, the revenue is allocated first to the undelivered items, translated at average rates of exchange for the period.
The with the remainder of the revenue being allocated to the delivered resulting translation adjustments are included in accumulated items, utilizing the residual method.
Amounts allocated to delivered items are deferred if there are further obligations with other comprehensive income in shareholders equity.
Foreign exchange gains and losses related to certain intercompany loans respect to the delivered items.
If evidence of fair value is only that are permanent in nature are included in accumulated other available for the delivered items, but not the undelivered items, comprehensive income.
Other currency gains or losses are the arrangement is considered a single element arrangement and revenue is recognized as the relevant recognition criteria are met.
References to $ are to U. S. dollars, references to C$ are to Canadian dollars and references to are to British pounds sterling.
