PERFORMANCE RESTRICTED SHARE UNITS The Company believes that this new policy will provide reliable and more relevant information because all tax positions of The Company issues PRSUs as part of a long-term incentive the Company will be afrmatively evaluated for recognition, program for certain senior executives.
PRSUs give the holder derecognition and measurement using a consistent threshold the right to receive one Thomson Reuters Corporation common of more-likely-than-not, based on the technical merits of a share for each unit that vests on the vesting date.
In addition, the Company will be providing more granted may vest depending upon the Companys performance information about uncertainty related to income tax assets over a three-year performance period against pre-established and liabilities.
Compensation expense related to each PRSU grant is recognized over the three-year performance period based The Company was not able to retroactively apply this new policy as upon the closing price of Thomson Reuters Corporation common the data to determine the amounts and probabilities of the possible shares on the day prior to the grant date and the number of outcomes of the various tax positions that could be realized upon units expected to vest.
ultimate settlement was not collected in prior periods.
Further, significant judgments are involved in assessing these tax positions PHANTOM STOCK PLAN and the Company has concluded that it is not possible to estimate the effects of adopting the policy at an earlier date.
Awards under the phantom stock plan are granted in the form of stock appreciation rights SARs.
Such awards are payable in The Company will continue to recognize interest and penalties cash, and compensation expense is recognized as the SARs on underpayment of income taxes as an income tax expense.
change in value based on the fair market value of the Companys common shares at the end of each reporting period.
Financial Instruments and Comprehensive Income As of December 31, 2007, the Company adopted Canadian Institute EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN of Chartered Accountants CICA Handbook Section 1535, The Company maintains an employee stock purchase plan Capital Disclosures, and CICA Handbook Section 3862, Financial whereby eligible employees can purchase Thomson Reuters Instruments Disclosures see notes 16 and 17.
Corporation common shares or Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted CICA Handbook shares at a 15% discount up to a specified limit utilizing after-tax Section 1530, Comprehensive Income, CICA Handbook Section 3855, payroll deductions.
The discount is expensed as incurred.
All Financial Instruments Recognition and Measurement and CICA plan activity through December 31, 2008 related to Thomson Handbook Section 3865, Hedges.
These new Handbook Sections Reuters Corporation common shares.
provide comprehensive requirements for the recognition and measurement of financial instruments, as well as standards on NOTE 2: CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES when and how hedge accounting may be applied.
Handbook Section 1530 also introduces a new component of equity referred Income Taxes to as accumulated other comprehensive income.
Effective January 1, 2007, the Company voluntarily adopted a new Under these new standards, all financial instruments, including accounting policy for uncertain income tax positions.
As a result derivatives, are included on the consolidated balance sheet and are of this change in accounting policy, the Company recorded a nonmeasured either at fair market value or, in limited circumstances, cash charge of $33 million to its opening retained earnings as of at cost or amortized cost.
Derivatives that qualify as hedging January 1, 2007, with an offsetting increase to non-current liabilities.
instruments must be designated as either a cash ow hedge, Under its policy for accounting for uncertain tax positions, the when the hedged item is a future cash ow, or a fair value hedge, Company evaluates a tax position using a two-step process: when the hedged item is the fair value of a recognized asset or liability.
The effective portion of unrealized gains and losses First, the Company determines whether it is more likely than related to a cash ow hedge are included in other comprehensive not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, income.
For a fair value hedge, both the derivative and the hedged including resolution of any related appeals or litigation item are recorded at fair value in the consolidated balance sheet processes, based on the technical merits of the position.
In and the unrealized gains and losses from both items are included evaluating whether a tax position has met the more-likely-thanin earnings.
For derivatives that do not qualify as hedging not recognition threshold, the Company presumes that the instruments, unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings.
position will be examined by the appropriate taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information.
Second, a tax position that meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold is measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements.
The tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement.
If the tax position does not meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, no benefit from the tax position is recorded.
ANNUAL REPORT 2008 71 THOMSON REUTERS CORPORATION NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Unless otherwise stated, all amounts are in millions of U. S. dollars In accordance with the provisions of these new standards, the Recent Accounting Pronouncements Company reected the following adjustments as of January 1, 2006: GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS an increase of $53 million to Other non-current assets and In February 2008, the CICA issued CICA 3064, Goodwill and Accumulated other comprehensive income in the consolidated Intangible Assets, which replaces CICA 3062 and establishes balance sheet relative to derivative instruments that consisted standards for the recognition, measurement, presentation and primarily of interest rate contracts, which convert oating rate disclosure of goodwill and intangible assets.
The new standard debt to xed rate debt and qualify as cash ow hedges: expands on the criteria of when intangible assets can be recognized to include internally developed intangible assets and is effective for a reclassication of $5 million from Other current assets the Company as of January 1, 2009.
The Company does not believe and $3 million from Other current liabilities to Accumulated the adoption of this standard will have a significant impact on its other comprehensive income in the consolidated balance sheet financial statements.
related primarily to previously deferred gains and losses on settled cash ow hedges: FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES an increase of $16 million to Other non-current assets and On January 20, 2009, the EIC issued Abstract 173, Credit Risk and Long-term debt in the consolidated balance sheet related to the Fair Value of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities EIC-173, derivative instruments and their related hedged items.
These which provides further guidance on the determination of the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities under derivative instruments consist primarily of interest rate contracts Section 3855, Financial Instruments Recognition and Measurement.
to convert xed rate debt to oating and qualify as fair value EIC-173 concluded that when determining the fair value of hedges: and financial assets and financial liabilities, the entity should consider a presentational reclassication of amounts previously recordedits own credit risk as well as the credit risk of the counterparty.
in Cumulative translation adjustment to Accumulated other This abstract should be applied retrospectively, without comprehensive income.
restatement of prior periods, to all financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value in interim and annual financial statements The adoption of these new standards had no material impact on for periods ending on or after January 20, 2009.
The Company the Companys consolidated statement of earnings.
The unrealized does not believe the adoption of this standard will have a gains and losses included in Accumulated other comprehensive significant impact on its financial statements.
income were recorded net of taxes, which were nil.
TRANSITION TO INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING Discontinued Operations STANDARDS FROM CANADIAN GAAP In April 2006, the Emerging Issues Committee of the CICA EIC In 2008, the Canadian Accounting Standards Board confirmed issued Abstract 161, Discontinued Operations EIC-161.
The that Canadian publicly accountable enterprises will be required to abstract addresses the appropriateness of allocating interest adopt International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS by 2011 expense to a discontinued operation and disallows allocations of to replace Canadian GAAP.
The Canadian securities regulatory general corporate overhead.
EIC-161 was effective upon its authorities have approved Thomson Reuters application to early issuance and did not have an impact on the Companys adopt IFRS in 2009. consolidated financial statements.
The Company will initially le its quarterly report for the three Stock-Based Compensation months ended March 31, 2009 Q1 2009 quarterly report under Canadian GAAP and continue to provide a voluntary reconciliation In July 2006, the Company adopted EIC Abstract 162, Stock-Based of earnings and equity from Canadian GAAP to IFRS for the Compensation for Employees Eligible to Retire Before the Vesting respective periods presented.
Prior to the issuance of the Date EIC-162, retroactively to January 1, 2006.
The abstract quarterly report for the period ended June 30, 2009, the Company claries the proper accounting for stock-based awards granted expects to amend the Q1 2009 quarterly report to present the to employees who either are eligible for retirement at the grant interim financial statements and footnotes in accordance with date or will be eligible before the end of the vesting period and International Accounting Standard 34, Interim Financial Reporting continue vesting after, or vest upon, retirement.
In addition, the amended report will include restated compensation expense associated with the stock-based award will 2008 annual and interim financial statement information to be be recognized over the period from the grant date to the date the consistent with the new IFRS basis, as well as reconciliations of employee becomes eligible to retire.
EIC-162 did not have a equity and net earnings for the previously reported Canadian significant impact on the Companys financial statements.
