Other Substantial Shareholders SHAREHOLDERS The following sets forth information about substantial shareholders Woodbridge other than Woodbridge.
The percentage of total voting interests Based on the issued share capital of Thomson Reuters Corporation below reect the issued share capital of Thomson Reuters and of Thomson Reuters PLC as of March 26, 2009, Woodbridge Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC.
had a voting interest in Thomson Reuters of approximately 55% As of March 26, 2009, no shareholders other than Woodbridge and is the principal and controlling shareholder of Thomson had advised us that they beneficially owned 5% or more of Reuters.
On March 26, 2009, Woodbridge beneficially owned Thomson Reuters Corporations shares.
438,418,486 Thomson Reuters Corporation common shares and 16,725,287 Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares including As of March 26, 2009, the following shareholders other than ADSs underlying ordinary shares.
Woodbridge had advised us that they beneficially owned 3% or more of Thomson Reuters PLCs shares.
Woodbridge, a private company, is the primary investment vehicle for members of the family of the late Roy H. Thomson, the first Shareholder Number Percentage Percentage Lord Thomson of Fleet.
Woodbridge is a professionally managed of ordinary of ordinary of total company that, in addition to its controlling interest in Thomson shares shares voting rights Reuters, has other substantial investments.
Royal Bank 14,601,274 8.05% 1.76% Prior to his passing in June 2006, Kenneth R. Thomson controlled 1 of Canada Thomson through Woodbridge.
He did so by holding shares of a ValueAct Capital 10,833,806 5.97% 1.30% holding company of Woodbridge, Thomson Investments Limited.
Master Fund L. P. Under his estate arrangements, the 2003 TIL Settlement, a trust of which the trust company subsidiary of a Canadian chartered bank Caisse fide dpt et 5,700,959 3.14% 0.68% is trustee and members of the family of the late first Lord Thomson placement du Qubec of Fleet are beneciaries, holds those holding company shares.
1 Held by the following afliated entities Phillips, Hager & North Investment Kenneth R. Thomson established these arrangements to provide Management Ltd. RBC Asset Management Inc. and RBC Trustees CI Ltd. for long-term stability of the business of Woodbridge.
The equity of Woodbridge continues to be owned by members of successive These shareholders do not have any different voting rights from generations of the family of the first Lord Thomson of Fleet.
Under the estate arrangements of Kenneth R. Thomson, the directors and ofcers of Woodbridge are responsible for its Registered and beneficial Shareholders business and operations.
In certain limited circumstances, The following information regarding our shareholders is provided including very substantial dispositions of Thomson Reuters as of March 20, 2009.
Corporation common shares by Woodbridge, the estate arrangements provide for approval of the trustee to be obtained.
THOMSON REUTERS CORPORATION Woodbridges primary investment is its holding of our shares.
It actively monitors our company as a controlling shareholder.
Estimated In its involvement with our company, Woodbridge focuses on Registered beneficial these matters: holders holders Common shares 2,891 39,385 corporate governance, including the effectiveness of our board: Series II preference shares 8 336 appointment of the Chief Executive officer and other members of senior management and related succession planning: THOMSON REUTERS PLC development of the long-term business strategy of Thomson Estimated Reuters and assessment of its implementation: and Registered beneficial holders holders capital strategy.
Ordinary shares 20,180 N A With its substantial equity investment in our company, ADSs 1,688 N A Woodbridge considers that its interests as a Thomson Reuters shareholder are aligned with those of all other shareholders.
U. S. SHAREHOLDERS OF RECORD The Corporate Governance Committee of our board considers any transactions that may take place between our company and Percentage Registered Number of of total voting Woodbridge, with any committee members related to Woodbridge holders shares held interests abstaining from voting.
In addition, any transactions between Woodbridge and our company are subject to public disclosure Common shares 223 52,071,566 6.29% and other requirements under applicable Canadian and U. K. Series II preference shares 1 150 N A securities laws.
