ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Since certain of our shares and ADSs were held by brokers or other Standard & Poors S&P nominees, the number of record holders in the United States may S&Ps long-term credit ratings are on a rating scale that ranges not be representative of the number of beneficial holders or of from AAA to D, which represents the range from highest to lowest where the beneficial holders are resident.
quality of such securities rated.
S&Ps A rating assigned to our long-term debt instruments is the third highest rating of 10 major TRANSFER AGENTS AND REGISTRARS rating categories.
An A rating indicates that the obligors capacity to meet its financial commitment is strong, but that The transfer agent and registrar for Thomson Reuters Corporation the obligation is somewhat more susceptible to adverse effects common shares in Canada is Computershare Trust Company of of changes in circumstances and economic conditions than Canada, with transfer facilities in Toronto, Montreal, Calgary and obligations in higher rated categories.
In the United States, Thomson Reuters Corporations designations to indicate the relative standing of securities transfer agent is Computershare Trust Company N. A. with within a particular rating category.
transfer facilities in Golden, Colorado.
Computershare Investor Services PLC is our transfer agent in the United Kingdom in DBRS Limited DBRS Bristol, England.
Computershare Trust Company of Canada is also the transfer agent and registrar for our Series II preference shares, DBRS credit ratings are on a long-term debt rating scale that with transfer facilities only in Toronto.
ranges from AAA to D, which represents the range from highest to lowest quality of such securities rated.
DBRS A rating assigned The transfer agent and registrar for Thomson Reuters PLC to our long-term debt is the third highest of the 10 rating ordinary shares is Equiniti Limited, with transfer facilities located categories for long-term debt.
Debt securities rated A are of in West Sussex, United Kingdom.
The depositary bank for satisfactory credit quality and protection of interest and principal Thomson Reuters PLC ADSs is Deutsche Bank Trust Company is considered substantial.
A reference to high or low reects Americas, with transfer facilities administered on its behalf by the relative strength within the rating category.
American Stock Transfer & Trust Company in New York, New York, United States.
Fitch Ratings Fitch Fitchs long-term credit ratings are on a rating scale that ranges CREDIT RATINGS from AAA to D, which represents the range from highest to lowest Our long-term unsecured debt securities are rated Baa1 stable by quality of such securities rated.
Fitchs A rating assigned to Moodys, A negative by S&P, A low stable by DBRS and A our long-term debt instruments is the third highest rating of stable by Fitch.
An A rating indicates a low expectation of ceased or interrupted payments and strong capacity to meet Credit ratings are intended to provide investors with an independent obligations on a timely basis.
Fitch uses or - designations measure of the credit quality of an issue of securities and are to indicate the relative standing of securities within a particular indicators of the likelihood of payment and of the capacity and rating category.
willingness of a company to meet its financial commitment on an obligation in accordance with the terms of the obligation.
A description of the rating categories of each of the rating MATERIAL CONTRACTS agencies is set out below.
Credit Agreement These credit ratings are not recommendations to purchase, hold or sell securities and do not address the market price or suitability In 2007, we entered into a $2.5 billion unsecured revolving credit of a specic security for a particular investor.
Credit ratings may facility that currently expires in August 2012.
We may request not reect the potential impact of all risks on the value of an extension of the maturity date under certain circumstances securities.
In addition, real or anticipated changes in the rating for up to two additional one-year periods, which the applicable assigned to a security will generally affect the market value of that lenders may accept or decline in their sole discretion.
Shareholders cannot be assured that a rating will remain request an increase subject to approval by applicable lenders in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be in the amount of the lenders commitments up to a maximum revised or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency in the future.
We can utilize the facility to provide liquidity in connection with our commercial paper program and for Moodys Investor Services Moodys general corporate purposes.
Based on our current credit rating, the cost of borrowing under the agreement is priced at LIBOR plus Moodys long-term credit ratings are on a rating scale that ranges 19 basis points or plus 24 basis points on all borrowings when from Aaa to C, which represents the range from highest to lowest line utilization exceeds 50%.
If our long-term debt rating was quality of such securities rated.
Moodys Baa rating assigned to downgraded by Moodys or S&P, our facility fee and borrowing our long-term debt instruments is the fourth highest rating of nine costs may increase, although availability would be unaffected.
Obligations rated Baa are subject to moderate Conversely, an upgrade in our ratings may reduce our credit credit risk.
They are considered medium-grade and as such may facility fees and borrowing costs.
Moodys appends numerical modiers from 1 to 3 to its long-term debt ratings, which indicate where the obligation ranks in its ranking category, with 1 being the highest.
