MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS as discontinued operations in 2008.
In 2007, we completed the USE OF PRO FORMA AND NON-GAAP sale of Thomson Learning.
Our proceeds from the sales of FINANCIAL MEASURES discontinued operations, net of taxes paid, were $7 billion in 2007 Due to the significant impact of the Reuters acquisition on our and $81 million in 2006.
Additionally, over the past few years we results, we include pro forma results as if we had acquired Reuters have sold certain minority equity investments and businesses that on January 1, 2007 to provide a more meaningful analysis of our did not qualify as discontinued operations.
Proceeds from these performance compared to the prior year.
Pro forma results do not sales amounted to $293 million in 2008, $18 million in 2007 reect the actual results of our business.
See the section entitled Tradeweb Partnership for discussion of our sale of a minority interest In addition to our pro forma results and results reported in in that business.
accordance with Canadian GAAP, we use certain non-GAAP financial measures as supplemental indicators of our operating Integration and Synergy Programs performance and financial position and for internal planning purposes.
We have historically reported non-GAAP financial In 2008, we made significant progress on our integration results as we believe their use provides more insight into and synergy program, including the realization of cost synergies, our performance.
the streamlining of product offerings in our Markets division, the pursuit of revenue synergies across both divisions and the The following is a description of our non-GAAP financial achievement of our goal of becoming one company in one year.
measures, including an explanation of why we believe they are As we progressed with the execution of our Reuters integration plan useful measures of our performance, including our ability to in 2008, we identied significant additional opportunities for cost generate cash ow.
We now expect $1 billion in annualized cost savings from Revenue and operating profit from ongoing businesses.
integration programs by the end of 2011, up from $750 million of We believe our revenue and profits are best measured based savings projected in May 2008 and $500 million estimated when on our ability to grow our ongoing businesses over the long we announced our agreement to acquire Reuters in May 2007. term.
Accordingly, we evaluate our revenue and operating This raised our overall savings target including legacy efficiency profit excluding results from disposals, which are dened as programs to $1.4 billion.
businesses sold or held for sale that do not qualify for Across all integration and legacy efficiency programs, we achieved discontinued operations classication.
combined run-rate savings of $750 million as of December 31, Net debt.
We define our net debt as our total indebtedness, 2008.
The 2008 cost required to achieve these savings through including associated fair value hedging instruments swaps December 31 was approximately $362 million.
Of this amount, on our debt, less cash and cash equivalents.
Given that we $329 million related to integration programs and primarily hedge some of our debt to reduce risk, we include hedging consisted of severance and consulting expenses as well as costs instruments as we believe it provides a better measure of the associated with certain technology initiatives and branding.
total obligation associated with our outstanding debt.
However, The remaining $33 million related to legacy efficiency initiatives because we intend to hold our debt and related hedges to and primarily consisted of severance costs as well as consulting maturity, we do not consider the associated fair market value fees related to a company-wide enterprise resource planning of cash ow hedges in our measurements.
We reduce gross ERP system.
indebtedness by cash and cash equivalents on the basis that We are now beginning the second phase of the acquisition they could be used to pay down debt.
See the reconciliation of integration, which includes retiring legacy products and systems this measure to the most directly comparable Canadian GAAP to simplify our business and help make us more agile, responsive measure in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of and profitable.
In 2009, we will roll out new strategic products, this managements discussion and analysis.
consolidate data centers and capture revenue synergies.
We evaluate our operating performance based on Because these are corporate initiatives, incremental expenses free cash ow, which we define as net cash provided by operating which are directed at capturing these cost savings are reported activities less capital expenditures, other investing activities and within the Corporate and Other segment.
The various initiatives dividends paid on our preference shares.
We use free cash ow are expected to be completed in 2011 at a total cost of $1.4 billion.
as a performance measure because it represents cash available Expenses associated with legacy efficiency programs incurred prior to repay debt, pay common and ordinary dividends and fund to 2008 are excluded from this amount.
We incur restructuring costs share repurchases and new acquisitions.
See the reconciliation associated with these efforts, including severance and losses on of this measure to the most directly comparable Canadian GAAP lease terminations and other cancellations of contracts.
Certain measure in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of this costs qualify to be recorded as part of goodwill and the remainder managements discussion and analysis.
We define underlying free cash ow as free cash ow excluding one-time cash costs related to the Reuters acquisition and costs associated with integration and synergy programs.
We use underlying free cash ow as a performance measure because it represents free cash ow generated by our operations excluding certain unusual items.
See the analysis of this measure compared to free cash ow in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of this managements discussion and analysis.
