ADDITIONAL INFORMATION shareholders of the two companies receive equivalent cashDUAL LISTED COMPANY STRUCTURE dividends and capital distributions: Overview each company has guaranteed all contractual obligations We operate under a dual listed company DLC structure and of the other company and will guarantee other obligations have two parent companies, both of which are publicly listed as agreed: and Thomson Reuters Corporation, an Ontario, Canada corporation, a take-over bid or similar transaction is required to be made and Thomson Reuters PLC, a public limited company registered in for shares of both companies on an equivalent basis.
These companies operate as a unied group pursuant to contractual arrangements as well as provisions in their Thomson Reuters Corporation was incorporated under the organizational documents.
Under the DLC structure, shareholders Business Corporations Act Ontario by articles of incorporation of Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC both dated December 28, 1977.
Its Ontario corporation number is have a stake in Thomson Reuters, with cash dividend, capital 373074.
Thomson Reuters Corporation amended and restated its distribution and voting rights that are comparable to the rights articles effective April 17, 2008.
Its registered ofce is located at they would have if they were holding shares in one company Suite 2706, Toronto Dominion Bank Tower, P. O.
Box 24, Torontocarrying on Thomson Reuters business.
Dominion Centre, Toronto, Ontario M5K 1A1, Canada.
Prior to April 17, 2008, Thomson Reuters Corporation was known as Key features of the DLC structure include the following: The Thomson Corporation.
Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC Thomson Reuters PLC is a public company limited by shares are separate publicly listed companies: incorporated on March 6, 2007 under the U. K. Companies Act the boards of directors of the two companies are comprised 1985 with registered number 06141013.
Thomson Reuters PLC of the same individuals, as are the companies executive amended and restated its articles effective October 1, 2008.
Its management: registered ofce is located at The Thomson Reuters Building, South Colonnade, Canary Wharf, London E14 5EP, United Kingdom.
shareholders of the two companies ordinarily vote together as a single decision-making body, including in the election The following simplied diagram illustrates the current structure of directors: of Thomson Reuters.
CURRENT THOMSON REUTERS STRUCTURE Thomson Reuters Thomson Reuters Thomson Reuters Corporation Thomson Reuters PLC PLC Special Voting Corporation Special shareholders shareholders Share Trust Voting Share Trust Common shares Ordinar y shares Special voting share Equalization and Governance Agreement Thomson Reuters Corporation Thomson Reuters PLC Ontario, Canada England and Wales Cross-guarantees Reuters Founders Shares Reuters Group Limited Reuters Founders Share Company Limited formerly Reuters Group PLC England and Wales England and Wales Debt and minority share interests Operations Operations Key Features of the DLC Structure Reuters PLC ordinary shares are admitted to the ofcial list of the U. K. Listing Authority and to trading on the LSEs main market Below is a description of the key features of the DLC structure.
The ADSs, each representing six Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares, are listed on the Nasdaq Global SEPARATE ENTITIES AND LISTINGS Select Market.
Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC Thomson Reuters Corporation is included in the S&P TSX series maintain separate stock exchange listings.
Thomson Reuters of indices and Thomson Reuters PLC is included in the FTSE Corporation common shares are listed on the TSX and the NYSE U. K. series of indices.
and the Series II preference shares are listed on the TSX.
