ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The current directors, with their countries of residence and dates share capital, or remove or amend provisions in our organizational of initial appointment are: documents relating to Reuters Founders Share Company and the Reuters Founders Shares.
Name Country Director since Reuters Trust Principles Support Agreement Leonard Berkowitz U. K. 1998 Under a Reuters Trust Principles Support Agreement Woodbridge The Honourable Mrs. Anson Chan China 2002 has agreed to support the Reuters Trust Principles and to exercise Sir Michael Checkland U. K. 1994 its voting rights to give effect to this support and Reuters Jiri Dienstbier Czech Republic 2005 Founders Share Company has irrevocably designated Woodbridge Uffe Ellemann-Jensen Denmark 2001 as an approved person for so long as Woodbridge is controlled by John Fairfax Australia 2005 members of the Thomson family, companies controlled by them Pehr Gyllenhammar Chairman Sweden 1997 and trusts for their benefit.
Alejandro Junco fide la Vega Mexico 2006 JosephLelyveld U. S. A.
2004 Sir Christopher Mallaby U. K. 1998 ORGANIZATIONAL DOCUMENTS John McArthur Canada 2001 The following is a summary of certain provisions of our organizational Mammen Matthew India 2002 documents as required under applicable securities laws and The Right Hon.
Baroness Noakes U. K. 1998 related provisions of applicable corporate and securities laws.
Sir William Purves U. K. 1998 Copies of our organizational documents are available on our Jaakko Rauramo Finland 1999 website and have also been led with the SEC and the Canadian Dr. Sachio Semmoto Japan 2007 securities regulatory authorities.
Thomson Reuters Corporation, an Ontario, Canada corporation, is The directors are appointed for an initial term of five years and governed under the Business Corporations Act Ontario, or OBCA.
must retire on December 31 following the fifth anniversary Thomson Reuters PLC, a public limited company registered in following appointment or re-appointment.
Directors are eligible England and Wales, is governed under the U. K. Companies Acts for re-appointment for a further term of five years, subject to 1985 and 2006. a maximum term of 15 years.
Objects and Purposes Amended Deed of Mutual Covenant As a company incorporated under the OBCA, Thomson Reuters Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC are Corporation is not required to include specic objects or purposes parties to an Amended Deed of Mutual Covenant, under which in its articles of incorporation or by-laws.
Thomson Reuters each company and Reuters Founders Share Company has Corporations articles of incorporation do not place any restrictions covenanted with English, Australian and New Zealand press on the business it may carry on or the powers it may exercise.
associations to use its best endeavors to ensure that the Reuters Trust Principles are complied with in relation to Thomson Reuters.
Thomson Reuters PLCs principal objects are to: enter into, operate and carry into effect various agreements REUTERS FOUNDERS SHARES related to the DLC structure: and Each of Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC carry on business as a general commercial company and has issued to Reuters Founders Share Company a Reuters Founders to carry on any trade or business whatsoever.
Share, which enables Reuters Founders Share Company to exercise extraordinary voting power to safeguard the Reuters Trust Principles The objects of Thomson Reuters PLC are set out in full in paragraph 4 and to thwart those whose holdings of Thomson Reuters voting of the Thomson Reuters PLC memorandum of association.
shares threaten the Reuters Trust Principles.
The Reuters Founders Share entitles Reuters Founders Share Company to Certain Powers of Directors vote in circumstances where an acquiring person, other than The OBCA requires that a director of a corporation who is a party an approved person or an entity within Thomson Reuters, has to a material contract or transaction or a proposed material become or becomes interested in, or the beneficial owner of, contract or transaction with the corporation, or who is a director 15% or more of the outstanding voting shares of either Thomson or officer of, or has a material interest in, any person who is a party Reuters Corporation or Thomson Reuters PLC or has obtained to a material contract or transaction or a proposed material or is attempting to obtain the ability to control the exercise of, or contract or transaction with the corporation, must disclose in beneficial ownership of, 30% or more of the outstanding voting writing to the corporation or request to have entered in the shares of Thomson Reuters Corporation or Thomson Reuters PLC.
minutes of the meetings of directors the nature and extent of his In general, votes cast by Reuters Founders Share Company, alone or or her interest, and shall refrain from voting in respect of the in combination with votes cast by approved persons, will be sufficient contract or transaction unless the contract or transaction is one: either to negate the voting power of the acquiring person or to constitute the requisite majority voting power.
The rights attaching relating primarily to his or her remuneration as a director of to the Reuters Founders Shares may not be varied or abrogated in the corporation or an afliate: any respect without the prior written consent of Reuters Founders for indemnity of or insurance for the directors as contemplated Share Company.
In addition, without the prior written consent under the OBCA: or of Reuters Founders Share Company, we may not take certain fundamental corporate actions, including certain changes to our with an afliate.
126 THOMSON REUTERS Under the articles of association of Thomson Reuters PLC, a Our directors are elected or appointed to hold ofce until the director of Thomson Reuters PLC may not vote in respect of any next annual meeting of shareholders or until they resign or their transaction or arrangement with Thomson Reuters PLC in which successor is elected or appointed.
Our directors are not required to he or she has an interest which may reasonably be regarded as retire after reaching a particular age.
Our board of directors does likely to give rise to a conict of interest other than in respect of not believe it should establish term limits or mandatory retirement any resolution concerning any of the following matters: ages for its members as such limits may deprive Thomson Reuters and our shareholders of the contributions of members who have any transaction or arrangement in which he or she is interested been able to develop, over time, valuable insights into Thomson by virtue of an interest in shares, debentures or other securities Reuters, our strategy and business operations.
of Thomson Reuters PLC or otherwise in or through Thomson Reuters PLC: Our directors are not required to hold shares of Thomson Reuters Corporation or Thomson Reuters PLC pursuant to our organizational the giving of any guarantee, security or indemnity in respect of: documents.
However, directors are encouraged to hold Thomson a money lent or obligations incurred by him or her or by any Reuters Corporation common shares, Thomson Reuters PLC other person at the request of, or for the benefit of, Thomson ordinary shares and or deferred share units of Thomson Reuters Reuters PLC or any of its subsidiary undertakings: or b a debt Corporation having a value equal to five times their annual or obligation of Thomson Reuters PLC or any of its subsidiary retainer within five years from the date of their initial appointment undertakings for which he or she has assumed responsibility in or election to our board.
whole or in part either alone or jointly with others under a guarantee or indemnity or by the giving of security: Authorized Share Capital indemnification including loans made in connection with it For information about the authorized share capital of Thomson by Thomson Reuters PLC in relation to the performance of his Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC and the rights, or her duties on behalf of Thomson Reuters PLC or any of its privileges, restriction and conditions attaching to those shares, subsidiary undertakings: please see the Description of Capital Structure section of this any issue or offer of shares, debentures or other securities of annual report.
Thomson Reuters PLC or any of its subsidiary undertakings in respect of which he or she is or may be entitled to participate in Capital Calls on Shares his or her capacity as a holder of any such securities or as an If a shareholder of Thomson Reuters PLC fails to pay in full underwriter or sub-underwriter: any call or installment of a call, our board of directors may serve any transaction or arrangement concerning any other company a notice on such shareholder requiring payment of that unpaid in which he or she does not hold, directly or indirectly as amount, together with any interest which may have accrued shareholder, or through his or her direct or indirect holdings of thereon and any expenses incurred by Thomson Reuters PLC financial instruments voting rights representing 1% or more of by reason of such non-payment.
If such request is not complied any class of shares in the capital of that company: with, any share in respect of which such notice has been given may be forfeited upon the approval of our board.
Unless our any arrangement for the benefit of employees of Thomson board determines otherwise, no such shareholder is entitled Reuters PLC or any of its subsidiary undertakings which does to vote at any meeting of shareholders or to exercise any other not accord to him or her any privilege or benefit not generally rights in respect of any shares on which any call or other sum accorded to the employees to whom the arrangement relates: presently payable by such shareholder to Thomson Reuters PLC and remains unpaid.
the purchase or maintenance of insurance for the benefit of Under the OBCA, a corporation may not issue a share until directors of Thomson Reuters PLC or for the benefit of persons the consideration for the share is fully paid and all shares including directors of Thomson Reuters PLC.
issued by a corporation must be non-assessable.
Accordingly, Our organizational documents provide that our directors shall shareholders of Thomson Reuters Corporation have no liability be paid such remuneration for their services as our board of to further capital calls.
directors may from time to time determine, with no requirement for a quorum of independent directors.
Our corporate governance Variation of Rights committee, comprised entirely of non-management directors, The rights, privileges, restrictions or conditions attaching to any a majority of whom are independent directors, annually reviews class of shares of Thomson Reuters Corporation or Thomson the adequacy and form of our directors compensation and Reuters PLC may be amended with the approval of both: recommends to our board of directors a compensation model that is competitive and appropriately compensates our directors for the a special resolution of shareholders approved as a Class Rights responsibilities and risks involved in being an effective director.
Action or Joint Electorate Action, as applicable: and Subject to applicable laws, our directors may exercise all thea special resolution of the holders of the class of shares that is powers of Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters being affected.
This authority may be restricted through our organizational documents, although no such restrictions are in place.
ANNUAL REPORT 2008 127 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Without the prior written consent of Reuters Founders Share Change of Control Provisions Company we may not take certain fundamental corporate actions, There are no provisions in our organizational documents which including certain changes to our share capital or remove or amend are designed to delay or prevent a change of control of Thomson provisions in our organizational documents relating to Reuters Reuters Corporation or Thomson Reuters PLC.
Founders Share Company and the Reuters Founders Shares.
Our organizational documents include provisions that are Annual and Special Meetings of Shareholders designed to ensure that holders of our common shares and ordinary shares are treated on an equivalent basis in the event of The OBCA requires Thomson Reuters Corporation to call an any take-over bid or similar transaction.
For further information, annual meeting of shareholders not later than 15 months after please see the Dual Listed Company Structure section of this holding the last preceding annual meeting and permits Thomson annual report.
Reuters Corporation to call special meetings of shareholders at any time.
Thomson Reuters Corporation is required to mail In addition, the holder of the Reuters Founders Shares may a notice of meeting and management information circular to exercise extraordinary voting powers to safeguard the Reuters holders of Thomson Reuters Corporation common shares and Trust Principles.
For further information, please see the Reuters the Reuters Founders Shares not less than 21 days and not more Trust Principles and Reuters Founders Share Company section than 50 days prior to the date of any annual or special meeting of this annual report.
Disclosure of Share Ownership An annual general meeting of Thomson Reuters PLC may be called by not less than 21 days notice in writing and all other Canadian securities laws provide that if a person acquires general meetings may be called by not less than 14 days notice beneficial ownership of voting or equity securities of a class of in writing.
Pursuant to the Thomson Reuters PLC articles of a reporting issuer that, together with previously held securities association, notwithstanding that a general meeting has been brings the total holdings of such holder to 10% or more of the called by a shorter notice than that specified above, such general outstanding securities of that class, such person must issue a meeting shall be deemed to have been duly called if it is so agreed: press release and, within two business days, le an early warning report containing certain prescribed information.
The person must in the case of an annual general meeting, by all the also issue a press release and le a report each time an additional shareholders entitled to attend and vote thereat, including 2% or more of the outstanding securities of the same class is the holder of the Reuters Founders Share: and acquired or there is a material change to the contents of the in the case of any other general meeting, by a majority inpress release and report previously issued and led.
number of the shareholders having a right to attend and vote Under the U. K. Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial thereat, being a majority together holding not less than 95% Services Authority, a shareholder must notify Thomson Reuters in nominal value of the shares giving that right, and by the PLC of the percentage of the Thomson Reuters PLC voting rights it holder of the Reuters Founders Share.
holds as a shareholder or through its direct or indirect holding of A quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of applicable financial instruments if the percentage of those voting shareholders of Thomson Reuters Corporation or Thomson rights reaches, exceeds or falls below 3% and every 1% threshold Reuters PLC is either two persons present and each entitled to above 3% up to 100% as a result of the acquisition or disposal of vote at the meeting or the holder of the Reuters Founders Shares.
shares or applicable financial instruments of Thomson Reuters The holder of the special voting shares and the holder of the PLC.
The notication to Thomson Reuters PLC must be made as Reuters Founders Shares must also be present or represented soon as possible, but not later than two trading days after the by proxy at any meeting at which they are entitled to vote.
Thomson Reuters PLC must on receipt of the notication as soon as possible and in any event The only persons who are entitled to attend any annual or special by not later than the end of the trading day following receipt meeting of shareholders of Thomson Reuters are those entitled to of the notication make public all of the information contained vote at the meeting, our auditors and directors as well as others in the notication.
who are required by law to be present or those persons present at the invitation of the chairperson of the meeting or present with The U. S. Securities Exchange Act imposes reporting requirements the consent of the meeting.
on persons who acquire beneficial ownership of more than 5% of a class of an equity security registered under Section 12 of the Limitations on the Rights to Own Securities U. S. Securities Exchange Act.
In general, these persons must le, within 10 days after such an acquisition, a report of beneficial For information about limitations on the rights to own shares ownership with the SEC containing the prescribed information.
of Thomson Reuters Corporation or Thomson Reuters PLC, This information is also required to be sent to the issuer of the please see the Exchange Controls section of this annual report.
securities and to each exchange where the securities are traded.
Our directors, ofcers and other insiders are subject to insider reporting obligations under Canadian, U. K. and U. S. securities laws.
