MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS APPENDIX D The following describes the differences presented in the 2.
Employee Benets reconciliation of net earnings and shareholders equity.
MEASUREMENT DATE 1. Business Combinations Canadian GAAP The measurement date of dened benefit obligations and plan assets may be up to three months prior to ACQUISITION COST the date of the financial statements.
Canadian GAAP Shares issued as consideration are measured IFRS The measurement date generally coincides with the date at their market price a few days before and after the date the of the financial statements, because the measurement date must parties reach an agreement on the purchase price and proposed not result in a materially different outcome than if the balance transaction is announced.
IFRS Shares issued as consideration are measured at their market price on the acquisition closing date.
PAST SERVICE COST Canadian GAAP Past service costs arising from plan CONTINGENT CONSIDERATION amendments are amortized on a straight-line basis over the Canadian GAAP Contingent consideration is recognized as average remaining service period of active employees expected part of the cost of an acquisition, but only at the point when to benefit from the amendment.
the amount can be reasonably estimated and the outcome is IFRS These costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the determined beyond reasonable doubt.
average period until the benets become vested.
To the extent IFRS Contingent consideration is recognized as part of the cost that the amended benets are already vested, past service costs of an acquisition at the date of acquisition, if it is probable that the are recognized immediately.
contingency will be met and the amount can be reliably measured at fair value.
Changes to the initial amount recorded are recognized ACTUARIAL GAINS AND LOSSES through earnings and discounts on future cash payments are Canadian GAAP Actuarial gains and losses are recognized on a accreted through interest expense.
systematic and consistent basis, subject to a minimum required amortization based on a corridor approach.
Unrecognized ACQUISITION RELATED COSTS actuarial gains and losses below the corridor are deferred.
Canadian GAAP Costs of the acquirer such as 1 exiting an IFRS We have elected an accounting policy of recognizing activity, 2 involuntarily terminating an employee, or 3 relocating actuarial gains and losses immediately through equity.
employees of an acquired company are recognized as part of the cost of an acquisition.
FAIR VALUE OF PLAN ASSETS IFRS These costs are expensed, unless they are part of an Canadian GAAP A market-related fair value is used for existing restructuring by the acquiree, in which case they may purposes of calculating expected returns on plan assets with be recognized as part of the cost of an acquisition.
changes in the fair value of plan assets recognized over a five-year period.
ADJUSTMENTS TO PROVISIONAL PURCHASE PRICE ALLOCATION IFRS Plan assets are measured at fair value and fair value is used to determine the expected return on plan assets.
Canadian GAAP Adjustments related to the nalization of initial purchase price allocations are changes in accounting 3.
Stock-based Compensation estimates and accounted for prospectively from the period in which the purchase price allocation was nalized.
RECOGNITION OF EXPENSE IFRS Adjustments related to the nalization of initial purchase Canadian GAAP The fair value of a stock-based award with price allocations are applied retrospectively, as if they occurred graded vesting is recognized on a straight-line basis over the on the acquisition date.
Accordingly, prior period amounts are vesting period.
restated to reect the final purchase price allocation, including IFRS Each tranche of an award is considered a separate grant any changes in amortization that become necessary for prior with a different vesting date and fair value, and each is accounted periods based on the final allocations.
FORFEITURES Canadian GAAP Forfeitures of awards may be recognized as they occur.
IFRS Forfeiture estimates are recognized in the current period and revised for actual experience in subsequent periods.
