INTELLIGENT INFORMATION ANNUAL REVIEW 2008 This document includes summary financial information and should not be considered a substitute for our full financial statements, including footnotes, management auditors reports, and related managements discussion and analysis MD&A.
You can access our 2008 audited financial statements, MD&A and other annual disclosures in the Investor Relations section of our website, www.
com, as well as in our lings with securities regulatory authorities.
We believe that pro forma financial information provides more meaningful period-to-period comparisons of our 2008 performance because Reuters results prior to the April 17, 2008 acquisition closing date are not included in our Canadian GAAP TABLE OF CONTENTS results.
Our pro forma results have been prepared as if the acquisition had closed on January 1, 2007.
Pro forma financial 1 Letter to Shareholders information is for informational purposes only and is unaudited.
4 Financial Overview For more information regarding how we prepare pro forma 6 Intelligent Information financial information, please see our MD&A.
18 Investment Prole and Financial Priorities 19 Integration and Savings Programs We also use certain non-GAAP financial measures, such as 20 Our People revenue and operating profit from ongoing businesses, free cash 22 Senior Management ow and underlying free cash ow.
Non-GAAP financial measures 24 Board of Directors are dened and reconciled to the most directly comparable 26 Corporate Responsibility Canadian GAAP measures in our MD&A.
We use these non-GAAP 28 Summary Financial Information financial measures as supplemental indicators of our operating 33 Revenue Prole performance and financial position.
These measures do not 34 Division Performance have any standardized meanings prescribed by Canadian GAAP 36 Corporate Information and therefore are unlikely to be comparable to the calculation of similar measures used by other companies, and should not be Information in this annual review is provided as viewed as alternatives to measures of financial performance of March 20, 2009, unless otherwise indicated.
calculated in accordance with Canadian GAAP.
