ADDITIONAL INFORMATION shareholders of the two companies receive equivalent cashDUAL LISTED COMPANY STRUCTURE dividends and capital distributions: Overview each company has guaranteed all contractual obligations We operate under a dual listed company DLC structure and of the other company and will guarantee other obligations have two parent companies, both of which are publicly listed as agreed: and Thomson Reuters Corporation, an Ontario, Canada corporation, a take-over bid or similar transaction is required to be made and Thomson Reuters PLC, a public limited company registered in for shares of both companies on an equivalent basis.
These companies operate as a unied group pursuant to contractual arrangements as well as provisions in their Thomson Reuters Corporation was incorporated under the organizational documents.
Under the DLC structure, shareholders Business Corporations Act Ontario by articles of incorporation of Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC both dated December 28, 1977.
Its Ontario corporation number is have a stake in Thomson Reuters, with cash dividend, capital 373074.
Thomson Reuters Corporation amended and restated its distribution and voting rights that are comparable to the rights articles effective April 17, 2008.
Its registered ofce is located at they would have if they were holding shares in one company Suite 2706, Toronto Dominion Bank Tower, P. O.
Box 24, Torontocarrying on Thomson Reuters business.
Dominion Centre, Toronto, Ontario M5K 1A1, Canada.
Prior to April 17, 2008, Thomson Reuters Corporation was known as Key features of the DLC structure include the following: The Thomson Corporation.
Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC Thomson Reuters PLC is a public company limited by shares are separate publicly listed companies: incorporated on March 6, 2007 under the U. K. Companies Act the boards of directors of the two companies are comprised 1985 with registered number 06141013.
Thomson Reuters PLC of the same individuals, as are the companies executive amended and restated its articles effective October 1, 2008.
Its management: registered ofce is located at The Thomson Reuters Building, South Colonnade, Canary Wharf, London E14 5EP, United Kingdom.
shareholders of the two companies ordinarily vote together as a single decision-making body, including in the election The following simplied diagram illustrates the current structure of directors: of Thomson Reuters.
CURRENT THOMSON REUTERS STRUCTURE Thomson Reuters Thomson Reuters Thomson Reuters Corporation Thomson Reuters PLC PLC Special Voting Corporation Special shareholders shareholders Share Trust Voting Share Trust Common shares Ordinar y shares Special voting share Equalization and Governance Agreement Thomson Reuters Corporation Thomson Reuters PLC Ontario, Canada England and Wales Cross-guarantees Reuters Founders Shares Reuters Group Limited Reuters Founders Share Company Limited formerly Reuters Group PLC England and Wales England and Wales Debt and minority share interests Operations Operations Key Features of the DLC Structure Reuters PLC ordinary shares are admitted to the ofcial list of the U. K. Listing Authority and to trading on the LSEs main market Below is a description of the key features of the DLC structure.
The ADSs, each representing six Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares, are listed on the Nasdaq Global SEPARATE ENTITIES AND LISTINGS Select Market.
Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC Thomson Reuters Corporation is included in the S&P TSX series maintain separate stock exchange listings.
Thomson Reuters of indices and Thomson Reuters PLC is included in the FTSE Corporation common shares are listed on the TSX and the NYSE U. K. series of indices.
and the Series II preference shares are listed on the TSX.
Thomson 116 THOMSON REUTERS UNIFIED BOARD AND MANAGEMENT Matching Actions The boards of directors of Thomson Reuters Corporation and If Thomson Reuters Corporation takes any action, other than Thomson Reuters PLC are comprised of the same individuals, as paying a cash dividend, that would provide a holder of its common are the companies executive management.
The two companies shares with an economic benefit or an adjustment to its voting pursue business objectives established by our board of directors rights in relation to Joint Electorate Actions, which are discussed and management, who evaluate these strategies and other below or which would otherwise disadvantage a holder of a operational decisions from the perspective of Thomson Reuters Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary share relative to a holder of a as a whole.
Thomson Reuters Corporation common share, then Thomson Reuters PLC must undertake a Matching Action to ensure that We deploy and manage our capital and assets in a way which our the economic benets and voting rights of shareholders of each board considers most beneficial to Thomson Reuters.
Our assets company are maintained in proportion to the then prevailing are owned, directly or indirectly, by Thomson Reuters Corporation Equalization Ratio.
Alternatively, an appropriate adjustment to the or Thomson Reuters PLC, depending on what we believe is most Equalization Ratio must be made to ensure that there is equitable efficient and appropriate under the then prevailing circumstances.
treatment with regard to the then prevailing Equalization Ratio Under the DLC structure, we may transfer assets between the for a holder of one Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary share relative two companies from time to time.
These transfers are considered to a holder of one Thomson Reuters Corporation common share.
to be in the ordinary course of business and may be made without shareholder approval.
Thomson Reuters PLC may not make any distribution of capital or income or take any other action that would provide a holder EQUALIZATION OF ECONOMIC AND VOTING INTERESTS of a Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary share with an economic benefit or an adjustment to its voting rights in relation to Joint Equalization Principles Electorate Actions or which would otherwise disadvantage a holder of a Thomson Reuters Corporation common share relative The Equalization and Governance Agreement requires that Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC observe to a holder of a Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary share other certain principles to ensure that the economic and voting rights than as a Matching Action.
of holders of Thomson Reuters Corporation common shares and Cross Guarantees Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares are equivalent.
These principles are briey described below.
Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC have each guaranteed all contractual obligations of the other company, An Equalization Ratio determines the economic and voting and those of other parties to the extent they are guaranteed by interests represented by a Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary share the other company, and will guarantee other obligations as relative to a Thomson Reuters Corporation common share.
We refer to these as cross guarantees.
Thomson Reuters Equalization Ratio is currently 1:1.
As a result, one Thomson PLC has also guaranteed all contractual obligations of Reuters Reuters PLC ordinary share has equivalent rights to distributions Group PLC existing as of April 17, 2008 and, as a result, those of income and capital and voting rights as one Thomson Reuters obligations are covered by Thomson Reuters Corporations Corporation common share.
guarantee of Thomson Reuters PLCs obligations.
Dividends and Distributions Creditors of Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC entitled to the benefit of the cross guarantees have been, If Thomson Reuters Corporation declares or pays a cash dividend to holders of its common shares, then Thomson Reuters PLC to the extent possible, placed in the same position as if the must declare or pay to holders of its ordinary shares a cash obligations were owed by Thomson Reuters.
In light of these cross guarantees, each of Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson dividend in an equivalent amount per share.
The equivalent cash Reuters PLC is exposed to the credit risk of the other.
Accordingly, dividend is calculated before deduction of any withholding taxes or tax payable by or on behalf of, and disregarding any tax both companies share the same credit rating.
benefit available to, a shareholder of Thomson Reuters.
Insolvency Thomson Reuters PLC may not declare or pay a cash dividend In the event that Thomson Reuters PLC is, or is likely to become, unless Thomson Reuters Corporation first declares or pays a cash insolvent, Thomson Reuters Corporation must ensure that the dividend.
If Thomson Reuters PLC is prohibited by applicable laws economic returns made or otherwise available to holders of its from declaring or paying or is otherwise unable to declare or pay common shares and Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares are the equivalent cash dividend, Thomson Reuters Corporation and proportional in relation to the Equalization Ratio.
This is referred Thomson Reuters PLC must, to the extent practicable, enter into to as Economic Equivalence.
such transactions as are necessary to enable Thomson Reuters In that event, Thomson Reuters Corporation has the right either PLC to pay the dividend.
to offer Thomson Reuters Corporation common shares to holders Thomson Reuters Corporation has issued an equalization share of Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares in exchange for their to Thomson Reuters PLC.
If Thomson Reuters Corporation is Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares or to make a payment to required to make an equalization payment to Thomson Reuters holders of Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares, in either case, PLC or is required to take action and elects to do so by means in such amount and in such proportion to ensure that Economic of a payment to Thomson Reuters PLC, then Thomson Reuters Equivalence is achieved.
If Thomson Reuters Corporation does not Corporation will make this payment as a dividend on the exercise this right, then Thomson Reuters Corporation must make equalization share, unless the board of directors of Thomson payments to the creditors of Thomson Reuters PLC and then to Reuters Corporation decides to make such payment by Thomson Reuters PLC so that Economic Equivalence is achieved.
ANNUAL REPORT 2008 117 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION If both Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC Procedural Resolutions.
Procedural or technical resolutions are insolvent, and if Thomson Reuters Corporation has surplus do not constitute either Joint Electorate Actions or Class Rights assets available for distribution to Thomson Reuters Corporation Actions and will be voted on separately by the relevant shareholders after the payment of all debts, then Thomson Thomson Reuters Corporation shareholders or Thomson Reuters Corporation will pay a liquidation distribution to the Reuters PLC shareholders.
holders of Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares which is Special Voting Shares equivalent on a per share basis in accordance with the Equalization Ratio.
To effect the voting arrangements described above, Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC have each issued As the cross guarantees expose each company to the credit risk a special voting share to a special voting trust so that shareholders of the other, we believe that any insolvency would affect Thomson of the two companies can ordinarily vote together as a single Reuters as a whole rather than either Thomson Reuters Corporation decision-making body.
The special voting trust exercises voting or Thomson Reuters PLC alone.
rights at one companys shareholder meeting so as to give effect Support Arrangements to the voting results recorded at the other companys parallel shareholder meeting.
Although Thomson Reuters Corporation is obligated to support Thomson Reuters PLC regarding dividends and other cashFor Joint Electorate Actions, the Thomson Reuters Corporation distributions and in the event of the insolvency of Thomson special voting share carries the number of votes cast at the Reuters PLC, Thomson Reuters PLC does not have any reciprocal parallel meeting of Thomson Reuters PLC shareholders as obligations in favor of Thomson Reuters Corporation.
These adjusted by the Equalization Ratio and rounded up to the arrangements have been structured to avoid adverse Canadian nearest whole number and the Thomson Reuters PLC special income tax treatment of dividends paid and received on Thomson voting share carries the number of votes cast at the parallel Reuters Corporation common shares.
We do not consider these meeting of Thomson Reuters Corporation shareholders as arrangements to be material to holders of Thomson Reuters adjusted by the Equalization Ratio and rounded up to the Corporation common shares or Thomson Reuters PLC nearest whole number.
For Class Rights Actions, the special voting shares carry voting As we declare dividends from the perspective of Thomson Reuters rights only if the proposed action has not been approved at the taken as a whole, we do not believe that Thomson Reuters parallel meeting of the Thomson Reuters PLC shareholders or Corporations support obligation affects in any way the dividends Thomson Reuters Corporation shareholders, as the case may or other cash distributions available to holders of either Thomson be.
In that event, the special voting shares carry such number Reuters Corporation common shares or Thomson Reuters PLC of votes in respect of the proposed action as would be sufficient ordinary shares.
These voting rights reect the requirement that Class Rights Actions be approved by the shareholders of each Voting Arrangements of Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC voting separately.
Under the DLC structure, holders of Thomson Reuters Corporation common shares and Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares Neither special voting share carries any voting rights on Procedural ordinarily vote together as a single decision-making body.
Procedural Resolutions are voted on separately by the put to shareholders are classied as one of the following: relevant companys shareholders.
Thomson Reuters Corporation Equivalent Treatment in Relation to Take-Overs shareholders and Thomson Reuters PLC shareholders vote together as a single decision-making body on all matters other We believe it is essential to the operation of the DLC structure that than those which constitute Class Rights Actions or holders of Thomson Reuters Corporation common shares and Procedural Resolutions.
These matters are called Joint Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares are treated on an equivalent Electorate Actions and include the election of directors, the basis in the event of any take-over bid or similar transaction.
appointment of auditors and the approval and receipt of Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC may only financial statements and reports.
accept, approve or recommend a Qualied Take-Over Bid.
On specified matters where the interests A Qualied Take-Over Bid means an offer or offers, made at of Thomson Reuters Corporation shareholders and Thomson or about the same time, to all holders of Thomson Reuters Reuters PLC shareholders may diverge, the shareholders of Corporation common shares and Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary each company vote separately.
These matters are called Class shares to acquire all of the outstanding common shares and Rights Actions and include: i the voluntary liquidation of ordinary shares, which are equivalent in all material respects to the either company: ii any adjustment to the Equalization Ratio holders, including with respect to the consideration offered, the other than in accordance with the Equalization and Governance information provided to the holders, the time available to consider Agreement: iii any amendment to, or termination of, the the offers and the conditions to which the offers are subject.
contractual arrangements giving effect to the DLC structure: If any person acquires 20% or more Thomson Reuters Corporation and iv any amendment to the provisions of our organizational common shares, 30% or more Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary documents giving effect to the DLC structure.
Matters that are shares, or 30% or more of the total voting interests in Thomson Class Rights Actions may not be implemented unless they have Reuters in respect of a Joint Electorate Action, that acquisition been approved by the requisite majority of the votes cast by the would be considered a Triggering Event.
Upon the occurrence Thomson Reuters Corporation shareholders and Thomson of a Triggering Event, we must take all actions that our board of Reuters PLC shareholders voting separately.
directors believes are necessary or appropriate to procure that the person makes a Qualied Take-Over Bid, unless the acquisition is exempt from the take-over bid provisions of applicable laws and 118 THOMSON REUTERS
