156 Investor information History and development of the Company Website Tomkins plc was incorporated in England in 1925 as The Companys website address is www.
All of F. H. Tomkins Buckle Company Limited, a small manufacturer of the Companys recent results announcements and press buckles and fasteners, which it remained until the 1980s.
It releases are accessible on our website, together with this and was converted from a private company into a public company previous Annual Reports and provides direct links to the in March 1950, re-registered as a public limited company in websites of the Groups main operating companies.
February 1982, and changed its name to Tomkins plc in 1988.
The price of the Companys ordinary shares and its ADRs is also In the late 1980s, the Company made a number of acquisitions available, with a 20-minute delay.
In addition, the site also of engineering companies in both the UK and the US.
In 1992, provides historic share price information, index comparators the Group diversified into food manufacturing, with the and a shareholding calculator tool.
acquisition of Ranks Hovis McDougall plc in the UK.
In 1996, the Group established the Industrial & Automotive ADR holders business group with the acquisition of The Gates Corporation Ordinary shares in Tomkins plc are listed on the London Stock in the US.
Exchange and, in the form of ADSs, on the NYSE.
ADSs, each representing four ordinary shares, are evidenced by ADRs In 1997, management embarked on a long-term programme issued by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. as Depositary, pursuant of disposing of non-core businesses and enhanced its to a sponsored ADR programme.
The Companys ADSs have remaining core businesses through a number of bolt-on been listed on the NYSE since February 1995, prior to which acquisitions.
In the early 2000s, the Group disposed of its Food they were quoted on NASDAQ from November 1988.
Manufacturing and Professional, Garden and Leisure Products business groups and became focused on its two remaining Tomkins is subject to the regulations of the SEC as they apply business groups: Industrial & Automotive and Building to foreign companies and files with the SEC its Annual Report Products.
on Form 20-F and provides other information as required.
ADR holders are not members of the Company but may instruct the Industrial & Automotive manufactures a wide range of systems Depositary as to the exercise of voting rights pertaining to the and components for car, truck and industrial equipment number of ordinary shares represented by their ADRs.
ADR manufacturing markets, and industrial and automotive holders with queries about their holdings should contact the aftermarkets throughout the world.
Industrial & Automotive is Depositary, whose contact details are provided on page 165. comprised of four operating segments: Power Transmission, Fluid Power, Fluid Systems and Other Industrial & Automotive.
Industrial & Automotive acquired Stant Corporation and its Trading symbols subsidiaries 1997, Schrader-Bridgeport 1998, ACD Tridon On the London Stock Exchange, the Companys SEDOL number 1999 and Stackpole 2003, and disposed of Trico 2007 and is 0896265 ISIN code GB0008962655 and its trading symbol Stant Corporation 2008. is TOMK.
On the NYSE, the Companys trading symbol for its ADRs is TKS.
Building Products is comprised of two operating segments: Air Systems Components and Other Building Products.
Air Systems Components supplies the industrial and residential HVAC Share price information market mainly in North America.
Other Building Products The high and low closing prices of the ordinary shares on the manufactures a variety of products for the building and London Stock Exchange and the ADSs on the NYSE for the construction industries, mainly in North America.
periods indicated are set out below.
The tables do not reflect Building Products was based on the acquisition of Philips trading after the daily official close of the London Stock Industries 1990 and acquired Hart & Cooley 1999, Ruskin Exchange for which no official quotations exist.
Air Management 2000 and Selkirk 2006, and disposed of Lasco Fittings 2007.
Five-year annual prices Pence per ordinary share US dollars per ADS Incorporation High Low High Low Tomkins plc is incorporated in England and Wales and is 2004 287.50 241.75 20.53 17.96 registered with the Registrar of Companies in England & Wales 2005 302.50 242.00 22.43 18.51 under number 203531.
2007 302.50 172.50 23.92 13.75 2008 194.75 93.50 15.09 5.29 Additional information 157 Investor information Based on an analysis of our share register as at 3 February 2009, Two-year quarterly prices the shareholders holding more than 5% of the Companys Pence per ordinary share US dollars per ADS outstanding ordinary shares were as follows: High Low High Low Percentage 2007 Number of of issued ordinary ordinary shares Q1 280.50 244.50 22.35 18.97 shares held held Q2 302.50 253.75 23.92 19.96 Q3 267.50 214.50 21.65 17.12 Schroder Investment Management 88,315,883 9.99% Q4 233.50 172.50 18.97 13.75 2008 This information has been based on an analysis of the shares Q1 189.50 150.75 15.01 12.19 held on Tomkins share register and differs from the table of Q2 194.75 151.25 15.09 12.01 substantial shareholdings on page 47 which shows voting Q3 172.25 115.50 12.67 9.32 rights officially notified under the Disclosure and Transparency Q4 154.75 93.50 11.07 5.29 Rules of the UKLA.
2009 Significant changes in shareholders owning more than 5% of 1 Q1 141.00 112.50 8.37 6.31 the ordinary share capital of the Company over the past three years were as follows: 1 Covering the period up to and including 19 February 2009.
Invesco Limited decreased their holding to 0.83% at 19 February 2009 from 7.17% at 3 April 2008, having held 5.15% as at 13 April 2007 and 0.66% at 24 April 2006.
Most recent monthly prices Nuveen Investment LLC decreased their holding to 4.57% at Pence per ordinary share US dollars per ADS 19 February 2009 from 6.44% at 3 April 2008, having held High Low High Low 10.40% at 13 April 2007 and 4.91% at 24 April 2006.
December 128.50 105.50 7.83 6.04 January 141.00 117.75 8.37 6.61 There are no arrangements currently known to the Company 1 February 133.00 112.50 7.84 6.31 that would result in a change in control of the Company.
1 Covering the period up to and including 19 February 2009.
Purchases of ordinary shares The table below sets out details of shares repurchased by the Company and affiliated purchasers in 2008 under publicly Substantial shareholdings announced plans or programmes.
The Companys issued share capital as at 3 January 2009 Maximum consisted of 884,151,772 ordinary shares with a nominal value number of of 9 cents each.
Number Average shares that of shares price paid may yet be As at 19 February 2009, 884,151,772 ordinary shares were purchased per share purchased outstanding.
As at that date, 2,232,599 ordinary shares were March 2008 950,000 153.42p 87,460,677 held by 71 registered holders with a registered address in the June 2008 310,000 167.04p 87,150,677 US and 65,422 ADRs were held by 149 registered holders with September 2008 210,000 159.90p 86,940,677 a registered address in the US.
Since certain of the ordinary shares and ADRs were held by brokers and nominees, the Total 1,470,000 number of record holders in the US may not be representative of the number of beneficial holders or of where the beneficial holders are resident.
At the Companys AGM on 13 June 2007, shareholders approved a resolution allowing the Company to repurchase up Ordinary shareholders of the Company do not have different to 85,829,110 ordinary shares of the Company.
expired at a further AGM of the Company held on 1 May 2008, To the Companys knowledge, no person or entity other than at which shareholders approved a resolution allowing the those shown below is the owner of more than 5% of its Company to repurchase up to 88,410,677 ordinary shares of outstanding ordinary shares, nor is the Company directly or the Company.
This approval will expire on 1 May 2009.
All indirectly owned or controlled by any corporation, by any shares repurchased in the period were purchased in order that government or by any other natural or legal person or persons, they can, at the relevant time, be allocated to employees under severally or jointly.
158 Investor information continued The main objects and purposes of the Company, set out in Purchases of ordinary shares continued Articles 4 a to c of the Memorandum of Association, are As at 29 December 2007, the Company held 4,205,841 ordinary as follows: shares purchased as part of its publicly announced plan.
During 2008, 2,053,809 ordinary shares were transferred to to co-ordinate and manage the business activities of the employees under the Companys ABIP.
As at 3 January 2009, Company and generally to carry out the function of a group the Company held 3,658,550 of its own ordinary shares.
holding company: to carry on the business of hardware manufacture and the Directors Report and accounts Companies House manufacture of and dealing in minerals and metals, and all kinds of other connected goods: and Subject to the passing of the resolution to receive the financial statements that will be proposed at the Companys AGM on to carry on any other business of a similar nature which the 1 June 2009, a copy of the Annual Report omitting Directors deem convenient for the Company to carry on, or photographic representations and with such further consider will enhance or render more profitable the value of modifications as may be necessary will be lodged with the the Companys property.
Registrar of Companies in England & Wales in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended.
After being so lodged, Board of Directors further copies of the Annual Report in the form sent to The Articles provide for a minimum of two and a maximum of shareholders will be available from the Company Secretary 15 Directors.
The shareholders may change these limits by upon request.
The Articles do not contain any requirement for a Director to hold qualification shares.
At each AGM, the following shall retire: Documents on display The Company is subject to the information requirements of the any Director appointed by the Board since the last general Exchange Act and in accordance therewith files reports and meeting: other information with the SEC.
These reports and other any Director who held office at the time of the two preceding information can be inspected and copied at the public AGMs and who did not retire at either of them: and reference facilities maintained by the SEC, 100 F Street, N. E. Washington, D. C. 20549, and at the SECs regional office at any Director who has been in office, other than as a Director Citicorp Center, 500 West Madison Street, Suite 1400, holding an executive position, for a continuous period of nine Chicago, Illinois 60661.
You may request copies of all or a years or more at the date of the meeting.
portion of these documents from the Public Reference Section Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the of the SEC at 100 F Street, N. E. Washington, D. C. 20549, at Board may from time to time appoint one or more Directors to prescribed rates.
Reports filed by the Company with the SEC an executive office on such terms and for such period as it may since August 2002 are available on the SECs website at determine.
The Articles contain no age limit requirements for www.
the retirement or non-retirement of Directors.
As a foreign private issuer, the Company is exempt under the The Articles allow the Directors to authorise conflicts of interest Exchange Act from, among other things, the rules prescribing and potential conflicts of interest, where appropriate, and the furnishing and content of proxy statements and the contain other provisions for dealing with Directors conflicts of reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained interest to avoid a breach of duty.
in section 16 of the Exchange Act.
There are safeguards which will apply when the Directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
Memorandum and Articles of Association First, only Directors who have no interest in the matter being General considered will be able to take the relevant decision and, The rights of the shareholders are set out in the Articles of the secondly, in taking the decision, the Directors must act in a way Company and are provided by applicable English law.
The they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the following summary of key provisions of the Articles is qualified Companys success.
The Directors will be able to impose limits in its entirety by reference to the Articles filed as Exhibit 1.1 to or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is the Companys annual report filing with the SEC on Form 20-F. appropriate.
The Articles contain provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at Board meetings and availability of Board papers to protect a Director being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict has previously been authorised by the Directors.
Additional information 159 Investor information A Director who has disclosed to the Board that he or she has On a show of hands, each holder of ordinary shares present at an interest in any transaction or arrangement with the a general meeting of the Company is entitled to one vote.
On Company, may participate in such transaction or arrangement, a poll, the holders of ordinary shares are entitled to one vote but may not vote in respect of any such transaction.
Cumulative voting is not permitted.
may not be counted in the quorum of a meeting in relation to Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is any resolution on which he is barred from voting.
appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or Directors ordinary remuneration other than an Executive shares held by the shareholder.
Director may not exceed 250,000 per annum as the Board The deferred shares are not listed on any investment exchange or any duly authorised committee thereof may from time to and have extremely limited rights such that they effectively time determine or such greater amount as the Company may, have no value.
The deferred shares are currently held by the upon the recommendation of the Board, from time to time by Company Secretary.
Any Director who by arrangement with the Board performs or renders any special duties or Following the implementation of section 542 of the services outside his ordinary duties as a Director may be Companies Act 2006 on 1 October 2009, the Company will no awarded extra remuneration in addition to fees or ordinary longer be required to have any share capital denominated in remuneration by way of salary or commission or participation sterling.
Accordingly, the Company intends to buy back and in profits or otherwise.
cancel the deferred shares as soon as practicable after 1 October 2009.
The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, mortgage property and assets and issue There are no provisions in the Articles discriminating against an debentures and other securities.
The Articles require the Board existing or prospective holder of securities as a result of such to restrict aggregate borrowings of the Company to one and a shareholder owning a substantial number of shares.
half times the share capital of the Company plus capital reserves calculated as set forth in the Articles.
General meetings The Company shall in each year hold a general meeting of Share capital, dividends and voting rights shareholders within six months of its accounting reference The authorised share capital of the Company is $142,664,780 date.
The Board may call an extraordinary general meeting divided into 1,585,164,220 ordinary shares with a nominal whenever it determines appropriate.
In addition, members value of 9 cents each and 50,000 divided into 50,000 deferred holding not less than one-tenth of the voting rights of the shares with a nominal value of 1 each.
share capital entitled to vote at a general meeting of the Company can require an extraordinary general meeting to Under section 21 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company be convened.
may by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders alter its Articles and thereby alter the rights of the shareholders Only shareholders registered in accordance with the Articles of the Company.
A special resolution is a resolution that can may be recognised as valid shareholders.
There are no other only be passed by a majority of no less than three-quarters of limitations on the rights to own securities.
the shares entitled to vote that are voted.
Whenever the share There are no provisions in the Articles that would have the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control shares, the rights attached to any class may only be varied or of the Company and that would operate only with respect to a abrogated either with the consent in writing of the holders merger, acquisition, or corporate restructuring involving the of three-quarters of the issued shares of that class or with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of such holders.
The Articles provide that the necessary Disclosure of ownership quorum for a meeting at which such a special resolution may There are no provisions in the Articles relating to the ownership be passed is at least two persons holding or representing by threshold above which shareholder ownership must be proxy no less than one-third in nominal amount of the issued disclosed.
The Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UKLA shares of that class.
require a shareholder to notify the Company in respect of a The Company in a general meeting of shareholders may 3% holding subject to certain exemptions, and there is an declare dividends on the ordinary shares in its discretion by additional obligation to notify the Company when a 10% reference to an amount in sterling or in a foreign currency, but threshold is reached which is not subject to any exemptions.
dividends may not exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
Dividends remaining unclaimed for 12 years after having been declared are forfeited and revert to the Company.
160 Investor information continued Changes in capital Individual Savings Accounts ISAs There are no conditions imposed by the Articles governing A Tomkins ISA enables UK residents to invest in the Company changes in capital that are more stringent than those in a tax efficient manner.
You can obtain more information on conditions that would be required by governing English law.
ISAs from our corporate ISA provider, Equiniti Limited, whose contact details are provided on page 165.
Registrar Administrative enquiries concerning shareholdings in Tomkins Patents, trademarks and contracts plc, such as loss of a share certificate, dividend payment Trademarks and trade names are identified with a number of instructions, or a change of address, or the amalgamation of the Groups products and services and are of importance in the multiple holdings should be notified direct to the Companys sale and marketing of those products and services.
However, Registrar, Equiniti Limited, whose contact details for general the Group is not dependent to any significant degree upon enquiries are provided on page 165. these trademarks and trade names, nor on any single or series of related patents, licenses, financial or commercial contracts.
Any correspondence with the Registrar should refer to Tomkins plc, quoting the reference 0398, and state the registered name and address of the shareholder.
Government laws and regulations The Company's subsidiaries and many of our products are Payment of dividends regulated by government authorities in a number of countries.
Dividends are declared and paid in US dollars although, unless The Company's subsidiaries are subject to regulation under they elect otherwise, shareholders in the UK and the Republic various and changing local, national and international laws and of Ireland will receive dividends in sterling.
Shareholders who regulations relating to the environment, business practice and have mandated their dividends to be credited to a nominated employee health and safety.
Permits may be required for bank or building society account should note that dividends certain operations particularly air emission permits and these are paid automatically to their account through the Bankers permits are subject to renewal, modification and, in certain Automated Clearing Services BACS with the associated tax circumstances, revocation.
Some of the applicable regulations voucher being sent direct to shareholders at their registered allow local or national authorities to mandate product recalls or address unless requested otherwise.
If the nominated account seize products.
is with a bank or building society which is not a member of Our products are subject to regulations relating to production BACS, both the payment and tax voucher are sent to the including environmental regulations, sale, advertising, safety, account holding branch.
Shareholders who do not currently mandate their dividends Management believes that the Companys subsidiaries are in and who wish to have their dividend paid direct to a bank or substantial compliance with applicable laws and regulations building society account should complete a dividend mandate and that appropriate controls have been implemented by instruction form obtainable from the Companys Registrar, subsidiaries to minimise the risk of non-compliance.
whose contact details with regard to the payment of dividends are provided on page 165.
Exchange controls Dividend Reinvestment Plan There is currently no English law, decree or regulation that restricts the export or import of capital, including, but not The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
This allows limited to, UK foreign exchange controls, or that affects the shareholders to invest their cash dividend in purchasing shares remittance of dividends except as otherwise set out under of the Company in the market.
The Companys Registrar Taxation below or other payments to holders of ordinary arranges, on behalf of participants, through the agency of a shares.
There are no limitations under English law or the suitably authorised stockbroking business, the purchase of the Companys Articles on the rights of persons who are neither maximum whole number of ordinary shares possible on, or as residents nor nationals of the UK from freely holding, voting soon as reasonably practicable after, the dividend payment or transferring ordinary shares in the same manner as date.
Favourable dealing costs have been arranged.
For further UK residents or nationals.
details or an application form, please contact the Registrars Dividend Reinvestment Plan team, whose contact details are provided on page 165.
Additional information 161 Investor information HM Revenue & Customs should treat US Holders of ADSs as Taxation the owners of the underlying ordinary shares for the purpose The following is a summary of the principal US federal income of the taxation of dividend payments under the Tax Convention.
and UK tax consequences of the purchase, ownership and US Holders of ADSs are also treated as the owners of the disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs by certain US Holders underlying shares for the purposes of the Code.
as defined below and not a complete analysis or listing of all of the possible tax consequences of such purchase, ownership or disposition.
Furthermore, this summary does not address the Taxation of dividends tax consequences under state, local, or non-US or non-UK tax The gross amount of distributions in respect of the Companys law of such purchase, ownership or disposition, or the ordinary shares or ADSs will be included in the gross income of US federal estate or gift tax consequences thereof.
Certain US Holders and treated as dividends to the extent of the US Holders with special status e. g. banks and financial Companys current and accumulated earnings and profits, as institutions, insurance companies, tax-exempt entities, dealers determined under US federal income tax principles.
Such in securities, and traders in securities that mark-to-market or dividends will not qualify for the dividends received deduction in special tax situations e. g. whose functional currency is not available in certain circumstances to corporate holders.
the US dollar, who hold their ordinary shares or ADSs as part of Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and a straddle, appreciated financial position, hedge, conversion profits will be treated as a return of capital to the extent of a transaction or other integrated investment, who hold directly, US Holders adjusted tax basis in the ordinary shares or ADSs indirectly or through attribution 10% or more of the voting and, thereafter, as capital gains.
power of the Companys shares, or who are subject to the alternative minimum tax will be subject to special rules not For taxable years that begin before 2011, qualified dividend described below.
This summary is limited to US Holders that income as defined below paid by the Company generally will hold their ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets and does be taxable to non-corporate US Holders at the 15% reduced not address the tax treatment of US Holders that are rate.
For this purpose, except as described below, dividends partnerships or pass-through entities that are not partnerships paid by the Company will be qualified dividend income and or the tax treatment of the holders of interests in such entities.
taxable at the reduced rate, if shares in the Company are The following summary of US federal income and UK tax readily tradable on an established securities market in the US, consequences is not exhaustive of all possible tax including NYSE and NASDAQ, or if the Company is eligible for considerations and should not be considered legal or tax benefits of a comprehensive income tax treaty with the US advice.
Prospective investors are therefore advised to consult which the US Secretary of the Treasury has determined is their own professional tax advisers with respect to the tax satisfactory for this purpose and which includes a provision for consequences of the purchase, ownership and disposition of the exchange of information.
The US Secretary of the Treasury ordinary shares or ADSs, including specifically the has determined that the Tax Convention qualifies as a consequences under state, local and tax laws.
comprehensive income tax treaty for this purpose.
Dividends paid by a foreign corporation will not constitute qualified This summary is based upon the Code, Treasury regulations dividend income, however, if that corporation is treated, for promulgated under the Code, the Tax Convention, and the tax year in which the dividend is paid or the preceding tax administrative and judicial interpretations thereof, all as in year, as a PFIC for US federal income tax purposes.
In addition, effect as of the date of this Annual Report and all of which US Holders will be eligible for the reduced rate only if they are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect.
have held the ordinary shares or ADSs for more than 60 days Statements regarding UK tax laws and practices set out below during the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the exare based on those UK laws and published practices of dividend date and satisfy certain other requirements.
HM Revenue & Customs as at the date of this Annual Report which UK laws and practices are subject to change, again US Holders will not be subject to UK withholding tax on any possibly with retroactive effect.
As used herein, a US Holder dividends paid in respect of ordinary shares.
Provided that is a beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that, for dividends paid in respect of ADSs are treated as distributions US federal tax purposes, is: for UK tax purposes, such dividends will not be subject to UK withholding tax.
a citizen or resident of the US: a corporation, or other entity treated as a corporation for Foreign currency dividends US federal income tax purposes created or organised in the US or under the laws of the US or any state thereof or the For US federal income tax purposes, any dividend paid in District of Columbia : foreign currency will be included in income in a US dollar amount equal to the US dollar value of such foreign currency an estate the income of which is subject to US federal calculated by reference to the exchange rate in effect on the income taxation regardless of its source: day the dividends are actually or constructively received by the US Holders, regardless of whether the foreign currency is a trust if a court within the US is able to exercise primary converted into US dollars at that time.
US Holders will generally supervision over the administration of the trust and one or have a basis in the foreign currency equal to its US dollar value more US persons have the authority to control all substantial on the date of actual or constructive receipt.
Any gain or loss decisions of the trust: or realised by the US Holders on subsequent conversion or other a trust if it has a valid election in effect to be treated as a disposition of the foreign currency will be treated as US source US person under the Code.
162 Investor information continued PFIC status Taxation of capital gains The Company believes that it will not be considered a PFIC for Corporate US Holders that are resident in the US and not US federal income tax purposes.
However, since the Companys resident in the UK for UK tax purposes will not generally be status as a PFIC depends on the composition of its income and liable for UK corporation tax on capital gains realised on the assets and the market value of its assets from time to time, sale or other disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs unless a there can be no assurance that it will not be considered a PFIC specific Corporate US Holder carries on a trade in the UK in any taxable year.
through a permanent establishment and the ordinary shares or ADSs are or have been used, held or acquired for the purposes US shareholders in a company classified as a PFIC have certain of such trade through such permanent establishment.
In determining a companys corporate US Holders that are resident in the US and are PFIC status for a taxable year, two tests must be applied, as neither resident nor ordinarily resident in the UK for UK tax well as certain look-through rules.
If 75% or more of a purposes will not generally be liable for UK tax on capital gains companys gross income including the pro-rata gross income realised on the sale or other disposal of ordinary shares or of any company in which such company is considered to own ADSs unless a specific non-corporate US Holder carries on a 25% or more of the stock by value for the taxable year is trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or passive, it is considered a PFIC.
Alternatively, if 50% or more of agency and the ordinary shares or ADSs are or have been used, its gross assets including the pro-rata value of the assets of held or acquired for the purposes of such trade, profession or any company in which such company is considered to own vocation through such branch or agency.
25% or more of the stock by value during the taxable year, based on their average value, are either held for the production Notwithstanding the foregoing, an individual US Holder who is of or produce passive income, it is considered a PFIC.
In this neither resident nor ordinarily resident in the UK for UK tax instance, passive income commonly includes dividends, purposes for a period of less than five years, but who was interest, royalties, rents, annuities, gains from commodities and previously resident or ordinarily resident in the UK, and who securities transactions, and the excess of gains over losses from disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs during the period of nonthe disposition of assets which produce passive income unless residence may also be liable on returning to the UK for UK tax the 25% look-through rules otherwise apply.
on capital gains despite the fact that the individual was not resident or ordinarily resident in the UK for UK tax purposes at If the Company were treated as a PFIC in a taxable year, a the time of the disposal.
US Holder may be subject to particular adverse tax consequences.
The receipt of certain excess distributions, as well as the US Holders will generally recognise capital gain or loss for disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs, could trigger increased US federal income tax purposes upon the sale or other disposal tax liability.
Gain or excess distribution would be allocated of such US Holders ordinary shares or ADSs in an amount among the tax years of the shareholders holding period from equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the the time the entity was determined to be a PFIC.
The portion amount realised on the sale or other disposal and the US Holders allocable to prior years would be taxed at the highest marginal adjusted tax basis, determined in US dollars, in such ordinary US federal tax rate and would be subject to an interest charge.
Such gains or losses will be eligible for longterm capital gain or loss treatment if the ordinary shares or Certain elections may enable the shareholder in a PFIC to avoid ADSs have been held for more than one year at the time of some of these adverse tax consequences.
Under the QEF such sale or disposal.
Long-term capital gains of individuals are election, a US shareholder is taxed currently on its share of the eligible for reduced rates of taxation.
The deductibility of companys ordinary income.
Under the mark-to-market capital losses is subject to limitations.
In general, any gain or election, a US shareholder recognises gains or losses each year loss recognised by a US Holder on the sale or other disposition for the difference between the fair market value and the of ordinary shares or ADSs will be US-source income or loss for adjusted basis of his or her shares.
US Holders should consult purposes of US federal foreign tax credit limitation.
their tax advisers for further details of the restrictions and coverage of each election and the potential tax consequences arising from the ownership and disposition of an interest in a PFIC.
Additional information 163 Investor information Following the issue or transfer of ordinary shares to the UK inheritance tax custodian of the Depositary, no SDRT will generally be payable Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, ordinary shares or on the issue of ADSs or on an agreement to transfer ADSs, nor ADSs will generally not be subject to UK inheritance tax upon should UK stamp duty be payable on a transfer of ADSs, an individuals death or on a transfer of the ordinary shares or provided, amongst other things, that the instrument of transfer ADSs during the individuals lifetime if it is held by an individual is executed and retained outside the UK.
A transfer of ordinary who is domiciled in the US and is not treated as domiciled in shares by the Depositary or its nominee to the relevant the UK and is not a national of the UK.
In certain other cases ADS holder when the ADS holder is not transferring beneficial where the individual is domiciled in the US and is treated ownership will generally not be liable to a stamp duty charge as domiciled in the UK, the individual may be subject to or to the principal 0.5% SDRT charge.
Also, an individual will be subject to UK inheritance tax in the exceptional case in which ordinary shares or ADSs are part of the business property of a UK US backup withholding and information reporting permanent establishment or pertains to a fixed base of the Payments of dividends and other proceeds with respect to individual in the UK used for the performance of independent ordinary shares or ADSs made within the US by a US paying personal services.
In the unusual case where ordinary shares or agent or other US intermediary will be reported to the IRS and ADSs are subject to both the UK inheritance tax and the to the US Holders as may be required under applicable US federal estate and gift tax, the Estate and Gift Tax Convention regulations unless a specific US Holder is a corporation or generally provides for a tax credit under the rules enumerated otherwise establishes a basis for exemption.
Backup in the Estate and Gift Tax Convention.
withholding may apply to reportable payments if the US Holders fail to provide an accurate taxpayer identification UK stamp duty or SDRT number or otherwise fails to comply with, or establish an exemption from, such backup withholding requirements.
UK stamp duty or SDRT is not generally payable on the The amount of any backup withholding from a payment to issuance of ordinary shares except see below regarding the a US Holder will be allowed as a credit against his or her issue of ordinary shares to the custodian of the Depositary.
US federal income tax liability and any excess amounts will be The transfer of ordinary shares will generally give rise to a refundable, if the US Holder provides the required information liability to UK stamp duty at the rate of 0.5% rounded up to to the IRS.
US Holders should consult their tax advisers as to the next multiple of 5 of the amount or value of the their qualification for exemption from backup withholding and consideration paid.
SDRT is generally chargeable at the same the procedure for obtaining an exemption.
rate on entering into an unconditional agreement to transfer ordinary shares or upon a conditional agreement to transfer ordinary shares becoming unconditional.
However, such SDRT Share dealing is cancelled or repaid if the agreement is completed within For UK residents, internet and telephone share dealing services six years of the date of the unconditional agreement or the have been arranged through Equiniti Limited which provide a date on which the conditional agreement became unconditional simple way to buy or sell the Companys ordinary shares.
For by a duly stamped transfer instrument.
Where an instrument internet dealing, existing shareholders should log on to of transfer of ordinary shares is executed where there is no www.
You will need your account number change of beneficial ownership, it will generally not be subject shown on your share certificate or tax voucher.
The to UK stamp duty or to the principal 0.5% SDRT charge.
commission rate for internet dealing is 1% with a minimum The issuance of ordinary shares to the custodian of the charge of 20.
For telephone dealing, please call 0845 603 Depositary will generally give rise to an SDRT liability at 1.5% 7037 between 8.30 am and 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday: the of the issue price.
The transfer of ordinary shares to the commission rate for share transactions by telephone is 1.5% custodian of the Depositary will generally give rise to either with a minimum charge of 25.
UK stamp duty at the rate of 1.5% of the value of the ordinary A weekly postal dealing service is also available and a form, shares transferred rounded up to the next multiple of 5 or, in together with terms and conditions, can be obtained by calling the unlikely event that there is no transfer instrument on which 0845 603 7037: commission is 1% with a minimum charge UK stamp duty is chargeable, to SDRT at the rate of 1.5% of of 20. the value of the ordinary shares transferred.
Contact details for Equiniti Limited with regard to share dealing In accordance with the terms of the Deposit Agreement, any services, including contact numbers for callers from outside the tax or duty payable by the Depositary or the custodian of the UK, are provided on page 165.
Depositary on deposits of ordinary shares will be charged by the Depositary to the party to whom the ADSs are delivered against such deposits.
Global Invest Direct A simple dealing service is available to US residents only for buying and selling Tomkins ADRs.
Details can be obtained from JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. whose contact details are provided on page 165.
164 Investor information continued As permitted by the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 ShareGift relating to electronic communications, the Company now The Company supports ShareGift, the charity share donation supplies all shareholders with shareholder documents by scheme registered charity number 1052686.
Through making them available on its website, www.
co. uk, ShareGift, shareholders who have only a very small number of except where a shareholder has specifically requested that the shares, which might be considered uneconomic to sell, are able Company continues to provide him or her with hard copies.
to donate them to charity.
Donated shares are aggregated and Shareholders will be informed by post or email whenever a sold by ShareGift, the proceeds being passed on to a wide shareholder document is made available on the website.
Donating shares to charity gives rise Shareholders can, at any time, change their decision on how neither to a gain nor a loss for UK Capital Gains Tax purposes they wish to receive shareholder documents by advising the and UK taxpayers may also be able to claim income tax relief Companys Registrar, whose contact details with regard to on the value of the donation.
electronic communication are provided on page 165.
ShareGift transfer forms specifically for the Companys shareholders are available from the Companys Registrar and, Electronic proxy voting even if the share certificate has been lost or destroyed, the gift can be completed.
The service is generally free.
However, there Shareholders may register their voting instructions for the may be an indemnity charge for a lost or destroyed share forthcoming AGM via the internet.
If you have registered for certificate where the value of the shares exceeds 100. the shareview service offered by the Companys Registrar, you ShareGifts contact details are provided on page 165. may submit your voting instructions by logging on to your shareview portfolio and accessing the Company Meetings Tomkins site.
If you have not registered with shareview, you Electronic communication may still register your vote electronically by going to The Companys Registrar operates a share register internet www.
You will be required to key in the three enquiry service to provide shareholders with details of their security numbers printed on your form of proxy to access the shareholdings.
To register for the service, please go to voting site.
You will need your shareholder reference which can be found on your share certificate or tax voucher and you will be asked to select your own PIN.
A user ID will then be posted to you.
Once registered, shareholders may elect to receive future shareholder information and Company documents in electronic format.
The main benefits of this system are speed and ease of use while saving money for your Company and reducing the demand on natural resources.
co. uk will also provide you with more details of the service and practical help and information on other share registration matters.
