Group financial statements 63 Group financial statements Consolidated income statement Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 Note $ million $ million $ million Continuing operations Sales 5 5,515.9 5,886.1 5,746.1 Cost of sales 4,023.7 4,284.6 4,165.9 Gross profit 1,492.2 1,601.5 1,580.2 Distribution costs 584.5 578.4 564.3 Administrative expenses 512.8 500.6 478.4 Impairments 6 342.4 0.8 2.9 Restructuring costs 7 26.0 27.6 23.9 Net gain on disposals and on the exit of businesses 7 43.0 91.4 5.7 Restructuring initiatives 17.0 63.8 18.2 Share of loss profit of associates 2.1 0.8 2.8 Operating profit 67.4 586.3 519.2 Interest payable 9 137.8 142.1 142.6 Investment income 10 87.8 86.8 73.3 Other finance expense 11 25.0 5.6 1.3 Net finance costs 75.0 60.9 70.6 Loss profit before tax 7.6 525.4 448.6 Income tax expense 12 38.4 139.9 65.6 Loss profit for the period from continuing operations 46.0 385.5 383.0 Discontinued operations Loss for the period from discontinued operations 13 66.7 21.3 Loss profit for the period 14 46.0 318.8 361.7 Minority interests 18.1 25.0 20.5 Loss profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders 64.1 293.8 341.2 Loss earnings per share Basic Continuing operations 7.29 c 41.42 c 43.21 c Discontinued operations c 7.66 c 2.54 c Total operations 15 7.29 c 33.76 c 40.67 c Diluted Continuing operations 7.29 c 40.91 c 42.13 c Discontinued operations c 7.54 c 2.41 c Total operations 15 7.29 c 33.37 c 39.72 c Dividends per ordinary share 16 13.02 c 27.68 c 27.26 c 64 Consolidated cash flow statement Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 Note $ million $ million $ million Operating activities Cash generated from operations 18 628.7 638.7 607.8 Income taxes paid 116.3 110.4 151.8 Income taxes received 31.8 24.2 9.4 Net cash inflow from operating activities 544.2 552.5 465.4 Investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment 183.2 231.3 193.8 Purchase of computer software 10.6 5.2 38.3 Capitalisation of development costs 0.6 0.4 0.6 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 7.9 39.6 25.9 Purchase of available-for-sale investments 0.1 0.2 0.2 Sale of available-for-sale investments 1.6 0.6 0.6 Purchase of interests in associates 10.4 3.8 3.5 Purchase of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 44 65.0 17.0 201.0 Sale of businesses and subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 45 124.6 216.3 12.5 Interest received 11.2 12.2 18.7 Dividends received from associates 0.6 1.4 0.6 Net cash outflow inflow from investing activities 124.0 12.2 379.1 Financing activities Issue of ordinary shares 0.2 2.4 27.3 Redemption of convertible cumulative preference shares 1.2 Draw-down of bank and other loans 114.6 8.4 102.5 Repayment of bank and other loans 15.6 289.9 51.2 Payments receipts on foreign currency derivatives 178.6 16.3 59.9 Capital element of finance lease rental payments 2.8 3.2 3.8 Interest element of finance lease rental payments 0.5 1.4 1.1 Decrease in collateralised cash 0.7 2.4 2.6 Purchase of own shares 4.7 6.9 8.7 Interest paid 55.0 64.8 71.1 Equity dividend paid 246.2 247.3 217.3 Preference dividend paid 2.0 13.0 Investment by a minority shareholder in a subsidiary 0.4 3.8 5.9 Dividend paid to a minority shareholder in a subsidiary 13.5 14.4 14.7 Net cash outflow from financing activities 401.0 630.4 182.7 Increase decrease in net cash and cash equivalents 19.2 65.7 96.4 Net cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 280.2 326.4 378.6 Foreign currency translation 21.2 19.5 44.2 Net cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 278.2 280.2 326.4 Analysis of net cash and cash equivalents: As at As at As at 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Cash and cash equivalents 291.9 295.9 337.6 Bank overdrafts 13.7 15.7 11.2 278.2 280.2 326.4 As at 3 January 2009, the Groups net debt was $476.4 million 29 December 2007: $591.5 million.
A reconciliation of the change in net cash and cash equivalents to the movement in net debt is presented in note 18.
Group financial statements 65 Group financial statements Consolidated balance sheet As at As at 3 January 29 December 2009 2007 Note $ million $ million Non-current assets Goodwill 19 415.9 660.0 Other intangible assets 20 108.8 93.1 Property, plant and equipment 21 1,167.3 1,414.4 Investments in associates 22 20.3 17.7 Trade and other receivables 24 105.9 24.9 Deferred tax assets 36 64.8 47.4 Post-employment benefit surpluses 34 5.3 7.2 1,888.3 2,264.7 Current assets Inventories 23 772.4 799.8 Trade and other receivables 24 769.7 989.1 Income tax recoverable 47.6 29.5 Available-for-sale investments 26 0.8 3.0 Cash and cash equivalents 27 291.9 295.9 1,882.4 2,117.3 Assets held for sale 28 90.9 Total assets 3,770.7 4,472.9 Current liabilities Bank overdrafts 29 13.7 15.7 Bank and other loans 29 29.5 39.8 Obligations under finance leases 30 1.5 1.8 Trade and other payables 31 650.1 738.7 Income tax liabilities 17.9 28.7 Provisions 37 48.8 50.2 761.5 874.9 Non-current liabilities Bank and other loans 29 762.9 820.5 Obligations under finance leases 30 5.4 7.8 Trade and other payables 31 51.6 43.2 Post-employment benefit obligations 34 333.6 306.5 Deferred tax liabilities 36 29.7 42.2 Income tax liabilities 63.5 67.6 Provisions 37 23.2 27.3 1,269.9 1,315.1 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale 28 28.1 Total liabilities 2,031.4 2,218.1 Net assets 1,739.3 2,254.8 Capital and reserves Ordinary share capital 38 79.6 65.5 Share premium account 38 799.1 679.4 Deferred shares 39 0.1 Own shares 40 14.9 18.9 Capital redemption reserve 41 921.7 718.8 Currency translation reserve 41 169.6 313.7 Available-for-sale reserve 41 1.0 0.2 Accumulated deficit retained profit 41 4.2 379.5 Shareholders equity 1,610.8 2,137.8 Minority interests 42 128.5 117.0 Total equity 1,739.3 2,254.8 Approved by the Board on 24 February 2009 and signed on its behalf by: J Nicol Director J W Zimmerman Director 66 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Loss profit for the period 46.0 318.8 361.7 Net expense income recognised directly in equity Loss gain on available-for-sale investments 1.0 0.8 1.1 Post-employment benefits: Net actuarial loss gain 98.8 95.9 38.0 Effect of the asset ceiling 12.3 43.8 1.6 Currency translation differences on foreign operations: Subsidiaries 211.7 109.2 305.1 Associates 3.2 0.6 0.9 Gain loss on net investment hedges 57.2 27.2 127.6 Currency translation differences on change of presentation currency 36.1 227.8 Income tax benefit expense on items taken directly to equity 14.3 12.6 1.8 230.9 157.4 85.1 Transfers from equity to the income statement Gain realised on the sale of available-for-sale investments 1.2 0.6 0.4 Currency translation differences on foreign operations sold 6.7 28.4 5.5 27.8 0.4 Total recognised income and expense for the period 271.4 504.0 446.4 Attributable to: Equity shareholders 287.8 474.4 421.8 Minority interests 16.4 29.6 24.6 271.4 504.0 446.4 Reconciliation of changes in consolidated shareholders equity Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Shareholders equity at the beginning of the period 2,137.8 1,769.2 1,140.8 Total recognised income and expense attributable to equity shareholders 287.8 474.4 421.8 Dividends on ordinary shares 246.2 247.3 217.3 Ordinary shares issued: Conversion of convertible cumulative preference shares 130.0 390.7 Exercise of employee share options 0.2 2.4 27.4 Purchase of own shares 4.7 6.9 8.7 Cost of share-based incentives 11.5 16.0 14.5 Net reduction in addition to shareholders equity during the period 527.0 368.6 628.4 Shareholders equity at the end of the period 1,610.8 2,137.8 1,769.2 Group financial statements 67 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements The exchange rates used were as follows: 1.
Nature of operations Tomkins plc and its subsidiaries comprise a global 2007 2006 2005 2004 1 $ 1 $ 1 $ 1 $ engineering and manufacturing business.
The Group is organised for management reporting purposes into two Average rate 2.00 1.83 1.82 1.83 principal business groups: Industrial & Automotive and Closing rate 1.99 1.96 1.72 1.92 Building Products.
Industrial & Automotive manufactures a wide range of As a result of the change of the Groups presentation systems and components for car, truck and industrial currency, a currency translation difference of $338.8 million equipment manufacturing markets, and industrial and was recognised in equity as at 29 December 2007 which automotive aftermarkets throughout the world.
Industrial represented the difference between the Groups assets and & Automotive is comprised of four operating segments: liabilities translated from sterling into US dollars at the Power Transmission, Fluid Power, Fluid Systems and Other closing exchange rate on that date of 1 $1.99 and the Industrial & Automotive.
equity items recognised in the consolidated financial statements that were translated from sterling into US dollars Building Products is comprised of two operating segments: at historical exchange rates.
Air Systems Components and Other Building Products.
Air Systems Components supplies the industrial and residential The currency translation difference arose as follows: heating, ventilation and air conditioning market, mainly in $ million North America.
Other Building Products manufactures a variety of products for the building and construction Ordinary share capital 22.6 industries, mainly in North America.
Share premium account 112.4 Own shares 3.4 Capital redemption reserve 202.9 2.
Transition to reporting in US dollars Currency translation reserve 17.7 Over recent years, the focus of the Groups acquisition Minority interests 22.0 activity has been overseas and there has been a reduction 338.8 in the relative importance of its UK operations.
The Groups principal operations are based in the US and the majority of the Groups profit is generated in US dollars.
Against this The change of the Companys functional currency was background, the Directors consider that the Companys accounted for prospectively from the beginning of 2008. functional currency changed from sterling to the US dollar Accordingly, the assets, liabilities and equity items of the at the beginning of 2008.
Company as at 29 December 2007 were translated from Consistent with the change in the Companys functional sterling into US dollars at the closing exchange rate on that currency, the Group changed its presentation currency from date of 1 $1.99.
sterling to the US dollar with effect from the beginning of As a consequence of applying the closing exchange rate 2008.
Comparative figures for 2007 and 2006 have been rather than historical exchange rates to the equity items of re-presented in US dollars.
the Company, $334.5 million of the currency translation The change of the Groups presentation currency and that difference arising on the change of the Groups of the Companys functional currency were accounted for presentation currency was transferred from the cumulative in accordance with IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in currency translation reserve back to the equity items of the Foreign Exchange Rates.
Company that are recognised as equity items in the consolidated financial statements.
On the change of the Groups presentation currency, comparative figures previously reported in sterling were The currency translation difference transferred may be translated into US dollars as follows: analysed as follows: $ million income and expenses were translated at the average exchange rate for the relevant period: Ordinary share capital 22.6 Share premium account 112.4 assets and liabilities were translated at the closing Own shares 3.4 exchange rate on the relevant balance sheet date: and Capital redemption reserve 202.9 equity items were translated at historical exchange rates.
334.5 68 Notes to the financial statements continued Intra-Group transactions and balances, and any 3.
Principal accounting policies unrealised gains and losses arising from intra-Group A.
Basis of preparation transactions, are eliminated on consolidation.
The consolidated financial statements on pages 63 to 134 have been prepared on a going concern basis in C. Associates accordance with International Financial Reporting An associate is an entity over which the Company, Standards adopted for use in the European Union and, either directly or indirectly, is in a position to exercise except as described under the heading Financial significant influence by participating in, but not instruments, under the historical cost convention.
controlling or jointly controlling, the financial and operating policies of the entity.
From the Groups perspective, there are no applicable differences between IFRS adopted for use in the Associates are accounted for using the equity method.
European Union and IFRS as issued by the International Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest Accounting Standards Board and therefore the financial in the entity are not recognised, except to the extent statements also comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
that the Group has incurred obligations on behalf of The Groups principal accounting policies are unchanged the entity.
Profits and losses recognised by the compared with the year ended 29 December 2007.
Company or its subsidiaries on transactions with an associate are eliminated to the extent of the Groups During the period, the Group adopted the following interest in the associate concerned.
accounting pronouncements that are relevant to its operations, neither of which had any impact on its D. Foreign currency translation results or financial position: At entity level, transactions denominated in foreign IFRS 8 Operating Segments adopted early currencies are translated into the entitys functional currency at the exchange rate ruling on the date of IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at Interaction the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date.
The Groups annual financial statements are drawn Currency translation differences are recognised in the up to the Saturday nearest 31 December.
financial statements cover the 53 week period from On consolidation, the results of foreign operations are 30 December 2007 to 3 January 2009 2008 with translated into the Groups presentation currency at the comparative figures for the 52 week periods from average exchange rate for the period and their assets 31 December 2006 to 29 December 2007 2007 and liabilities are translated into the Groups and from 1 January 2006 to 30 December 2006 presentation currency at the exchange rate ruling on 2006. the balance sheet date.
Currency translation differences are recognised directly in equity in the B.
Basis of consolidation currency translation reserve.
The consolidated financial statements include the In the event that a foreign operation is sold, the gain or results, cash flows and assets and liabilities of the loss on disposal recognised in the income statement is Company and its subsidiaries, and the Groups share determined after taking into account the cumulative of the results and net assets of its associates.
currency translation differences that are attributable to A subsidiary is an entity controlled, either directly or the operation.
On adoption of IFRS, the Group elected indirectly, by the Company, where control is the power to deem cumulative currency translation differences to to govern the financial and operating policies of the be $nil.
Accordingly, the gain or loss recognised on entity so as to obtain benefit from its activities.
The disposal of a foreign operation does not include results of a subsidiary acquired during the period are currency translation differences that arose before included in the Groups results from the effective date 4 January 2004. of acquisition.
The results of a subsidiary sold during In the cash flow statement, the cash flows of foreign the period are included in the Groups results up to the operations are translated into the Groups presentation effective date of disposal.
currency at the average exchange rate for the period.
Where accumulated losses applicable to a minority interest in a subsidiary exceed the minoritys interest in the equity of the subsidiary, the excess is allocated to the Groups interest in the subsidiary, except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover its share of the accumulated losses.
Group financial statements 69 Group financial statements E. Revenue i Assets acquired in business combinations An intangible resource acquired in a business Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the combination is recognised as an intangible asset if invoiced amount net of returns, early settlement it is separable from the acquired business or arises discounts, rebates and sales taxes and is recognised from contractual or legal rights.
An acquired only where there is persuasive evidence of a sales intangible asset is amortised on a straight-line basis agreement, the delivery of goods has occurred, the sale so as to charge its cost, which represents its fair price is fixed or determinable and the collectability of value at the date of acquisition, to the income revenue is reasonably assured.
statement over its expected useful life, which is in Interest income is accrued on a time basis using the the range 2 to 15 years.
ii Product development costs Dividend income is recognised when payment is All research expenditure is charged to the income received.
statement in the period in which it is incurred.
F. Restructuring initiatives Development expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred Restructuring initiatives comprise expenses incurred in unless it relates to the development of a new or major projects undertaken to rationalise and improve significantly improved product, it is incurred after the cost competitiveness of the Group and the technical feasibility of the product has been consequential gains and losses arising on the exit and proven, and customer orders have been received disposal of businesses or on the disposal of assets.
that are expected to provide income sufficient to cover the further development expenditure that will G. Goodwill be incurred prior to the product going into full Business combinations are accounted for using the production.
Capitalised development expenditure is purchase method.
amortised on a straight-line basis such that it is charged to the income statement over the Goodwill arises on the acquisition of interests in expected life of the resulting product.
Goodwill represents any excess of the cost of acquisition over the interest acquired by the Group in the fair value of the entitys iii Computer software identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at Computer software that is not integral to an item the date of acquisition.
of property, plant and equipment is recognised separately as an intangible asset.
Amortisation is Goodwill in respect of an acquired subsidiary is provided on a straight-line basis so as to charge the recognised as an intangible asset and is allocated to cost of the software to the income statement over the CGU or group of CGUs that are expected to its expected useful life, which is in the range 3 to benefit from the synergies of the acquisition.
is not amortised but tested at least annually for impairment and carried at cost less any recognised I.
Property, plant and equipment impairment.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less Goodwill in respect of an acquired interest in an accumulated depreciation and any recognised associate is subsumed within investments in associates.
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated.
Depreciation of Where the interest acquired by the Group in the fair property, plant and equipment, other than freehold value of the entitys assets, liabilities and contingent land and assets under construction, is generally liabilities exceeds the cost of acquisition, the excess is provided on a straight-line basis so as to charge the recognised immediately as a gain in the income depreciable amount to the income statement over the statement.
expected useful life of the asset concerned, which is in the following ranges: H. Other intangible assets Other intangible assets are stated at cost less Freehold buildings and accumulated amortisation and any recognised long-leasehold property 10 to 50 years impairment losses.
All intangible assets recognised by Short-leasehold property Length of lease the Group are considered to have finite useful lives.
Plant, equipment and vehicles 2 to 20 years Borrowing costs attributable to assets under construction are charged to the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
70 Notes to the financial statements continued Where appropriate, impairment of long-lived assets 3.
Principal accounting policies continued other than goodwill is recognised before goodwill is J.
When goodwill is tested for Leases that confer rights and obligations similar to impairment and the carrying amount of the CGU or those that attach to owned assets are classified as group of CGUs to which the goodwill has been finance leases.
All other leases are classified as allocated exceeds its recoverable amount, the operating leases.
impairment is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of the goodwill and then to the other longAssets held under finance leases are included within lived assets belonging to the CGU or group of CGUs property, plant and equipment, initially measured at pro-rata on the basis of their carrying amounts.
their fair value or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments, and a corresponding liability Impairments are recognised in the income statement.
is recognised within obligations under finance leases.
Impairments recognised in previous periods for longSubsequently, the assets are depreciated on a basis lived assets other than goodwill are reversed if there consistent with similar owned assets or over the term has been a change in the estimates used to determine of the lease, if shorter.
At inception of the lease, the the assets recoverable amount, but only to the extent lease rentals are apportioned between an interest that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed element and a capital element so as to produce a its carrying amount had no impairment been constant periodic rate of interest on the outstanding recognised in previous periods.
Thereafter, the interest element is recognised as in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
an expense in the income statement while the capital element is applied to reduce the outstanding liability.
L. Inventories Operating lease rentals, and any incentives receivable, Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net are recognised in the income statement on a straightrealisable value, with due allowance for any excess, line basis over the term of the lease.
Cost represents the expenditure incurred in bringing inventories to their existing location and condition, which may include the K. Impairment of long-lived assets cost of raw materials, direct labour costs, other direct Goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant costs and related production overheads.
Cost is and equipment are tested for impairment whenever generally determined on a first in, first out basis.
Net events or circumstances indicate that their carrying realisable value is the estimated selling price less costs amounts might be impaired.
Additionally, goodwill and to complete and sell.
any capitalised development expenditure relating to a product that is not yet in full production are subject to From time to time, the Group enters into forward an annual impairment test.
purchase contracts to fix the price of commodities purchased for use in its manufacturing operations.
An asset is impaired to the extent that its carrying As used by the Group, such derivative contracts do not amount exceeds its recoverable amount, which fall within the scope of IAS 39 and, therefore, are not represents the higher of the assets value in use and its recognised as assets or liabilities.
fair value less costs to sell.
An assets value in use represents the present value of the future cash flows M. Grants expected to be derived from the continued use of the asset.
Fair value less costs to sell is the amount Grants received relating to property, plant and obtainable from the sale of the asset in an arms length equipment are treated as deferred income and transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, recognised as income in equal instalments over the less the costs of disposal.
expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
Other grants received are recognised as income on a Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable systematic basis so as to match them with the costs amount of an individual asset, the recoverable amount they are intended to compensate or, if those costs have is determined for the CGU to which the asset belongs.
already been recognised, the grants are recognised as An assets CGU is the smallest group of assets that income in the period in which they are received.
includes the asset and generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets of groups of assets.
Goodwill does not generate cash flows independently of other assets and is therefore tested for impairment at the level of the CGU or group of CGUs to which it is allocated.
Group financial statements 71 Group financial statements Derivative financial instruments are recognised as N. Financial instruments assets and liabilities measured at their fair values at i Investments the balance sheet date.
Changes in their fair values Listed investments are classified as available-for-sale are recognised in the income statement and this is and are measured at fair value.
Changes in their likely to cause volatility in situations where the fair values are recognised in a separate component carrying value of the hedged item is either not of equity except to the extent that they represent adjusted to reflect fair value changes arising from an other than temporary impairment in which case the hedged risk or is so adjusted but that the impairment loss is recognised in the income adjustment is not recognised in the income statement.
Realised gains and losses are transferred statement.
Provided the conditions specified by from equity to the income statement in the event IAS 39 are met, hedge accounting may be used to of the disposal of the investments.
The Group does not generally apply hedge ii Trade receivables accounting to transactional foreign currency Trade receivables represent the amount of sales of hedging relationships, such as hedges of forecast goods to customers for which payment has not or committed transactions.
It does, however, apply been received, less an allowance for doubtful hedge accounting to translational foreign currency accounts that is estimated based on factors such as hedging relationships and to hedges of its interest the credit rating of the customer, historical trends, rate exposures where it is permissible to do so the current economic environment and other under IAS 39.
When hedge accounting is used, the information.
relevant hedging relationships are classified as a fair value hedge, a cash flow hedge or, in the case of a iii Cash and cash equivalents hedge of the Groups net investment in a foreign Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, operation, a net investment hedge.
deposits available on demand and other shortterm, highly liquid investments with a maturity on Where the hedging relationship is classified as a fair acquisition of three months or less, and bank value hedge, the carrying amount of the hedged overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are presented as current asset or liability is adjusted by the increase or liabilities to the extent that there is no right of decrease in its fair value attributable to the hedged offset with cash balances.
risk and the resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement where, to the extent that the iv Trade payables hedge is effective, it offsets the change in the fair Trade payables represent the amount of invoices value of the hedging instrument.
received from suppliers for purchases of goods and Where the hedging relationship is classified as a services for which payment has not been made.
cash flow hedge or as a net investment hedge, to the extent the hedge is effective, changes in the v Bank and other loans fair value of the hedging instrument are recognised Bank and other loans are initially measured at fair directly in equity rather than in the income value, net of directly attributable transaction costs, statement.
When the hedged item in a cash flow if any, and are subsequently measured at amortised hedge is recognised in the financial statements, the cost using the effective interest rate method.
accumulated gain or loss recognised in equity is either recycled to the income statement or, if the vi Derivative financial instruments hedged item results in a non-financial asset, is The Group uses derivative financial instruments, recognised as an adjustment to its initial carrying principally foreign currency swaps, forward foreign amount.
Accumulated gains and losses recognised currency contracts and interest rate swaps, to in equity in relation to a net investment hedge are reduce its exposure to exchange rate and interest recycled to the income statement on disposal of rate movements.
The Group does not hold or issue the foreign operation.
derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as current assets or liabilities unless they are in a designated hedging relationship and the hedged item is classified as a non-current asset or liability.
Derivative financial instruments that are not in a designated hedging relationship are classed as trading.
72 Notes to the financial statements continued The cost of defined benefit plans recognised in the 3.
Principal accounting policies continued income statement comprises the net total of the N. Financial instruments continued current service cost, the past service cost, the expected return on plan assets, the interest cost and the effect vii Embedded derivatives of curtailments or settlements.
The current service cost Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host represents the increase in the present value of the plan contracts are recognised separately as derivative liabilities expected to arise from employee service in the financial instruments when their risks and current period.
Past service costs resulting from characteristics are not closely related to those of enhanced benefits are recognised in the income the host contract and the host contract is not statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting stated at its fair value with changes in its fair value period, or immediately if the benefits have vested.
recognised in the income statement.
The expected return on plan assets is based on market expectations at the beginning of the period of future viii Preference shares returns over the life of the benefit obligation.
The Prior to redemption in July 2007, the Companys interest cost represents the increase in the benefit US dollar denominated 5.56% convertible obligation due to the passage of time.
The discount cumulative preference shares were classified as rate used is determined at the balance sheet date by non-current liabilities and translated into sterling at reference to market yields on high-quality corporate the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
bonds, where available, or government bonds.
Gains Dividends payable on the preference shares were and losses on curtailments or settlements are included in interest payable.
recognised in the income statement in the period in which the curtailment or settlement occurs.
ix Own shares Own shares represent the Companys ordinary Actuarial gains and losses, which represent differences shares that are held by the Company, its between the expected and actual returns on the plan subsidiaries and sponsored ESOP trusts in relation assets and the effect of changes in actuarial to the Groups employee share schemes.
Own assumptions, are recognised in the statement of shares are deducted at cost in arriving at recognised income and expense in the period in which shareholders equity and gains and losses on their they occur.
sale or transfer are recognised directly in equity.
The defined benefit liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet comprises the net total for each plan of O. Post-employment benefits the present value of the benefit obligation, minus any Post-employment benefits comprise pension benefits past service costs not yet recognised, minus the fair provided to employees throughout the world and other value of the plan assets, if any, at the balance sheet benefits, mainly healthcare, provided to certain date.
Where a plan is in surplus, the asset recognised is employees in North America.
limited to the amount of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any amounts that the For defined contribution plans, the cost of providing Group expects to recover by way of refunds or a the benefits represents the Groups contributions to the reduction in future contributions.
The net total for all plans and is recognised in the income statement in the plans in surplus is classified as a non-current asset.
period in which the contributions fall due.
The net total for all plans in deficit is classified as a For defined benefit plans, the cost of providing the non-current liability.
benefits is determined based on actuarial valuations of each of the plans that are carried out annually at the Groups balance sheet date by independent, qualified actuaries.
Plan assets are measured at their fair value at the balance sheet date.
Benefit obligations are measured using the projected unit credit method.
Group financial statements 73 Group financial statements P. Share-based incentives R. Taxation Share-based incentives are provided to employees Current tax is the amount of tax payable or recoverable under the Groups share option, bonus and other share in respect of the taxable profit or loss for the period.
All existing schemes are classified as Taxable profit differs from accounting profit because it equity-settled.
The Group recognises a compensation excludes items of income or expense recognised for expense in respect of these schemes that is based on accounting purposes that are either not taxable or the fair value of the awards, where appropriate, deductible for tax purposes or are taxable or deductible measured using an option-pricing model.
Fair value is in other periods.
Current tax is calculated using tax determined at the date of grant and is not rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted subsequently remeasured unless the conditions on at the balance sheet date.
which the award was granted are modified.
Generally, The Group recognises provisions in respect of uncertain the compensation expense is recognised on a straighttax positions whereby additional current tax may line basis over the vesting period.
Adjustments are become payable in future periods following the audit made to reduce the compensation expense to reflect by the tax authorities of previously filed tax returns.
expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting Provisions for uncertain tax positions are based upon period due to failure to satisfy service conditions or managements assessment of the likely outcome of non-market performance conditions.
In the event of a issues associated with assumed permanent differences, cancellation, the compensation expense that would interest that may be applied to temporary differences, have been recognised over the remainder of the the possible disallowance of tax credits and penalties.
vesting period is recognised immediately in the income Provisions for uncertain tax positions are reviewed statement.
regularly and are adjusted to reflect events such as In accordance with IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of the expiry of limitation periods for assessing tax, IFRS, the Group has not applied this policy to awards administrative guidance given by the tax authorities that were granted on or before 7 November 2002. and court decisions.
Deferred tax is tax expected to be payable or Q.
Provisions recoverable on differences between the carrying A provision is a liability of uncertain timing or amount amount of an asset or a liability and its tax base used and is recognised when the Group has a present in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax is obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that accounted for using the liability method, whereby payment will be made to settle the obligation and the deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all payment can be estimated reliably.
taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that Provision is made for warranty claims when the taxable profits will be available against which relevant products are sold, based on historical deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
experience of the nature, frequency and average cost of warranty claims.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial Provision is made for the cost of product recalls if recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition management considers it probable that it will be of other assets and liabilities in a transaction other than necessary to recall a specific product and the amount a business combination that affects neither accounting can be reasonably estimated.
Provision is made for restructuring costs when a Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences detailed formal plan for the restructuring has been arising on investments in foreign subsidiaries and determined and the plan has been communicated to associates, except where the Group is able to control the affected parties.
Gains from the expected disposal the reversal of the temporary difference and it is of assets are not taken into account in measuring these probable that the temporary difference will not reverse provisions and provision is not made for future in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates that are Provision is made for claims for compensation for expected to apply in the period in which the liability is injuries sustained by the Groups employees while at settled or the asset is realised.
The provision represents managements best estimate of the liability for claims made but not yet Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a fully settled and for incidents which have occurred but legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets have not yet been reported to the Group.
The Groups against current tax liabilities and when they relate to liability for claims made but not yet fully settled is income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and calculated on an actuarial basis by a third party the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and administrator.
Historical data trends are used to liabilities on a net basis.
estimate the liability for unreported incidents.
Current and deferred tax is recognised in the income statement unless it relates to an item recognised directly in equity, in which case it too is recognised directly in equity.
74 Notes to the financial statements continued 3.
Principal accounting policies continued IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs In March 2007, the IASB published a revised version S. Assets held for sale and discontinued of IAS 23 that changes the permitted treatment of operations borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets, i. e. assets Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get amount will be recovered by sale rather than by ready for their intended use or sale.
Under the existing continuing use in the business.
For this to be the case, standard, the Group recognises all borrowing costs as the asset must be available for immediate sale in its an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
present condition, management must be committed to, Under the revised standard, borrowing costs that are and have initiated, a plan to sell the asset which, when directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or initiated, was expected to result in a completed sale production of a qualifying asset must be capitalised as within 12 months.
An extension of the period required part of the cost of that asset.
to complete the sale does not preclude the asset from IAS 23 Revised must be applied to borrowing costs being classified as held for sale, provided the delay was relating to qualifying assets for which capitalisation for reasons beyond the Groups control and commences in annual periods beginning on or after management remains committed to its plan to sell the 1 January 2009. asset.
Assets that are classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and Management expects that IAS 23 Revised will have an fair value less costs to sell.
initial positive impact on the Groups results and financial position because borrowing costs that would A discontinued operation is a component of an entity have been expensed as incurred will be capitalised as that has either been disposed of, or satisfies the criteria part of the cost of qualifying assets.
However, this to be classified as held for sale, and represents a initial positive impact will be offset over time by the separate major line of business or geographic area of higher depreciation expense that will be recognised in operations, is part of a single co-ordinated plan to respect of the qualifying assets.
Management is not yet dispose of a separate major line of business or able to estimate reliably the effect of IAS 23 Revised as geographic area of operations, or is a subsidiary this will depend on the level of expenditure on acquired exclusively with a view to disposal.
qualifying assets and prevailing market interest rates.
T. Dividends on ordinary shares IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements Dividends payable on ordinary shares are recognised In September 2007, the IASB published a revised in the financial statements when they have been version of IAS 1 which provides for a number of appropriately authorised and are no longer at the presentational changes to financial statements, Companys discretion.
Accordingly, interim dividends including the option to present a single statement of are recognised when they are paid and final dividends comprehensive income rather than an income are recognised when they are declared following statement and a separate statement of other approval by shareholders at the Companys AGM.
comprehensive income, the requirement to disclose Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised as an income tax relating to each component of other appropriation of shareholders equity.
comprehensive income, and the requirement to present a balance sheet as at the beginning of the earliest U.
Accounting pronouncements not yet adopted comparative period when an entity applies a change of Recently-issued accounting pronouncements that are accounting policy retrospectively or makes a relevant to the Groups operations but have not yet retrospective restatement.
been adopted are outlined below.
With the exception IAS 1 Revised is effective for annual periods beginning of the revisions to IAS 23 and those to IFRS 3 and on or after 1 January 2009.
IAS 27, management does not expect that the adoption of these pronouncements will have a material IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations and IAS 27 impact on the Groups results or financial position.
Revised Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements In January 2008, the IASB issued revised versions of IFRS 3 and IAS 27 that introduce a number of changes that will affect the accounting for future business combinations and the accounting in the event of the loss of control over a subsidiary.
Group financial statements 75 Group financial statements Where a business combination involves a minority IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment interest, the Group will be able to choose for each in a Foreign Operation business combination whether to measure the minority IFRIC 16 provides guidance on net investment hedge interest at fair value or, as at present, at the minoritys accounting, including: which foreign currency risks share of the fair value of the net assets of the acquired qualify for hedge accounting, and what amount can be entity.
In step acquisitions, previously held interests will designated: where, within a group, the hedging be remeasured at fair value and any gain or loss arising instrument can be held: and what amount should be will be recognised in the income statement.
On the loss reclassified from equity to the income statement on of control of a subsidiary, any retained interest will be disposal of the hedged foreign operation.
remeasured at fair value and any gain or loss will be IFRIC 16 is effective for annual periods commencing on reflected in the gain or loss on loss of control.
Other significant changes are that acquisition costs will be expensed and adjustments to contingent 4.
Critical accounting estimates consideration will be recognised in the income statement.
Background IFRS 3 Revised and IAS 27 Revised are effective for When applying the Groups accounting policies, annual periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009. management must make assumptions and estimates concerning the future that affect the carrying amounts The financial effect of IFRS 3 Revised and IAS 27 of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date, the Revised will be dependent on the circumstances disclosure of contingencies that existed at the balance surrounding the future transactions to which they will sheet date and the amounts of revenue and expenses apply, that are at present unknown.
recognised during the accounting period.
Such assumptions and estimates are based on factors such Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment as historical experience, the observance of trends in the Vesting Conditions and Cancellations industries in which the Group operates and information In January 2008, the IASB published an amendment to available from the Groups customers and other outside IFRS 2 which clarifies that only service conditions and sources.
performance conditions attaching to a share-based Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making incentive are vesting conditions and specifies that all assumptions and estimates, actual outcomes could cancellations, whether by the Group or by the differ from those assumptions and estimates.
An participant, should receive the same accounting analysis of the key sources of estimation uncertainty at treatment.
It is expected that the principal impact of the balance sheet date that have a significant risk of the amendment will be in relation to the Groups causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts savings-related share option scheme.
At present, if a of the Groups assets and liabilities within the next participant in that scheme forfeits an award by ceasing financial year is presented below.
to make payments to the savings contract, the event is treated as a forfeiture.
On adoption of the amendment, that event will be treated as a cancellation unless a B. Post-employment benefits subsequent award is identified as a replacement, in The Group operates pension plans throughout the which case it will be treated as a modification.
world, covering the majority of its employees.
Pension benefits are provided by way of both defined The amendment to IFRS 2 is effective for annual contribution plans and defined benefit plans.
The periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
Groups defined benefit pension plans are closed to new entrants.
The Group also provides other postImprovements to IFRS 2008 employment benefits, principally health and life In May 2008, the IASB published its first annual insurance cover, to certain of its employees in North improvements standard which contains minor America by way of unfunded defined benefit plans.
amendments to standards that address a number of issues, including the following: the accounting for The Group accounts for post-employment benefits in amendments to retirement benefit plans involving a accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits, whereby reduction of benefits and the treatment of plan the cost of defined benefit plans is determined based administration costs: the classification of the assets and on actuarial valuations of the plans that are carried out liabilities of a subsidiary as held for sale where the annually at the Groups balance sheet date.
The parent is committed to sell but will retain a nonactuarial valuations are dependent on assumptions controlling interest: the accounting for impairment of about the future that are made by management on the an investment in an associate that includes goodwill: advice of independent qualified actuaries.
If actual and the disclosure of estimates used to determine the experience differs from these assumptions, there could recoverable amount of cash-generating units.
be a material change in the amounts recognised by the Group in respect of defined benefit plans in the next Most of the amendments are effective for annual financial year.
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
76 Notes to the financial statements continued Management bases the estimated cash flows of the 4.
Critical accounting estimates continued CGU or group of CGUs on assumptions such as the B. Post-employment benefits continued future changes in sales volumes, future changes in As at 3 January 2009, the present value of the benefit selling prices, and expected changes in material prices, obligation was $1,165.8 million.
The benefit obligation salaries and other costs.
Management determines a is calculated using a number of assumptions including discount rate for each CGU or group of CGUs using a future salary increases, increases to pension benefits, capital asset pricing model, which is based on variables mortality rates and, in the case of post-employment including the applicable risk-free interest rates and, for medical benefits, the expected rate of increase in determining the cost of equity, the long-term equity medical costs.
The present value of the benefit risk premium and the assumed share price volatility obligation is calculated by discounting the benefit relative to the market, and, for determining the cost of obligation using market yields on high-quality debt, the assumed credit risk spreads.
corporate bonds at the balance sheet date.
As at As at 3 January 2009, the carrying amount of long- 3 January 2009, the fair value of the plan assets was lived assets was $1,692.0 million, after taking into $862.1 million.
The plan assets consist largely of listed account impairments totalling $342.4 million that were securities and their fair values are subject to fluctuation recognised during 2008.
Further impairment losses may in response to changes in market conditions.
be recognised on these assets within the next financial Effects of changes in the actuarial assumptions year if there are adverse changes in the variables and underlying the benefit obligation, effects of changes in assumptions underlying the estimated future cash the discount rate applicable to the benefit obligation flows of the CGUs or the discount rates that are and effects of differences between the expected and applied to those cash flows.
actual return on the plan assets are classified as Sensitivity analysis of the carrying amount of goodwill actuarial gains and losses and are recognised directly in to the key assumptions underlying the value in use equity.
During 2008, the Group recognised a net calculations is presented in note 19. actuarial gain of $98.8 million.
Further actuarial gains and losses will be recognised during the next financial D. Inventory year.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net An analysis of the assumptions that will be used by realisable value, with due allowance for excess, management to determine the cost of defined benefit obsolete or slow-moving items.
Net realisable value is plans that will be recognised in the income statement based on current assessments of future demand, in the next financial year is presented in note 34. market conditions and new product development initiatives.
As at 3 January 2009, the carrying value of C. Impairment of long-lived assets inventories was $772.4 million, net of allowances of Goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant $45.1 million.
Should demand for the Groups products and equipment are tested for impairment whenever decline further during the next financial year as a result events or circumstances indicate that their carrying of the current economic downturn, additional amounts might be impaired.
Additionally, goodwill and allowances may be necessary in respect of excess or capitalised development expenditure relating to a slow-moving items.
product that is not yet in full production are subject to an annual impairment test.
Due to the nature of the E. Financial instruments Groups operations, it is generally not possible to Derivative financial instruments that the Group holds estimate the recoverable amount for individual longfor the purpose of hedging its currency and interest lived assets and impairment tests are usually based on rate exposures are recognised as assets and liabilities in the value in use of the CGU or group of CGUs to which the Groups balance sheet measured at their fair value the asset belongs.
As at 3 January 2009, the Group Value in use represents the net present value of the recognised a net asset of $28.4 million in respect of cash flows expected to arise from the relevant CGU or derivatives.
The fair value of derivatives continually group of CGUs and its calculation requires changes in response to changes in prevailing market management to estimate those cash flows and to apply conditions and applicable credit risk spreads.
Where a suitable discount rate to them.
permissible under IAS 39, the Group uses hedge accounting to mitigate the impact of changes in the fair value of derivatives on the income statement but the Groups results may be affected by changes in the fair values of derivatives where hedge accounting cannot be applied or due to hedge ineffectiveness.
Group financial statements 77 Group financial statements F. Workers compensation I.
Taxation Provision is made for claims for compensation for The Group is subject to income tax in each of the injuries sustained by the Groups employees while at jurisdictions in which it operates.
The Groups liability for claims made but not fully required to exercise significant judgement in settled is calculated on an actuarial basis.
Historical determining the Groups provision for income taxes.
data trends are used to estimate the liability for Estimation is required of taxable profit in order to unreported incidents.
As at 3 January 2009, the determine the Groups current tax liability.
workers compensation provision amounted to Managements judgement is required in relation to $25.5 million.
Further provision may be necessary uncertain tax positions whereby additional current tax within the next financial year if the actual cost of may become payable in the future following the audit settling claims exceeds managements estimates.
by the tax authorities of previously filed tax returns.
As at 3 January 2009, the Group holds a provision for G. Environmental liabilities uncertain tax positions amounting to $63.5 million.
Provision is made for the estimated cost of known It is possible that the final outcome of these uncertain environmental remediation obligations in relation to tax positions may differ from managements estimates.
the Groups current and former manufacturing Estimation is also required of temporary differences facilities.
Cost estimates include the expenditure between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities expected to be incurred in the initial remediation effort and their tax base.
Deferred tax liabilities are and, where appropriate, in the long-term monitoring of recognised for all taxable temporary differences but, the relevant sites.
Management monitors for each where there exist deductible temporary differences, remediation project the costs incurred to date against managements judgement is required as to whether a expected total costs to complete and operates deferred tax asset should be recognised based on the procedures to identify possible remediation obligations availability of future taxable profits.
As at 3 January that are presently unknown.
2009, the Group recognised net deferred tax assets As at 3 January 2009, the provision for environmental amounting to $35.1 million.
It is possible that the remediation costs amounted to $7.4 million.
Further deferred tax assets actually recoverable may differ from provision may be necessary within the next financial the amounts recognised if actual taxable profits differ year if actual remediation costs exceed expected costs, from managements estimates.
new remediation obligations are identified or there are As at 3 January 2009, deferred tax liabilities were not changes in the circumstances affecting the Groups recognised on retained profits of foreign subsidiaries legal or constructive remediation obligations.
and associates amounting to $3,180.5 million because the Group is able to control the remittance of those H. Product warranties profits to the UK and it is probable that they will not be Provision is made for the estimated cost of future remitted in the foreseeable future.
Income tax may be warranty claims on the Groups products.
Management payable on these amounts if circumstances change and bases the provision on historical experience of the either their remittance can no longer be controlled by nature, frequency and average cost of warranty claims the Group or they are actually remitted to the UK.
and takes into account recent trends that might suggest that the historical claims experience may differ from future claims.
As at 3 January 2009, the Groups provision for warranty claims amounted to $11.5 million.
Further provision may be necessary within the next financial year if actual claims experience differs from managements estimates.
78 Notes to the financial statements continued 5.
Background The Groups operating segments are identified by grouping together businesses that manufacture similar products, as this is the basis on which information is provided to the Board for the purposes of allocating resources within the Group and assessing the performance of the Groups businesses.
The Groups business segments are described in note 1.
The Board uses adjusted operating profit to measure the profitability of each segment.
Adjusted operating profit is therefore the measure of segment profit presented in the Groups segment disclosures.
Adjusted operating profit represents operating profit before the amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, restructuring initiatives comprising restructuring costs and the net gain or loss on disposals and on the exit of businesses and impairments.
As indicated in note 3, the Group adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments early with effect from the beginning of 2008.
Accordingly, certain information for prior years has been restated to conform with the requirements of IFRS 8.
Group financial statements 79 Group financial statements Reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to loss profit before tax: Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Adjusted operating profit 403.4 530.5 545.3 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions 10.6 7.2 5.0 Impairments see note 6 342.4 0.8 2.9 Restructuring initiatives see note 7 17.0 63.8 18.2 Operating profit 67.4 586.3 519.2 Net finance costs 75.0 60.9 70.6 Loss profit before tax 7.6 525.4 448.6 Segmental analysis of the sales and adjusted operating profit of discontinued operations is presented in note 13.
C. Segment assets The Board does not review, and is not regularly provided with, an analysis of the Groups total assets by operating segment.
In order to comply with the requirements of IFRS 8, an analysis is provided below of the Groups operating assets, goodwill and other intangible assets by operating segment: As at As at As at 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million By operating segment Continuing operations Industrial & Automotive: Power Transmission 1,185.0 1,706.6 1,555.9 Fluid Power 594.5 601.6 557.3 Fluid Systems 236.3 406.4 334.8 Other Industrial & Automotive 375.7 422.8 417.2 2,391.5 3,137.4 2,865.2 Building Products: Air Systems Components 753.2 771.9 785.9 Other Building Products 110.8 151.0 205.3 864.0 922.9 991.2 Corporate 33.7 27.8 24.9 3,289.2 4,088.1 3,881.3 Discontinued operations Industrial & Automotive: Wiper Systems 220.3 3,289.2 4,088.1 4,101.6 Reconciliation of assets analysed by operating segment to total assets: As at As at As at 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Segment assets 3,289.2 4,088.1 4,101.6 Cash and cash equivalents 291.9 295.9 337.6 Collateralised cash 3.8 5.8 8.0 Derivatives hedging translational exposures 73.4 6.2 4.9 Deferred tax assets 64.8 47.4 71.0 Income tax recoverable 47.6 29.5 42.7 Total assets 3,770.7 4,472.9 4,565.8 80 Notes to the financial statements continued 5.
Segment information continued D. Non-current assets The geographic analysis of long-lived assets goodwill and other intangible assets, and property, plant and equipment and investments in associates was as follows: As at As at As at 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million By location US 957.3 1,047.0 1,098.9 UK 70.1 131.0 124.2 Rest of Europe 192.6 233.3 202.7 Rest of the world 492.3 773.9 679.6 1,712.3 2,185.2 2,105.4 Capital expenditure, depreciation and amortisation in respect of long-lived assets was as follows: Year ended 3 January 2009 Year ended 29 December 2007 Year ended 30 December 2006 Capital Capital Capital expenditure Depreciation Amortisation expenditure Depreciation Amortisation expenditure Depreciation Amortisation $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million By operating segment Continuing operations Industrial & Automotive: Power Transmission 83.9 95.2 7.5 91.8 102.1 6.4 98.1 85.7 8.3 Fluid Power 35.8 27.3 8.8 38.2 26.4 6.9 27.0 18.7 11.0 Fluid Systems 22.3 26.1 1.2 41.9 29.8 0.8 34.0 27.4 0.6 Other Industrial & Automotive 19.9 16.7 1.4 27.6 18.5 1.3 17.6 17.8 0.7 161.9 165.3 18.9 199.5 176.8 15.4 176.7 149.6 20.6 Building Products: Air Systems Components 28.4 26.3 6.6 23.5 26.0 4.7 24.5 27.2 2.7 Other Building Products 3.3 11.4 0.2 8.8 12.7 0.1 21.5 17.2 0.2 31.7 37.7 6.8 32.3 38.7 4.8 46.0 44.4 2.9 Corporate 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.4 1.0 0.3 0.6 193.8 203.1 26.0 232.1 215.9 20.6 223.7 194.3 24.1 Discontinued operations Industrial & Automotive: Wiper Systems 4.4 8.4 13.9 0.3 193.8 203.1 26.0 236.5 215.9 20.6 232.1 208.2 24.4 The Board regularly reviews the Groups capital expenditure, which represents cash outflows on additions to property, plant and equipment and non-integral computer software included within other intangible assets.
Group financial statements 81 Group financial statements 6.
Impairments As explained in notes 19 and 21, during 2008, the Group recognised impairments totalling $342.4 million which reflected the effect of deteriorating economic conditions on the Groups end markets.
Year ended 3 January 2009 Year ended 29 December 2007 Year ended 30 December 2006 Property, Property, Property, plant and plant and plant and Goodwill equipment Total Goodwill equipment Total Goodwill equipment Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million By operating segment Industrial & Automotive: Power Transmission 194.6 90.0 284.6 Fluid Power 11.7 11.7 Fluid Systems 1.1 1.1 0.8 0.8 2.9 2.9 194.6 102.8 297.4 0.8 0.8 2.9 2.9 Building Products: Air Systems Components 34.0 34.0 Other Building Products 11.0 11.0 34.0 11.0 45.0 228.6 113.8 342.4 0.8 0.8 2.9 2.9 7.
Restructuring costs In 2008, restructuring costs principally related to the closure of Power Transmissions facility at Moncks Corner, South Carolina, further rationalisation of the Lasco Bathware business in the US and the closure of Hart & Cooleys production facility at Tucson, Arizona, and further costs associated with outsourcing of IT services that began in 2007.
In 2007, restructuring costs principally related to the rationalisation of production facilities within the Lasco Bathware and Philips Products businesses in the US, the outsourcing of IT services, and the initiatives within the Fluid Power and Air Systems Components business groups that began in 2006.
In 2006, restructuring costs related to the transfer of the activities of Fluid Powers facility at St. Neots, UK to a new facility in the Czech Republic, the closure of Air Systems Components facility at Holland, Michigan in the US, and the closure of Stackpoles pump components facility and Air Systems Components facilities at Englewood, Ohio and Tabor City, North Carolina that began in 2005.
82 Notes to the financial statements continued 7.
Restructuring initiatives continued B. Disposals and exit of businesses In 2008, the Group recognised a gain of $43.2 million on the disposal of Stant and Standard-Thomson.
In 2007, the Group recognised a gain of $65.2 million on the disposal of Lasco Fittings Inc. a gain of $13.4 million on the disposal of Dearborn Mid-West and a loss of $2.6 million on the disposal of Tridon Electronics indicator and side object detection businesses.
Also during the year, the Group recognised a gain of $15.4 million on the disposal of Corporate property.
In 2006, the Group recognised a gain of $5.7 million on the sale of property, plant and equipment relating to businesses sold in previous years.
Year ended 3 January 2009 Year ended 29 December 2007 Year ended 30 December 2006 Disposals Disposals Disposals Restructuring and exit of Restructuring and exit of Restructuring and exit of costs businesses Total costs businesses Total costs businesses Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million By operating segment Industrial & Automotive: Power Transmission 13.8 13.8 6.0 0.2 5.8 11.7 5.9 5.8 Fluid Power 1.9 1.9 8.6 8.6 5.7 5.7 Fluid Systems 0.2 43.2 43.0 0.2 2.8 2.6 Other Industrial & Automotive 3.2 3.2 13.4 13.4 0.6 0.2 0.8 19.1 43.2 24.1 14.4 10.8 3.6 18.0 5.7 12.3 Building Products: Air Systems Components 3.6 3.6 7.4 7.4 5.9 0.2 6.1 Other Building Products 3.0 0.2 3.2 4.8 65.2 60.4 0.2 0.2 6.6 0.2 6.8 12.2 65.2 53.0 5.9 5.9 Corporate 0.3 0.3 1.0 15.4 14.4 26.0 43.0 17.0 27.6 91.4 63.8 23.9 5.7 18.2 Group financial statements 83 Group financial statements 8.
Staff costs The average number of persons employed by the Group, excluding the Companys Non-Executive Directors, was as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 Number Number Number By operating segment Continuing operations Industrial & Automotive: Power Transmission 9,347 9,298 9,102 Fluid Power 5,252 4,914 4,677 Fluid Systems 2,789 3,133 3,105 Other Industrial & Automotive 3,606 3,951 4,004 20,994 21,296 20,888 Building Products: Air Systems Components 8,624 8,836 8,692 Other Building Products 2,648 3,608 4,555 11,272 12,444 13,247 Corporate 158 145 145 32,424 33,885 34,280 Discontinued operations Industrial & Automotive: Wiper Systems 2,009 4,019 32,424 35,894 38,299 By location US 16,581 19,429 21,433 UK 1,933 1,892 1,874 Rest of Europe 3,035 2,913 2,714 Rest of the world 10,875 11,660 12,278 32,424 35,894 38,299 Staff costs recognised in the period were as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Wages and salaries 1,164.3 1,283.5 1,256.0 Social security costs 144.4 147.7 145.8 Pensions note 34 44.2 53.4 67.8 Other post-employment benefits note 34 1.1 0.4 0.7 Share-based incentives note 35 11.5 16.0 14.5 Termination benefits 13.8 6.8 9.5 1,379.3 1,507.8 1,492.9 Continuing operations 1,379.3 1,473.6 1,405.1 Discontinued operations 34.2 87.8 1,379.3 1,507.8 1,492.9 84 Notes to the financial statements continued 9.
Interest payable Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Borrowings: Interest on bank overdrafts 2.3 1.6 3.9 Interest on loans 42.6 57.3 62.9 Interest on interest rate swaps in designated hedging relationships: Payable 55.6 61.8 51.2 Receivable 47.2 54.6 50.1 Interest on interest rate swaps classed as held for trading: Payable 2.8 8.6 8.6 Receivable 2.2 10.4 11.2 53.9 64.3 65.3 Interest element of finance lease rentals 0.5 1.4 1.1 Other interest payable 5.0 0.1 0.5 59.4 65.8 66.9 Dividends payable on convertible cumulative preference shares 1.2 9.9 59.4 67.0 76.8 Post-employment benefits: Interest cost on benefit obligation note 34 78.4 77.3 72.8 137.8 144.3 149.6 Continuing operations 137.8 142.1 142.6 Discontinued operations 2.2 7.0 137.8 144.3 149.6 Interest rate swaps are used to manage the interest rate profile of the Groups borrowings.
Accordingly, net interest payable or receivable on interest rate swaps is included in interest payable.
Investment income Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Interest on bank deposits 9.6 8.4 8.8 Other interest receivable 2.7 3.4 3.8 12.3 11.8 12.6 Post-employment benefits: Expected return on plan assets note 34 75.5 76.2 66.2 87.8 88.0 78.8 Continuing operations 87.8 86.8 73.3 Discontinued operations 1.2 5.5 87.8 88.0 78.8 Group financial statements 85 Group financial statements 11.
Other finance expense Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Hedging activities: Gain on derivatives in designated hedging relationships 0.1 1.6 1.7 Loss on derivatives classed as held for trading 2.1 3.8 1.7 Loss on other instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 17.9 3.0 1.3 19.9 5.2 1.3 Other items: Loss on embedded derivatives 5.1 0.4 25.0 5.6 1.3 Other finance expense principally represents fair value gains and losses arising on financial instruments held by the Group to hedge its translational exposures where either the economic hedging relationship does not qualify for hedge accounting or to the extent that there is deemed to be ineffectiveness in a designated hedging relationship.
Other finance expense is wholly attributable to continuing operations.
Income tax expense Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Current tax UK corporation tax on profits for the period 13.7 2.2 2.0 Decrease in provision for uncertain tax positions 35.4 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 0.3 0.7 Total UK tax 13.4 2.2 36.7 Overseas tax on profits for the period 51.2 109.5 101.9 Decrease in provision for uncertain tax positions 3.2 4.0 57.4 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 2.6 8.2 0.6 Total overseas tax 50.6 97.3 43.9 Total current tax 37.2 99.5 7.2 Deferred tax Origination or reversal of temporary differences 108.2 128.1 28.8 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 4.7 9.8 51.7 Tax losses in the period not recognised 111.4 187.5 36.9 Other changes in unrecognised deferred tax assets 3.2 5.6 8.3 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 0.5 4.2 3.8 Total deferred tax 1.2 51.0 26.1 Income tax expense for the period 38.4 150.5 33.3 Continuing operations 38.4 139.9 65.6 Discontinued operations note 13 10.6 32.3 38.4 150.5 33.3 During 2006, there was a release of provisions for uncertain tax positions of $92.8 million as a result of tax planning, the clarification of tax legislation, the performance of certain studies and the change of views on the likely outcome of challenges by various tax authorities.
86 Notes to the financial statements continued 12.
Income tax expense continued The income tax expense for the period recognised in the income statement differs from the product of the loss profit before tax for the period and the rate of UK corporation tax as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Loss profit before tax: Continuing operations 7.6 525.4 448.6 Discontinued operations 56.1 53.6 7.6 469.3 395.0 UK corporation tax at 28.5% 2007: 30%: 2006: 30% on loss profit before tax 2.2 140.9 118.5 Permanent differences 48.7 3.4 25.1 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 2.4 12.4 4.0 Decrease in provisions for uncertain tax positions 3.2 4.0 92.8 Effect of different tax rates on overseas profits 7.1 20.6 24.0 Foreign tax credits 13.3 13.8 2.6 Temporary differences on investment in subsidiaries 0.5 160.7 41.6 Tax losses in the period not recognised 111.4 187.5 36.9 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 4.7 9.8 51.7 Other changes in unrecognised deferred tax assets 3.3 5.6 8.3 Income tax expense for the period 38.4 150.5 33.3 In addition to the income tax expense recognised in the income statement, an income tax benefit of $14.3 million 2007: expense of $12.6 million: 2006: expense of $1.8 million was recognised directly in equity.
Background Discontinued operations principally comprise the results and loss on disposal of Trico, the Groups former Wiper Systems business, that was sold on 29 June 2007.
In 2007, the Group recognised a loss of $59.6 million before tax on the disposal of Trico.
Also during 2007, the Group recognised a gain of $2.4 million before tax on the receipt of additional proceeds in relation to businesses sold in previous years.
After the attributable tax expense of $8.0 million, the loss on disposal of discontinued operations was $65.2 million.
In 2006, the Group recognised an impairment of $45.9 million when Trico was classified as held for sale and additional consideration of $4.6 million in relation to businesses sold in previous years.
After the attributable tax credit of $37.4 million, the loss on disposal of discontinued operations was $3.9 million.
Group financial statements 87 Group financial statements B.
Results and cash flows The loss for the period from discontinued operations may be analysed as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Loss for the period of discontinued operations Sales 157.6 343.8 Cost of sales 131.2 297.0 Gross profit 26.4 46.8 Distribution costs 12.8 24.6 Administrative expenses 9.9 21.1 Restructuring costs 1.6 11.9 Operating profit loss 2.1 10.8 Net finance costs 1.0 1.5 Profit loss before tax 1.1 12.3 Income tax expense 2.6 5.1 Loss after tax 1.5 17.4 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations Loss before tax 57.2 41.3 Income tax expense benefit 8.0 37.4 Loss after tax 65.2 3.9 Loss for the period from discontinued operations 66.7 21.3 Restructuring costs in each period relate to the transfer of manufacturing activities from the Wiper Systems facility at Pontypool, UK to more cost-competitive locations.
Cash flows arising from discontinued operations during the period were as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Cash inflow outflow from operating activities 7.3 0.7 Cash outflow inflow from investing activities 2.6 3.1 Cash outflow from financing activities 1.2 2.6 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents from discontinued operations 3.5 0.2 88 Notes to the financial statements continued 13.
Discontinued operations continued C. Segment sales and adjusted operating profit The segment sales and adjusted operating profit of discontinued operations may be analysed as follows: Sales Adjusted operating profit Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million By operating segment Industrial & Automotive: Wiper Systems 157.6 343.8 3.7 1.1 By origin US 123.1 261.1 5.1 10.0 UK 13.6 41.8 2.6 10.9 Rest of Europe 0.2 Rest of the world 20.9 40.7 1.2 2.0 157.6 343.8 3.7 1.1 By destination US 113.6 232.8 UK 7.5 14.5 Rest of Europe 9.3 29.0 Rest of the world 27.2 67.5 157.6 343.8 Reconciliation of the adjusted operating profit to the profit loss before tax of discontinued operations: Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Adjusted operating profit 3.7 1.1 Restructuring costs 1.6 11.9 Net finance costs 1.0 1.5 Profit loss before tax 1.1 12.3 Group financial statements 89 Group financial statements 14.
Loss profit for the period Loss profit for the period is stated after charging crediting : Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total $ million $ million $ million Year ended 3 January 2009 Inventories: Cost of inventories 3,659.1 3,659.1 Write-down of inventories 6.2 6.2 Staff costs note 8 1,379.3 1,379.3 Goodwill note 19 : Impairments recognised in operating profit 228.6 228.6 Other intangible assets note 20 : Amortisation 26.0 26.0 Property, plant and equipment note 21 : Depreciation 203.1 203.1 Impairments recognised in operating profit 113.8 113.8 Research and development costs 92.1 92.1 Government grants: Revenue 3.0 3.0 Capital 0.4 0.4 Net foreign exchange losses 9.8 9.8 Year ended 29 December 2007 Inventories: Cost of inventories 3,976.4 129.1 4,105.5 Write-down of inventories 7.4 0.6 8.0 Staff costs note 8 1,473.6 34.2 1,507.8 Goodwill note 19 : Impairments recognised in operating profit 0.8 0.8 Other intangible assets note 20 : Amortisation 20.6 20.6 Property, plant and equipment note 21 : Depreciation 215.9 215.9 Research and development costs 98.8 4.6 103.4 Government grants: Revenue 2.0 0.2 2.2 Capital 0.4 0.4 Net foreign exchange gains 1.0 0.6 1.6 Year ended 30 December 2006 Inventories: Cost of inventories 3,731.4 287.3 4,018.7 Write-down of inventories 10.4 2.4 12.8 Staff costs note 8 1,405.1 87.8 1,492.9 Goodwill note 19 : Impairments recognised in operating profit 2.9 2.9 Impairments recognised in loss on disposal of discontinued operations 7.5 7.5 Other intangible assets note 20 : Amortisation 24.2 0.2 24.4 Impairments recognised in loss on disposal of discontinued operations 0.4 0.4 Property, plant and equipment note 21 : Depreciation 194.3 13.9 208.2 Impairments recognised in loss on disposal of discontinued operations 38.0 38.0 Research and development costs 85.8 10.5 96.3 Government grants: Revenue 4.0 0.6 4.6 Capital 0.4 0.4 Net foreign exchange gains 2.2 1.3 3.5 90 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Basic and diluted loss earnings per share Basic loss earnings per share is calculated by dividing the loss profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders by the weighted average number of the Companys ordinary shares in issue during the period.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period excludes 4,002,675 shares 2007: 4,331,018 shares: 2006: 3,759,701 shares, being the weighted average number of own shares held during the period.
Diluted loss earnings per share takes into account the dilutive effect of options and awards outstanding under the Groups employee share schemes and, in prior years, the dilutive effect of the potential conversion of the Companys preference shares into the Companys ordinary shares.
The weighted average number of the Companys ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted loss earnings per share excludes the effect of options and awards over 21,476,725 shares 2007: 9,318,429 shares: 2006: 1,229,593 shares that were anti-dilutive for the periods presented but could dilute earnings per share in the future.
Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Continuing operations Loss profit for the period 46.0 385.5 383.0 Minority interests 18.1 25.0 20.5 Loss earnings for calculating basic loss earnings per share 64.1 360.5 362.5 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: Dividends payable on preference shares 1.2 9.9 Loss earnings for calculating diluted loss earnings per share 64.1 361.7 372.4 Discontinued operations Loss for the period for calculating basic and diluted loss per share 66.7 21.3 Continuing and discontinued operations Loss profit for the period 46.0 318.8 361.7 Minority interests 18.1 25.0 20.5 Loss earnings for calculating basic loss earnings per share 64.1 293.8 341.2 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: Dividends payable on preference shares 1.2 9.9 Loss earnings for calculating diluted loss earnings per share 64.1 295.0 351.1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares For calculating basic loss earnings per share 879,727,725 870,297,953 838,893,502 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: Share options and awards 4,018,619 5,173,658 Preference shares 9,714,541 39,759,222 For calculating diluted loss earnings per share 879,727,725 884,031,113 883,826,382 16.
Dividends on ordinary shares Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 per share per share per share Paid or proposed in respect of the period Interim dividend 11.02c 11.02c 10.13c Final dividend 2.00c 16.66c 17.13c 13.02c 27.68c 27.26c Group financial statements 91 Group financial statements Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Recognised in the period Interim dividend for the period of 11.02c 2007: 11.02c: 2006: 10.13c per share 97.1 97.0 86.6 Final dividend for the prior period of 16.66c 2007: 17.13c: 2006: 15.28c per share 149.1 150.3 130.7 246.2 247.3 217.3 Following the redenomination of the Companys share capital from sterling to US dollars, which became effective on 22 May 2008, the Companys dividends are declared in US dollars.
Dividends in respect of 2007 and prior years were declared and paid in sterling and have been translated into US dollars at the exchange rate on their respective payment dates.
The Directors propose a final dividend for 2008 of 2.00c per share that, subject to approval by shareholders, will be paid on 10 June 2009 to shareholders on the register on 8 May 2009.
Based on the number of ordinary shares currently in issue, the final dividend for 2008 is expected to absorb $17.6 million.
Auditors remuneration Fees payable by the Group to the Companys auditors, Deloitte LLP, and its associates were as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Audit fees: Audit of the Companys accounts 0.8 0.8 0.7 Audit of the accounts of the Companys subsidiaries 4.9 5.0 4.0 Other statutory services 0.2 0.2 2.4 5.9 6.0 7.1 Tax fees: Compliance services 0.7 0.5 0.4 Advisory services 2.1 1.2 0.7 2.8 1.7 1.1 All other fees 0.2 0.4 0.9 Total fees 8.9 8.1 9.1 Fees for the audit of the Companys accounts represent fees payable to Deloitte LLP in respect of the audit of the Companys individual financial statements and the Groups consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Other statutory services include the review of the Groups interim financial statements and, in 2006, the audit of the Groups consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP and fees associated with section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley.
In 2008 and 2007, fees associated with section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley are included in audit fees.
Other services include advice on accounting matters and non-statutory reporting.
The Audit Committee or, between meetings, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, pre-approves the engagement terms and fees of Deloitte LLP for all services.
This policy was applied for all services included in the table above.
Fees payable by associated pension schemes to Deloitte LLP and its associates were as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Statutory services: Audit of the pension schemes of the Companys subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 0.4 92 Notes to the financial statements continued 18.
Cash flow A. Reconciliation of loss profit for the period to cash generated from operations Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Loss profit for the period 46.0 318.8 361.7 Interest payable 137.8 144.3 149.6 Investment income 87.8 88.0 78.8 Other finance expense 25.0 5.6 1.3 Income tax expense 38.4 150.5 33.3 Profit from continuing and discontinued operations 67.4 531.2 467.1 Share of loss profit of associates 2.1 0.8 2.8 Amortisation of intangible assets 26.0 20.6 24.4 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 203.1 215.9 208.2 Impairments: Goodwill 228.6 0.8 2.9 Property, plant and equipment 113.8 Gain loss on disposal of businesses: Continuing operations 43.0 76.0 5.7 Discontinued operations 57.2 41.3 Loss gain on sale of property, plant and equipment 3.8 11.2 5.3 Gain on  1.2 0.6 0.4 Cost of share-based incentives 11.5 16.0 14.5 Decrease in post-employment benefit obligations 49.5 74.2 63.8 Decrease in provisions 3.7 2.4 17.7 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 558.9 676.5 673.3 Increase in inventories 12.8 20.0 37.4 Decrease increase in receivables 143.8 74.0 18.4 Decrease increase in payables 61.2 56.2 9.7 Cash generated from operations 628.7 638.7 607.8 B. Reconciliation of net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents to movement in net debt Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Net debt at the beginning of the period 591.5 920.8 1,101.0 Decrease increase in net debt resulting from cash flows: Increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 19.2 65.7 96.4 Increase decrease in debt and lease financing 96.2 284.7 47.5 Redemption of preference shares 1.2 Decrease in collateralised cash 0.7 2.4 2.6 77.7 217.8 146.5 Conversion of preference shares 130.0 390.7 Leases disposed of on sale of businesses 6.1 Debt acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries 0.8 Other non-cash movements 1.1 1.6 2.0 Foreign currency translation 194.7 23.0 66.0 Decrease in net debt during the period 115.1 329.3 180.2 Net debt at the end of the period 476.4 591.5 920.8 Group financial statements 93 Group financial statements 19.
Analysis of movements $ million Cost As at 30 December 2006 637.3 Acquisition of subsidiaries 8.0 Foreign currency translation 31.5 As at 29 December 2007 660.8 Acquisition of subsidiaries note 44 8.4 Foreign currency translation 40.0 As at 3 January 2009 629.2 Accumulated impairment As at 30 December 2006 Impairments 0.8 As at 29 December 2007 0.8 Impairments 228.6 Foreign currency translation 16.1 As at 3 January 2009 213.3 Carrying amount As at 29 December 2007 660.0 As at 3 January 2009 415.9 94 Notes to the financial statements continued 19.
Goodwill continued B. Allocation of goodwill Goodwill is allocated to the following CGUs or groups of CGUs: As at As at 3 January 29 December 2009 2007 $ million $ million Industrial & Automotive Power Transmission: Stackpole 176.4 Mectrol 37.4 213.8 Fluid Power Engineering & Services 24.7 16.9 Others 18.2 19.1 42.9 36.0 Fluid Systems 1.8 5.4 Other Industrial & Automotive: Ideal 20.9 20.9 Dexter Group 50.8 50.8 Winhere 2.2 2.2 73.9 73.9 118.6 329.1 Building Products Air Systems Components: Air Systems Components 67.7 64.7 Hart & Cooley 146.0 146.0 Ruskin 36.2 38.8 Selkirk 38.3 72.3 288.2 321.8 Other Building Products: Bathware 9.1 9.1 297.3 330.9 415.9 660.0 C. Impairment tests Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and whenever there are indications that it may have suffered an impairment.
Goodwill is considered impaired to the extent that its carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of the value in use and the fair value less costs to sell of the CGU or group of CGUs to which it is allocated.
In all impairment tests of goodwill performed during 2008, the recoverable amount was determined based on value in use calculations.
Management based the value in use calculations on cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent three-year financial plans approved by the Board, in which the principal assumptions were those regarding sales growth rates, selling prices and changes in direct costs.
Cash flows for the years beyond the three-year financial plans for the CGUs to which individually significant amounts of goodwill were allocated were calculated as follows: cash flows in the fourth and fifth years were estimated by management based on relevant industry and economic forecasts: thereafter, the cash flows were projected to grow at 2% per annum, which does not exceed expected long-term growth rates in their principal end markets in North America and Europe.
Management applied discount rates to the resulting cash flow projections that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGU or group of CGUs.
In each case, the discount rate was determined using a capital asset pricing model.
Pre-tax discount rates used in the annual impairment tests of goodwill during 2008 were in the following ranges: Industrial & Automotive businesses 9.0% to 12.9%: and Building Products businesses 11.2% to 13.0%.
Group financial statements 95 Group financial statements D. Impairments recognised during the year During 2008, impairments totalling $228.6 million were recognised in relation to the goodwill allocated to Stackpole, Gates Mectrol and Selkirk.
Stackpole manufactures power transmission components, systems and assemblies, principally for automotive OEMs, at its facilities in Canada, Germany and South Korea.
At the time of the last annual impairment test of goodwill, the recoverable amount of Stackpole only marginally exceeded its carrying amount.
During the first half of 2008, there was a deterioration in Stackpoles end markets and an impairment of $90.5 million was recognised in relation to the goodwill allocated to the business.
During the second half of 2008, the further deterioration on Stackpoles end markets caused the impairment of the remaining goodwill allocated to the business, which amounted to $66.7 million.
Management used a pre-tax discount rate of 11.7% 2007: 9.7%.
Gates Mectrol manufactures power transmission and motion control belts, principally for industrial and automotive OEMs, at its facilities in the US and Germany.
During the second half of 2008, the deterioration in Gates Mectrols end markets caused the impairment of the entire goodwill allocated to the business, which amounted to $37.4 million.
Management used a pre-tax discount rate of 11.7% 2007: 10.6%.
Selkirk manufactures chimney, venting and air distribution products, principally for the residential construction market in North America.
During 2008, there was a further deterioration in Selkirks end markets and an impairment of $34.0 million was recognised in relation to the goodwill allocated to the business.
Management used a pre-tax discount rate of 12.5% 2007: 10.8%.
Impairments recognised during the year are analysed by operating segment in note 6.
E. Sensitivity to changes in key assumptions Individually significant CGUs At the end of 2008, the recoverable amount of Selkirk equalled its carrying amount.
Management has assessed the sensitivity of the recoverable amount of Selkirk to key assumptions to be as follows: a one percentage point increase in the applicable pre-tax discount rate of 12.5% would reduce the recoverable amount by $15 million: a one percentage point fall in Selkirks operating margin would reduce the recoverable amount by $13 million: and a one percentage point fall in the assumed long-term growth rate of 2% would reduce the recoverable amount by $10 million.
Management considers that, of the other CGUs or groups of CGUs to which significant amounts of goodwill are allocated, only the recoverable amount of Hart & Cooley may fall below its carrying amount due to reasonably possible changes during the next year in one or more key assumptions.
At the end of 2008, the recoverable amount of Hart & Cooley exceeded its carrying amount by $38 million.
Management has assessed the sensitivity of the recoverable amount of Hart & Cooley to key assumptions to be as follows: a one percentage point increase in the applicable pre-tax discount rate of 12.4% would reduce the recoverable amount by $32 million: a one percentage point fall in Hart & Cooleys operating margin would reduce the recoverable amount by $23 million: and a one percentage point fall in the assumed long-term growth rate of 2% would reduce the recoverable amount by $23 million.
Other CGUs Management does not consider that a reasonably possible change in one or more key assumptions during the next year could cause the aggregate recoverable amount of other CGUs to fall below their aggregate carrying amount.
96 Notes to the financial statements continued 20.
Other intangible assets Assets Development arising on Computer costs acquisitions software Total $ million $ million $ million $ million Cost As at 30 December 2006 1.4 47.4 123.7 172.5 Additions 0.4 5.2 5.6 Acquisition of subsidiaries 10.8 0.2 11.0 Transfer to assets held for sale 2.8 2.8 Disposals 5.0 5.0 Foreign currency translation 3.2 1.7 4.9 As at 29 December 2007 1.8 61.4 123.0 186.2 Additions 0.6 10.4 11.0 Acquisition of subsidiaries 37.4 37.4 Disposals 1.1 1.1 Foreign currency translation 0.6 7.4 1.9 9.9 As at 3 January 2009 1.8 91.4 130.4 223.6 Accumulated amortisation As at 30 December 2006 5.5 72.8 78.3 Amortisation charge for the period 0.2 7.2 13.2 20.6 Transfer to assets held for sale 2.4 2.4 Disposals 5.0 5.0 Foreign currency translation 0.7 0.9 1.6 As at 29 December 2007 0.2 13.4 79.5 93.1 Amortisation charge for the period 0.2 10.6 15.2 26.0 Disposals 1.1 1.1 Foreign currency translation 0.2 1.3 1.7 3.2 As at 3 January 2009 0.2 22.7 91.9 114.8 Carrying amount As at 29 December 2007 1.6 48.0 43.5 93.1 As at 3 January 2009 1.6 68.7 38.5 108.8 Intangible assets arising on acquisitions principally represent acquired customer relationships.
All intangible assets included above have finite useful lives.
Group financial statements 97 Group financial statements 21.
Property, plant and equipment Plant, Land and equipment Assets under buildings and vehicles construction Total $ million $ million $ million $ million Cost As at 30 December 2006 689.9 2,381.1 82.8 3,153.8 Additions 5.8 55.4 161.7 222.9 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1.2 5.8 7.0 Disposal of subsidiaries 6.0 6.0 Transfer from assets under construction 14.0 130.7 144.7 Transfer to assets held for sale 13.4 74.2 87.6 Disposals 27.8 87.8 1.2 116.8 Foreign currency translation 29.8 158.7 6.0 194.5 As at 29 December 2007 699.5 2,563.7 104.6 3,367.8 Additions 11.2 42.6 126.8 180.6 Acquisition of subsidiaries 5.8 3.4 9.2 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.2 0.2 Transfer from assets under construction 16.1 132.5 148.6 Transfer from assets held for sale 6.2 6.2 Disposals 6.1 90.4 1.4 97.9 Foreign currency translation 41.3 237.8 6.0 285.1 As at 3 January 2009 691.4 2,413.8 75.4 3,180.6 Accumulated depreciation and impairment As at 30 December 2006 241.5 1,552.1 1,793.6 Depreciation charge for the period 22.2 193.7 215.9 Disposal of subsidiaries 3.8 3.8 Transfer to assets held for sale 6.8 57.0 63.8 Disposals 13.0 78.2 91.2 Foreign currency translation 9.0 93.7 102.7 As at 29 December 2007 252.9 1,700.5 1,953.4 Depreciation charge for the period 22.9 180.2 203.1 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 Transfer from assets held for sale 3.5 3.5 Disposals 3.6 83.9 87.5 Impairments 10.1 103.7 113.8 Foreign currency translation 10.7 162.2 172.9 As at 3 January 2009 275.1 1,738.2 2,013.3 Carrying amount As at 29 December 2007 446.6 863.2 104.6 1,414.4 As at 3 January 2009 416.3 675.6 75.4 1,167.3 During 2008, against the background of the weakness of the Groups end markets, particularly the automotive original equipment markets in North America and Europe and the residential construction market in North America, management reviewed the recoverability of the assets of the Groups businesses that are exposed to those markets.
As a result of that review, the following impairments, totalling $113.8 million, were recognised in relation to property, plant and equipment: i $65.9 million on the assets of Stackpole, that was based on the value in use of the business determined by applying a pre-tax discount rate of 11.7%: ii $16.8 million on the assets of Gates pulley and tensioners manufacturing facility at London, Ontario in Canada, that was based on fair value less costs to sell subsequent to the year end, management announced its intention to close the facility : iii $11.0 million on the assets of Philips Products Inc. which manufactures doors, windows and ventilating devices in the US, that was based on fair value less costs to sell: and iv $20.1 million, principally on the assets of businesses in Europe none of these impairments was individually significant.
Where the impairment was based on fair value less costs to sell, fair value was based either on indicative offers made by potential acquirers of the business concerned or on the estimated current market values of the individual assets.
98 Notes to the financial statements continued 21.
Property, plant and equipment continued Land and buildings include freehold land with a carrying value of $63.5 million 29 December 2007: $68.0 million that is not depreciated.
As at 3 January 2009, the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment included $9.9 million 29 December 2007: $12.6 million in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The Groups obligations under finance leases, which are analysed in note 30, are secured by a lessors charge over the leased assets.
Investments in associates Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Carrying amount At the beginning of the period 17.7 13.7 7.6 Share of loss profit of associates 2.1 0.8 2.8 Dividends received from associates 0.6 1.4 0.6 15.0 13.1 9.8 Additions 10.4 3.8 3.5 Disposals 1.9 Foreign currency translation 3.2 0.8 0.4 At the end of the period 20.3 17.7 13.7 Details of the Groups principal associates are set out on page 152.
Segment analysis of the Groups investments in associates and of its share of associates loss profit for the period: Investments in associates Share of loss profit of associates As at As at Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million By operating segment Industrial & Automotive: Power Transmission 13.0 7.0 2.9 0.2 Fluid Systems 3.8 6.3 0.7 0.6 2.6 Other Industrial & Automotive 0.5 0.6 0.2 0.2 0.4 17.3 13.9 2.0 0.8 2.8 Building Products: Air Systems Components 3.0 3.8 0.1 20.3 17.7 2.1 0.8 2.8 By location US 3.4 3.4 Rest of the world 16.9 14.3 20.3 17.7 In 2008, the aggregate sales of the Groups associates were $232.3 million 2007: $174.2 million and their aggregate loss for the period was $11.5 million 2007: profit of $2.6 million.
As at 3 January 2009, the aggregate total assets of the Groups associates was $117.0 million 29 December 2007: $78.9 million and the aggregate total of their liabilities was $51.7 million 29 December 2007: $41.3 million.
Schrader Duncan Limited, an associate in which the Group owns a 50% interest, is listed on the Mumbai Stock Exchange.
As at 3 January 2009, the fair value of the Groups investment based on the quoted market price of the associates shares was $3.1 million 29 December 2007: $12.8 million.
Group financial statements 99 Group financial statements 23.
Inventories As at As at 3 January 29 December 2009 2007 $ million $ million Raw materials and supplies 265.4 264.3 Work in progress 83.9 94.5 Finished goods and goods held for resale 423.1 441.0 772.4 799.8 As at 3 January 2009, inventories are stated net of an allowance for excess, obsolete or slow-moving items of $45.1 million 29 December 2007: $43.4 million.
Trade and other receivables As at As at 3 January 29 December 2009 2007 $ million $ million Current assets Financial assets: Trade receivables note 25 684.4 858.5 Derivative financial instruments note 32 1.1 5.6 Collateralised cash 3.8 5.8 Other receivables 37.0 74.0 726.3 943.9 Non-financial assets: Prepayments 43.4 45.2 769.7 989.1 Non-current assets Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments note 32 73.4 6.2 Other receivables 32.5 18.7 105.9 24.9 Collateralised cash represents cash given as collateral under letters of credit for insurance and regulatory purposes.
The Group is the beneficiary of a number of corporate-owned life assurance policies against which it borrows from the relevant life assurance company.
As at 3 January 2009, the surrender value of the policies was $518.6 million 29 December 2007: $468.9 million and the amount outstanding on the related loans was $516.5 million 29 December 2007: $466.9 million.
For accounting purposes, these amounts are offset and the net receivable of $2.1 million 29 December 2007: $2.0 million is included in other receivables.
100 Notes to the financial statements continued 25.
Trade receivables Trade receivables amounted to $684.4 million 29 December 2007: $858.5 million, net of an allowance of $11.4 million 29 December 2007: $11.0 million for doubtful debts.
The Group has a significant concentration of customers in the US, who accounted for 57.6% 2007: 63.1%: 2006: 66.8% of the Groups sales during the period, and in the automotive industry, which accounted for 41.9% 2007: 40.9%: 2006: 36.3% of the Groups sales during the period.
However, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Groups sales and there were no significant amounts due from any one customer.
Before accepting a new customer, the Group assesses the potential customers credit quality and establishes a credit limit.
Credit quality is assessed by using data maintained by reputable credit rating agencies, by checking of references included in credit applications and, where they are available, by reviewing the customers recent financial statements.
Credit limits are subject to multiple levels of authorisation and are reviewed on a regular basis.
Trade receivables are regularly reviewed for bad and doubtful debts.
Bad debts are written-off and an allowance is established for specific doubtful debts.
Trade receivables may be analysed as follows: As at As at 3 January 29 December 2009 2007 $ million $ million Amounts neither past due nor impaired 554.1 738.0 Amounts past due but not impaired: Less than 30 days old 7.0 9.2 Between 30 and 60 days old 64.6 53.8 Between 61 and 90 days old 30.0 22.3 More than 90 days old 24.2 29.1 125.8 114.4 Amounts impaired: Total amounts that have been impaired 15.9 17.1 Allowance for doubtful debts 11.4 11.0 4.5 6.1 684.4 858.5 Movements in the allowance for doubtful debts were as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million At the beginning of the period 11.0 10.2 13.6 Charge for the period 6.0 1.8 1.7 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.3 Transfer to assets held for sale 2.8 Utilised during the period 4.4 1.4 3.1 Foreign currency translation 1.5 0.4 0.8 At the end of the period 11.4 11.0 10.2 Trade receivables are not generally interest-bearing although interest may be charged to customers on overdue accounts.
Group financial statements 101 Group financial statements 26.
Available-for-sale investments $ million Carrying amount As at 30 December 2006 4.1 Additions 0.2 Fair value loss recognised directly in equity 0.8 Disposals 0.6 Foreign currency translation 0.1 As at 29 December 2007 3.0 Additions 0.1 Fair value loss recognised directly in equity 1.0 Disposals 1.6 Foreign currency translation 0.3 As at 3 January 2009 0.8 Available-for-sale investments comprise listed equities.
Cash and cash equivalents As at As at 3 January 29 December 2009 2007 $ million $ million Cash on hand and demand deposits 213.2 230.8 Term deposits 78.7 65.1 291.9 295.9 As at 3 January 2009, the carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents included accrued interest receivable of $nil 29 December 2007: $0.4 million.
The currency and interest rate profile of cash and cash equivalents was as follows: Floating interest rate Weighted average Non-interest interest rate bearing Total $ million % $ million $ million As at 3 January 2009 Currency: US dollar 91.2 0.3% 22.1 113.3 Sterling 4.3 2.7% 0.6 4.9 Euro 25.4 2.1% 1.2 26.6 Canadian dollar 15.0 1.6% 15.0 Other 116.1 3.5% 16.0 132.1 252.0 39.9 291.9 As at 29 December 2007 Currency: US dollar 79.7 3.6% 6.2 85.9 Sterling 17.9 4.9% 2.2 20.1 Euro 22.5 3.0% 1.2 23.7 Canadian dollar 15.6 3.6% 15.6 Other 134.3 3.4% 16.3 150.6 270.0 25.9 295.9 102 Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Assets held for sale As at 29 December 2007, Stant Manufacturing, Inc. a manufacturer of automotive closure caps, and Standard-Thomson Corporation, a manufacturer of automotive thermostats, were classified as held for sale.
Both businesses, which were included in the Fluid Systems business segment, were sold on 19 June 2008.
Assets classified as held for sale and directly associated liabilities were as follows: As at As at 3 January 29 December 2009 2007 $ million $ million Assets held for sale Intangible assets 0.6 Property, plant and equipment 35.7 Inventories 15.5 Trade and other receivables 39.1 90.9 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale Trade and other payables 22.1 Post-employment benefit obligations 2.4 Deferred tax liabilities 2.2 Provisions 1.4 28.1 62.8 As at 29 December 2007, a cumulative currency translation loss of $7.1 million was recognised in equity in relation to foreign operations classified as held for sale.
Borrowings As at 3 January 2009 As at 29 December 2007 Current Non-current Current Non-current liabilities liabilities Total liabilities liabilities Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Carrying amount Bank overdrafts 13.7 13.7 15.7 15.7 Bank and other loans: Bank loans secured 0.2 0.2 unsecured 20.9 129.5 150.4 28.7 35.9 64.6 Other loans unsecured 8.3 633.4 641.7 10.5 784.6 795.1 Unsecured loan notes 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.4 29.5 762.9 792.4 39.8 820.5 860.3 43.2 762.9 806.1 55.5 820.5 876.0 The carrying amount of borrowings may be reconciled to the principal amount outstanding as follows: As at As at 3 January 29 December 2009 2007 $ million $ million Carrying amount 806.1 876.0 Accrued interest payable 7.8 9.7 Unamortised transaction costs 2.6 4.4 Fair value hedge adjustment note 32 51.9 7.4 Principal amount 749.0 878.1 The maturity analysis of the principal amount outstanding is presented in note 33.
Group financial statements 103 Group financial statements Bank loans Bank loans include amounts drawn down under the Groups 400 million multi-currency revolving credit facility amounting to $129.3 million 29 December 2007: $35.9 million.
Borrowings under the facility attract interest at floating rates determined by reference to LIBOR and the facility expires on 8 August 2010.
Other loans The Group has issued two bonds under the EMTN Programme: 150 million repayable at par on 20 December 2011 that bears interest at a fixed rate of 8%: and 250 million repayable at par on 16 September 2015 that bears interest at a fixed rate of 6.125%.
Unsecured loan notes The unsecured loan notes must be repaid, at par, on 30 June 2012.
Until that time, in certain circumstances, the noteholders have the right to require full or part repayment, at par, half-yearly on 30 June and 31 December and for this reason they are classified as current liabilities.
Currency and interest rate profile The currency and interest rate profile of outstanding borrowings, after taking into account the effect of the Groups currency and interest rate hedging activities, was as follows: Floating interest rate Fixed interest rate Interest-free Weighted Weighted Weighted average period average average for which interest rate interest rate rate is fixed Total $ million % $ million % Years $ million $ million As at 3 January 2009 Currency: US dollar 360.6 3.7% 65.0 4.6% 1.5 years 0.3 425.9 Sterling 52.0 5.5% 1.0 53.0 Euro 116.2 4.5% 116.2 Canadian dollar 119.4 4.6% 119.4 Other 91.2 6.9% 0.3 3.5% 8.0 years 0.1 91.6 739.4 65.3 1.4 806.1 As at 29 December 2007 Currency: US dollar 440.8 7.7% 64.9 7.7% 4.8 years 0.4 506.1 Sterling 35.7 5.6% 1.2 36.9 Euro 95.3 7.7% 6.6 2.5% 3.0 years 101.9 Canadian dollar 168.2 7.7% 168.2 Other 60.5 8.1% 2.4 13.1% 2.6 years 62.9 800.5 73.9 1.6 876.0 104 Notes to the financial statements continued 30.
Obligations under finance leases Minimum lease payments Carrying amount As at As at As at As at 3 January 29 December 3 January 29 December 2009 2007 2009 2007 $ million $ million $ million $ million Amounts payable under finance leases Within one year 1.9 2.4 1.5 1.8 In the second to fifth years, inclusive 4.0 5.8 2.8 4.6 After more than five years 3.6 4.6 2.6 3.2 9.5 12.8 6.9 9.6 Less: Future finance charges 2.6 3.2 6.9 9.6 6.9 9.6 The Group leases certain of its plant, equipment and vehicles under finance leases.
All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
As at 3 January 2009, the average effective interest rate was 6.6% 29 December 2007: 6.4%.
The Groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors title to the leased assets.
Trade and other payables As at As at 3 January 29 December 2009 2007 $ million $ million Current liabilities Financial liabilities: Trade payables 384.9 432.9 Other taxes and social security 23.7 35.9 Derivative financial instruments note 32 15.7 3.4 Other payables 26.1 41.9 450.4 514.1 Non-financial liabilities: Accruals and deferred income 199.7 224.6 650.1 738.7 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments note 32 30.4 13.2 Other payables 17.7 18.5 48.1 31.7 Non-financial liabilities: Accruals and deferred income 3.5 11.5 51.6 43.2 Trade payables are generally not interest-bearing but interest may be charged by suppliers on overdue accounts.
Group financial statements 105 Group financial statements 32.
Summary Derivative financial instruments are held in relation to the Groups financial risk management policy which is described in note 33.
The Group does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
The carrying amount of derivative financial instruments held by the Group was as follows: As at 3 January 2009 As at 29 December 2007 Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Hedging activities Translational hedges: Currency forwards 10.7 30.4 19.7 13.2 13.2 Interest rate swaps 62.7 2.1 60.6 6.2 0.6 5.6 73.4 32.5 40.9 6.2 13.8 7.6 Transactional hedges: Currency forwards and swaps 1.1 13.6 12.5 0.6 2.8 2.2 74.5 46.1 28.4 6.8 16.6 9.8 Other items Embedded derivatives 5.0 5.0 74.5 46.1 28.4 11.8 16.6 4.8 Classified as: Current 1.1 15.7 14.6 5.6 3.4 2.2 Non-current 73.4 30.4 43.0 6.2 13.2 7.0 74.5 46.1 28.4 11.8 16.6 4.8 B.
Currency derivatives As at 3 January 2009, the notional principal amount of outstanding foreign exchange contracts that are used to manage the currency profile of the Groups net assets was $888.7 million 29 December 2007: $1,167.4 million.
The Group has designated these contracts as net investment hedges.
During 2008, the net fair value gain of $57.2 million 2007: net loss of $31.0 million: 2006: net gain of $79.8 million in relation to these contracts was recognised directly in equity.
Prior to the change in its presentation currency at the beginning of 2008, the Group also designated as net investment hedges the US dollar borrowings under the multi-currency revolving credit facility and, before their redemption in July 2007, the Companys US dollar denominated preference shares.
During 2007, the net currency translation gain of $3.8 million 2006: net gain of $47.8 million arising on these instruments was recognised directly in equity.
The currency profile of the Groups net assets after taking into account translation hedges is presented in note 33.
During 2008, a net loss of $17.9 million 2007: net loss of $3.0 million: 2006: net loss of $1.3 million was recognised within other finance expense in respect of currency translation hedges that did not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39.
Also during 2008, a net fair value loss of $9.4 million 2007: net loss of $4.0 million: 2006: net loss of $1.3 million was recognised within operating profit in respect of currency derivatives that were held to provide an economic hedge of transactional currency exposures but were not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.
106 Notes to the financial statements continued 32.
Derivative financial instruments continued C. Interest rate swaps Interest rate swaps are used to swap borrowings under the Groups EMTN Programme from fixed interest rates to floating interest rates.
As at 3 January 2009, the nominal value of the contracts outstanding was 400 million 29 December 2007: 400 million.
The Group has designated these contracts as fair value hedges in relation to the borrowings.
During 2008, the Group recognised a net fair value gain of $75.7 million 2007: net gain of $7.0 million: 2006: net loss of $36.3 million in relation to these contracts and the carrying amount of the hedged borrowings was increased by $75.6 million 2007: increased by $5.4 million: 2006: reduced by $38.0 million to reflect the change in the fair value of the borrowings attributable to the hedged risk and the amortisation of the transitional adjustment that was recognised on adoption of IAS 39.
During 2008, a net gain of $0.1 million 2007: net gain of $1.6 million: 2006: net gain of $1.7 million was therefore recognised within other finance expense in relation to these hedges.
Interest rate swaps are also used to restrict the amount of floating rate US dollar debt.
As at 3 January 2009, the nominal value of these contracts held was $65.0 million 29 December 2007: $130.0 million.
During 2008, a net fair value loss of $2.1 million 2007: net loss of $3.8 million: 2006: net loss of $1.7 million was recognised within other finance expense in relation to these contracts that did not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39.
The profile of interest rate swaps held by the Group was as follows: Interest rate Payable Receivable Notional principal amount Variable million Variable Fixed Variable Fixed rate index As at 3 January 2009 Maturity date: December 2011 150.0 5.7% 8.0% 6 month LIBOR September 2015 250.0 4.0% 6.1% 3 month LIBOR December 2009 $65.0 4.6% 1.5% 3 month LIBOR As at 29 December 2007 Maturity date: December 2011 150.0 8.6% 8.0% 6 month LIBOR September 2015 250.0 7.2% 6.1% 3 month LIBOR June 2008 $65.0 3.8% 4.9% 3 month LIBOR December 2009 commencing June 2008 $65.0 4.6% 3 month LIBOR 33.
Risk management policies The Groups central treasury function is responsible for procuring the Groups capital resources and maintaining an efficient capital structure, together with managing the Groups liquidity, foreign exchange and interest rate exposures.
All treasury operations are conducted within strict policies and guidelines that are approved by the Board.
Compliance with those policies and guidelines is monitored by the regular reporting of treasury activities to the Board.
A key element of the Groups treasury philosophy is that funding, interest rate and currency decisions and the location of cash and debt balances are determined independently of each other.
The Groups borrowing requirements are met by raising funds in the most favourable markets.
Management aims to retain net debt in proportion to the currencies in which the net assets of the Groups operations are denominated.
The desired currency profile of net debt is achieved by entering into currency derivative contracts.
The proportion of investments in foreign operations effectively funded by shareholders equity is not hedged.
The net income of foreign operations is not hedged but the effect of currency fluctuations on the Groups reported net income is partly offset by interest payable on net debt denominated in foreign currencies.
From time to time, the Group also enters into currency derivative contracts to manage currency transaction exposures.
The Groups interest rate profile is managed within the policy established by the Board.
The desired interest rate profile of net debt in each currency is achieved by entering into interest rate derivative contracts.
Group financial statements 107 Group financial statements The Groups portfolio of cash and cash equivalents is managed such that there is no significant concentration of credit risk in any one bank or other financial institution.
Management monitors closely the credit quality of the institutions with which it holds deposits.
Similar considerations are given to the Groups portfolio of derivative financial instruments.
The Groups borrowing facilities are monitored against forecast requirements and timely action is taken to put in place, renew or replace credit lines.
Managements policy is to reduce liquidity risk by diversifying the Groups funding sources and by staggering the maturity of its borrowings.
The Group has established long-term credit ratings of Baa3 Stable with Moodys and BBB Stable with Standard & Poors and short-term credit ratings of P-3 with Moodys and A-2 with Standard & Poors.
Management aims to achieve an appropriate mix of debt and equity to ensure an efficient capital structure and to preserve these ratings.
Disclosures about the Groups capital are set out in note 43.
Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities analysed by the categories defined in IAS 39 were as follows: Fair value through profit or loss Liabilities Designated Total Loans and Availableat amortised hedging carrying Fair receivables for-sale cost relationships Trading value value $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million As at 3 January 2009 Financial assets Trade and other receivables: Non-derivative assets 757.7 757.7 757.7 Derivative assets 73.4 1.1 74.5 74.5 757.7 73.4 1.1 832.2 832.2 Available-for-sale investments 0.8 0.8 0.8 Cash and cash equivalents 291.9 291.9 291.9 1,049.6 0.8 73.4 1.1 1,124.9 1,124.9 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables: Non-derivative liabilities 452.4 452.4 452.4 Derivative liabilities 32.5 13.6 46.1 46.1 452.4 32.5 13.6 498.5 498.5 Bank overdrafts 13.7 13.7 13.7 Bank and other loans: Current 29.5 29.5 29.0 Non-current 711.0 51.9 762.9 583.4 Obligations under finance leases 6.9 6.9 6.9 1,213.5 84.4 13.6 1,311.5 1,131.5 1,049.6 0.8 1,213.5 11.0 12.5 186.6 6.6 108 Notes to the financial statements continued 33.
Financial assets and liabilities continued Fair value through profit or loss Liabilities Designated Total Loans and Availableat amortised hedging carrying Fair receivables for-sale cost relationships Trading value value $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million As at 29 December 2007 Financial assets Trade and other receivables: Non-derivative assets 957.0 957.0 957.0 Derivative assets 6.2 5.6 11.8 11.8 957.0 6.2 5.6 968.8 968.8 Available-for-sale investments 3.0 3.0 3.0 Cash and cash equivalents 295.9 295.9 295.9 1,252.9 3.0 6.2 5.6 1,267.7 1,267.7 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables: Non-derivative liabilities 529.2 529.2 529.2 Derivative liabilities 13.2 3.4 16.6 16.6 529.2 13.2 3.4 545.8 545.8 Bank overdrafts 15.7 15.7 15.7 Bank and other loans: Current 39.8 39.8 39.8 Non-current 827.9 7.4 820.5 827.4 Obligations under finance leases 9.6 9.6 9.6 1,422.2 5.8 3.4 1,431.4 1,438.3 1,252.9 3.0 1,422.2 0.4 2.2 163.7 170.6 Available-for-sale investments are listed and are valued by reference to quoted market prices.
Cash and cash equivalents and current bank and other loans largely attract floating interest rates.
Accordingly, their carrying amounts are considered to approximate to fair value.
Non-current bank and other loans principally comprise borrowings under the Groups multi-currency revolving credit facility that attract floating interest rates, the carrying amount of which is considered to approximate to fair value, and the listed bonds issued under the EMTN Programme, the fair value of which is based on their quoted market prices.
Finance lease obligations attract fixed interest rates that are implicit in the lease rentals and their fair value has been assessed by reference to prevailing market interest rates.
Derivative assets and liabilities represent the fair value of foreign currency derivatives and interest rate derivatives held by the Group at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currency derivatives are valued by reference to prevailing forward exchange rates.
Interest rate derivatives are valued by discounting the related cash flows using prevailing market interest rates.
Group financial statements 109 Group financial statements C. Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
Management considers the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk to be as follows: As at As at 3 January 29 December 2009 2007 $ million $ million Trade and other receivables: Derivative assets 74.5 11.8 Non-derivative assets 757.7 957.0 832.2 968.8 Cash and cash equivalents 291.9 295.9 1,124.1 1,264.7 As at 3 January 2009, 92% 29 December 2007: 86% of the Groups cash and cash equivalents were held with institutions rated at least A-1 by Standard & Poors and P-1 by Moodys.
Credit risk disclosures with respect to trade receivables are set out in note 25.
D. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that an entity will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with financial liabilities.
As at 3 January 2009, the Group had undrawn committed borrowing facilities of $455.1 million 29 December 2007: $761.3 million available under the multi-currency revolving credit facility that expires on 8 August 2010.
Borrowings under this facility are at prevailing LIBOR rates, plus an agreed margin, dependent on the period of drawdown.
In addition, the Group had uncommitted borrowing facilities of $495.4 million 29 December 2007: $507.6 million, of which $34.7 million 29 December 2007: $44.8 million had been drawn down for cash.
Consequently, the Groups committed borrowing headroom was $420.4 million 29 December 2007: $532.4 million in addition to cash and cash equivalents of $291.9 million 29 December 2007: $295.9 million.
The Group also had outstanding performance bonds, letters of credit and bank guarantees amounting to $164.5 million 29 December 2007: $184.1 million.
The Group is subject to covenants, representations and warranties commonly associated with investment grade borrowings in respect of its committed borrowing facilities and bonds issued under the EMTN Programme.
The Group is subject to two financial covenants in respect of its committed borrowing facilities that are calculated by applying UK GAAP extant as at 31 December 2002.
The ratio of net debt to consolidated earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation must not exceed 2.5 times at the end of 2008, the ratio was 0.8 times.
The ratio of consolidated operating profit to the consolidated net interest charge must not be less than 3.0 times for 2008, the ratio was 7.5 times.
The Group complied with the borrowing covenants throughout each of the periods presented in the financial statements.
Any future non-compliance with the borrowing covenants could, if not waived, constitute an event of default and may, in certain circumstances, lead to an acceleration of the maturity of borrowings drawn down and the inability to access committed facilities.
110 Notes to the financial statements continued 33.
Financial risk management continued D. Liquidity risk continued Contractual cash flows related to the Groups financial liabilities are as follows: Between Between Between Between Within 1 and 2 2 and 3 3 and 4 4 and 5 After 1 year years years years years 5 years Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million As at 3 January 2009 Bank overdrafts 13.6 13.6 Bank and other loans: Principal 20.9 129.3 219.2 0.3 0.3 365.4 735.4 Interest payments 41.6 39.9 39.9 22.4 22.4 38.2 204.4 Finance lease obligations 1.9 1.5 1.1 0.8 0.6 3.6 9.5 Trade and other payables: Non-derivative liabilities 434.7 17.7 452.4 Derivative liabilities Payments 677.0 5.9 682.9 Receipts 655.9 7.9 663.8 Cash flows on financial liabilities 533.8 186.4 260.2 23.5 23.3 407.2 1,434.4 Related financial assets: Derivative assets Payments 328.8 27.2 29.2 17.3 18.2 31.7 452.4 Receipts 353.9 39.8 39.9 22.4 22.4 44.5 522.9 Cash flows on related financial assets 25.1 12.6 10.7 5.1 4.2 12.8 70.5 508.7 173.8 249.5 18.4 19.1 394.4 1,363.9 Between Between Between Between Within 1 and 2 2 and 3 3 and 4 4 and 5 After 1 year years years years years 5 years Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million As at 29 December 2007 Bank overdrafts 15.7 15.7 Bank and other loans: Principal 45.1 35.9 298.9 498.2 878.1 Interest payments 59.2 56.6 56.6 55.8 30.5 91.5 350.2 Finance lease obligations 2.4 2.0 1.8 1.2 0.8 4.6 12.8 Trade and other payables: Non-derivative liabilities 510.7 18.5 529.2 Derivative liabilities Payments 1,238.2 13.6 8.4 1,260.2 Receipts 1,223.2 12.6 8.0 1,243.8 Cash flows on financial liabilities 648.1 78.1 94.7 355.9 31.3 594.3 1,802.4 Related financial assets: Derivative assets Payments 91.9 53.6 53.6 53.6 30.3 91.3 374.3 Receipts 90.9 56.2 56.2 56.2 30.5 91.5 381.5 Cash flows on related financial assets 1.0 2.6 2.6 2.6 0.2 0.2 7.2 649.1 75.5 92.1 353.3 31.1 594.1 1,795.2 Group financial statements 111 Group financial statements Information on the Groups exposure to liquidity risk analysed by currency is presented below.
Floating interest payments and payments and receipts on interest rate derivatives are estimated based on market interest rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
112 Notes to the financial statements continued 33.
Financial risk management continued E. Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value of or future cash flows associated with a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
The interest rate profile of the Groups financial assets and liabilities, after taking into account the effect of the Groups interest rate hedging activities, was as follows: As at 3 January 2009 As at 29 December 2007 Interest-bearing Interest-bearing Floating Fixed Non-interest Floating Fixed Non-interest rate rate bearing Total rate rate bearing Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Financial assets Trade and other receivables 3.8 828.4 832.2 5.8 963.0 968.8 Available-for-sale investments 0.8 0.8 3.0 3.0 Cash and cash equivalents note 27 252.0 39.9 291.9 270.0 25.9 295.9 255.8 869.1 1,124.9 275.8 991.9 1,267.7 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 498.5 498.5 545.8 545.8 Borrowings note 29 739.4 65.3 1.4 806.1 800.5 73.9 1.6 876.0 Obligations under finance leases 6.9 6.9 9.6 9.6 739.4 72.2 499.9 1,311.5 800.5 83.5 547.4 1,431.4 483.6 72.2 369.2 186.6 524.7 83.5 444.5 163.7 On the assumption that the change in interest rates is applied to the risk exposures in existence at the balance sheet date and that designated fair value hedges are highly effective, an increase decrease of 100 basis points in the interest rates applying to financial assets and liabilities would increase decrease the Groups profit before tax by $4.0 million.
No amounts would be taken directly to equity.
F. Currency risk Currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
Currency risk arises on financial assets and liabilities that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity by which they are held.
The Groups exposure to currency risk was as follows: Net foreign currency financial assets liabilities US dollar Sterling Euro Canadian dollar Other Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million As at 3 January 2009 Functional currency of entity: US dollar 7.0 1.4 6.4 2.0 Sterling 3.7 0.5 12.3 16.5 Euro 2.3 0.1 0.6 3.0 Canadian dollar 1.4 0.1 1.5 Other 11.2 0.7 19.7 31.7 39.5 11.2 7.8 18.8 31.1 18.6 49.5 As at 29 December 2007 Functional currency of entity: US dollar 0.2 3.2 0.2 6.4 3.2 Sterling 24.3 10.4 0.2 34.9 Euro 4.4 0.2 4.6 Canadian dollar 3.0 0.4 0.2 0.4 2.0 Other 24.3 7.4 2.8 2.2 31.1 1.4 8.2 9.8 2.0 6.2 4.4 Currency exposures shown above take into account the effect of the Groups transaction hedging activities.
Group financial statements 113 Group financial statements On the assumption that the change in exchange rates is applied to the risk exposures in existence at the balance sheet date and that designated net investment hedges are highly effective, an increase decrease of 10% in the value of the functional currencies of the entities concerned against the currencies in which the financial assets and liabilities are denominated would increase decrease the Groups profit before tax by $5.0 million.
Currency exposures on the Groups net assets, after taking into account the translation hedges applied to the Groups borrowings, were as follows: As at 3 January 2009 As at 29 December 2007 Net assets Net assets excluding net Net Net excluding net Net Net debt funds debt funds assets debt funds debt funds assets $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Currency: US dollar 1,164.2 305.8 858.4 1,390.1 428.3 961.8 Sterling 101.9 12.7 89.2 169.8 12.4 157.4 Euro 229.9 94.6 135.3 241.5 85.7 155.8 Canadian dollar 171.6 104.4 67.2 519.6 157.0 362.6 Other 548.1 41.1 589.2 525.3 91.9 617.2 2,215.7 476.4 1,739.3 2,846.3 591.5 2,254.8 34.
Background The Group operates pension plans throughout the world, covering the majority of its employees.
The plans are structured to accord with local conditions and practices in each country and include defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans.
The Group provides defined contribution pension benefits in most of the countries in which it operates: in particular, the majority of the Groups employees in the US are entitled to such benefits.
The expense recognised in the income statement in respect of these plans represents the contributions payable by the Group for the period at rates that are specified in the rules of the plans.
At the balance sheet date, the Group had not paid over to the plans contributions due amounting to $15.1 million 29 December 2007: $14.9 million.
All amounts due for the period were paid over subsequent to the balance sheet date.
The Group operates defined benefit pension plans in several countries: in particular, in the US and the UK.
Generally, the pension benefits provided under these plans are based upon pensionable salary and the period of service of the individual employees.
The assets of the plans are held separately from those of the Group in funds that are under the control of trustees.
The majority of the defined benefit pension plans operated by the Group are closed to new entrants.
In addition to the funded defined benefit pension plans, the Group has unfunded defined benefit obligations to certain employees.
The Group also provides other post-employment benefits, principally health and life insurance cover, to certain of its employees in North America.
These plans, which are unfunded, are defined benefit plans.
114 Notes to the financial statements continued 34.
Summary of financial effect An analysis of the effect of providing post-employment benefits on the Groups results is set out below.
Year ended 3 January 2009 Pensions Other post-employment benefits Operating Finance Operating Finance profit charges Total profit charges Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Defined contribution plans 37.9 37.9 Defined benefit plans Recognised in the income statement: Current service cost 8.7 8.7 0.5 0.5 Past service cost 0.6 0.6 Settlement and curtailments 2.4 2.4 Interest cost 67.9 67.9 10.5 10.5 Expected return on plan assets 75.5 75.5 6.3 7.6 1.3 1.1 10.5 11.6 Recognised in equity: Net actuarial gain 122.4 23.6 Effect of the asset ceiling 12.3 110.1 23.6 108.8 12.0 Year ended 29 December 2007 Pensions Other post-employment benefits Loss from Operating Finance discontinued Operating Finance profit charges operations Total profit charges Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Defined contribution plans 46.8 0.8 47.6 Defined benefit plans Recognised in the income statement: Current service cost 11.6 0.2 11.8 0.4 0.4 Past service cost 0.2 0.2 Settlement and curtailments 3.8 2.4 6.2 Interest cost 66.1 1.0 67.1 10.2 10.2 Expected return on plan assets 75.0 1.2 76.2 8.0 8.9 2.4 3.3 0.4 10.2 10.6 Recognised in equity: Net actuarial gain 89.9 6.0 Effect of the asset ceiling 43.8 46.1 6.0 49.4 4.6 Group financial statements 115 Group financial statements Year ended 30 December 2006 Pensions Other post-employment benefits Loss from Loss from Operating Finance discontinued Operating Finance discontinued profit charges operations Total profit charges operations Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Defined contribution plans 51.0 2.6 53.6 Defined benefit plans Recognised in the income statement: Current service cost 12.6 0.7 13.3 0.4 0.4 Past service cost 0.7 0.7 Settlement and curtailments 0.2 0.2 1.1 1.1 Interest cost 57.8 4.9 62.7 9.9 0.2 10.1 Expected return on plan assets 61.1 5.1 66.2 13.5 3.3 0.5 10.7 0.7 9.9 0.2 9.4 Recognised in equity: Net actuarial gain 40.7 2.7 Effect of the asset ceiling 1.6 39.1 2.7 28.4 12.1 The net liability recognised in the Groups balance sheet in respect of defined benefit plans was as follows: As at 3 January 2009 As at 29 December 2007 Pensions Other benefits Total Pensions Other benefits Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Present value of the benefit obligation: Funded 978.9 978.9 1,154.9 1,154.9 Unfunded 39.2 147.7 186.9 41.6 180.8 222.4 1,018.1 147.7 1,165.8 1,196.5 180.8 1,377.3 Fair value of plan assets 862.1 862.1 1,125.0 1,125.0 156.0 147.7 303.7 71.5 180.8 252.3 Effect of the asset ceiling 24.6 24.6 49.4 49.4 Net liability 180.6 147.7 328.3 120.9 180.8 301.7 The net liability is presented in the Groups balance sheet as follows: As at 3 January 2009 As at 29 December 2007 Pensions Other benefits Total Pensions Other benefits Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Ongoing businesses: Surpluses 5.3 5.3 7.2 7.2 Deficits 185.9 147.7 333.6 128.1 178.4 306.5 180.6 147.7 328.3 120.9 178.4 299.3 Businesses to be sold note 28 : Deficits 2.4 2.4 Net liability 180.6 147.7 328.3 120.9 180.8 301.7 116 Notes to the financial statements continued 34.
Post-employment benefit obligations continued C. Pensions The principal assumptions used in the actuarial valuations of the defined benefit pension plans were as follows: Other UK US countries % per annum % per annum % per annum Valuation as at 3 January 2009 Salary increases 4.00% 5.65% 3.28% Increase to pensions in payment 3.00% n a n a Increase to deferred pensions 3.00% n a n a Long-term rate of return on plan assets 6.64% 8.00% 5.97% Discount rate 6.50% 5.88% 5.95% Inflation rate 3.00% 0.00% 1.34% Valuation as at 29 December 2007 Salary increases 4.25% 3.00% 5.92% 1.00% 3.50% Increase to pensions in payment 3.25% n a n a Increase to deferred pensions 3.25% n a n a Long-term rate of return on plan assets 5.25% 7.00% 8.00% 1.00% 7.00% Discount rate 5.75% 6.375% 2.00% 6.00% Inflation rate 3.25% 0.00% 0.50% 3.50% The current life expectancies underlying the benefit obligations of the Groups principal pension plans were as follows: UK US Other countries As at 3 January 2009 Current pensioners at age 65 male 21.2 years 17.7 years 19.1 years female 24.2 years 20.3 years 21.6 years Future pensioners at age 65 male 22.2 years 17.7 years 19.1 years female 25.2 years 20.3 years 21.6 years As at 29 December 2007 Current pensioners at age 65 male 20.5 years 17.7 years 19.1 years female 23.4 years 20.2 years 21.6 years Future pensioners at age 65 male 22.2 years 17.7 years 19.1 years female 25.0 years 20.2 years 21.6 years The net liability recognised in the Groups balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans was as follows: As at 3 January 2009 As at 29 December 2007 Other Other UK US countries Total UK US countries Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Present value of benefit obligation: Funded 280.5 586.5 111.9 978.9 425.5 586.1 143.3 1,154.9 Unfunded 5.1 32.4 1.7 39.2 7.7 31.7 2.2 41.6 285.6 618.9 113.6 1,018.1 433.2 617.8 145.5 1,196.5 Fair value of plan assets 294.0 479.5 88.6 862.1 449.8 558.8 116.4 1,125.0 8.4 139.4 25.0 156.0 16.6 59.0 29.1 71.5 Effect of the asset ceiling 24.6 24.6 45.6 3.8 49.4 Net liability 16.2 139.4 25.0 180.6 29.0 62.8 29.1 120.9 Group financial statements 117 Group financial statements Changes in the present value of the benefit obligation were as follows: Year ended 3 January 2009 Year ended 29 December 2007 Other Other UK US countries Total UK US countries Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million At the beginning of the period 433.2 617.8 145.5 1,196.5 458.4 673.3 138.4 1,270.1 Current service cost 1.1 2.9 4.7 8.7 1.2 5.2 5.4 11.8 Past service cost 0.2 0.2 Curtailments 0.6 2.0 2.6 2.4 4.0 6.4 Settlements 0.4 3.4 3.8 1.4 0.4 1.8 Interest cost 23.4 37.3 7.2 67.9 23.4 37.3 6.4 67.1 Special termination benefits 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Net actuarial gain loss 35.2 28.5 16.4 23.1 33.5 42.7 16.7 92.9 421.9 684.3 137.6 1,243.8 445.9 668.9 133.5 1,248.3 Disposal of subsidiaries 15.9 15.9 1.0 1.0 Employees contributions 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.4 0.2 0.6 Benefits paid 19.8 49.5 6.4 75.7 21.4 50.0 9.8 81.2 Foreign currency translation 116.7 17.8 134.5 8.3 0.1 21.6 29.8 At the end of the period 285.6 618.9 113.6 1,018.1 433.2 617.8 145.5 1,196.5 Changes in the fair value of plan assets were as follows: Year ended 3 January 2009 Year ended 29 December 2007 Other Other UK US countries Total UK US countries Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million At the beginning of the period 449.8 558.8 116.4 1,125.0 427.6 518.9 95.3 1,041.8 Expected return on plan assets 29.3 39.4 6.8 75.5 29.4 40.4 6.4 76.2 Settlements 0.4 3.4 3.8 1.4 0.4 1.8 Net actuarial loss gain 49.6 79.1 16.8 145.5 3.0 3.4 3.4 3.0 429.5 518.7 103.0 1,051.2 452.6 562.3 98.3 1,113.2 Disposal of subsidiaries 16.2 16.2 Employers contributions 8.5 26.5 10.4 45.4 10.4 46.6 11.0 68.0 Employees contributions 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.4 0.2 0.6 Benefits paid 19.8 49.5 6.4 75.7 21.4 50.0 9.8 81.2 Foreign currency translation 124.4 18.6 143.0 7.8 0.1 16.7 24.4 At the end of the period 294.0 479.5 88.6 862.1 449.8 558.8 116.4 1,125.0 The fair value of plan assets by asset category was as follows: As at 3 January 2009 As at 29 December 2007 Other Other UK US countries Total UK US countries Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Equity instruments 151.5 268.9 32.8 453.2 237.2 339.6 50.2 627.0 Debt instruments 141.4 184.7 36.9 363.0 210.8 186.3 48.0 445.1 Other assets 1.1 25.9 18.9 45.9 1.8 32.9 18.2 52.9 294.0 479.5 88.6 862.1 449.8 558.8 116.4 1,125.0 Plan assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
The return and risk expectations for each asset class incorporate assumptions about historical return relationships, current financial market conditions and the degree of global capital market integration.
The assumptions used have been derived from rigorous historical performance analysis combined with forward-looking views of the financial markets as revealed through the yield on long-term bonds and the price earnings ratios of the major stock market indices.
The actuaries review analyses of historical risk and the correlation of the return on asset classes and apply subjective judgment based on their knowledge of the Groups plans.
The result of this analysis is incorporated into a risk matrix from which expected long-term risk premiums for each asset class are developed.
The nominal return expectations are determined by combining the asset class risk premiums with expected inflation and real risk-free rate assumptions.
As a final consideration, the nominal return assumptions are blended with current market conditions to develop long-term equilibrium expectations.
118 Notes to the financial statements continued 34.
Post-employment benefit obligations continued C. Pensions continued The Groups investment strategy for pension plan assets includes diversification to minimise interest and market risks.
Accordingly, the interest rate risk inherent in the benefit obligation of the Groups US funded pension plans is hedged using a combination of bonds and interest rate swaps with a combined average duration of 10.5 years.
In general, the investment strategy for the Groups pension plans outside the US does not involve the use of derivative financial instruments.
Plan assets are rebalanced periodically to maintain target asset allocations.
Maturities of investments are not necessarily related to the timing of expected future benefit payments, but adequate liquidity to make immediate and medium-term benefit payments is ensured.
The weighted averages of the expected returns on plan assets were as follows: As at 3 January 2009 As at 29 December 2007 As at 30 December 2006 Other Other Other UK US countries UK US countries UK US countries Equity instruments 8.00% 9.51% 9.13% 7.95% 9.31% 9.39% 7.90% 9.61% 8.20% Debt instruments 4.83% 6.40% 4.87% 5.65% 6.30% 5.11% 5.00% 5.70% 5.04% Other assets 4.30% 3.90% 1.00% 4.85% 4.80% 1.00% 4.20% 3.80% The actual return on plan assets was as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 UK 4.5 % 6.0% 6.0% US 7.1 % 8.3% 9.6% Other countries 8.6 % 3.1% 11.3% Actuarial gains and losses recognised in relation to defined benefit pension plans were as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 31 December 1 January 2009 2007 2006 2005 2005 $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million At the end of the period: Present value of benefit obligation 1,018.1 1,196.5 1,270.0 1,216.9 1,162.3 Fair value of plan assets 862.1 1,125.0 1,041.8 904.9 848.0 Deficit in the plans 156.0 71.5 228.2 312.0 314.3 Recognised in the period: Net actuarial loss gain on plan assets 145.5 3.0 15.1 25.9 9.0 Net actuarial loss gain on benefit obligation 23.1 92.9 25.6 104.7 32.4 As at 3 January 2009, the cumulative net actuarial loss recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense amounted to $94.0 million.
The Group expects to contribute approximately $43 million to defined benefit pension plans in 2009.
D. Other post-employment benefits The weighted averages of the principal assumptions used in the actuarial valuations of the other post-employment benefit plans were as follows: As at As at As at 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 % per annum % per annum % per annum Discount rate 6.08% 6.28% 5.65% Medical cost inflation rate 8.20% 7.13% 7.94% The Groups other post-employment benefit plans are unfunded.
Accordingly, the liability recognised in the Groups balance sheet in respect of these plans represents the present value of the benefit obligation.
Group financial statements 119 Group financial statements Changes in the present value of the benefit obligation were as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million At the beginning of the period 180.8 189.7 193.5 Current service cost 0.5 0.4 0.4 Past service cost 0.6 Settlements 1.1 Interest cost 10.5 10.2 10.1 Net actuarial gain loss 23.6 6.0 2.7 168.8 194.3 207.8 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.4 Disposal of subsidiaries 2.2 2.8 Benefits paid 13.0 15.6 18.5 Foreign currency translation 5.9 4.9 At the end of the period 147.7 180.8 189.7 Actuarial gains and losses recognised in relation to other post-employment benefit plans since the adoption of IFRS are as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 31 December 1 January 2009 2007 2006 2005 2005 $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million At the end of the period: Present value of benefit obligation 147.7 180.8 189.7 193.5 213.5 Recognised in the period: Actuarial gain loss on benefit obligation 23.6 6.0 2.7 3.1 45.7 As at 3 January 2009, the cumulative net actuarial gain recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense amounted to $75.7 million.
Sensitivity to change in the assumed medical cost inflation rate used in the actuarial valuations as at 3 January 2009 is as follows: Increase of one Decrease of one percentage point percentage point $ million $ million Effect on the aggregate of the current service cost and the interest cost 0.8 0.4 Effect on the accumulated benefit obligation 16.4 9.3 120 Notes to the financial statements continued 35.
Background The Company operates a number of share-based compensation arrangements to provide incentives to the Groups senior executives and other eligible employees.
Details of the schemes in respect of which options and awards are outstanding are set out in the Remuneration Committee report.
Although the Companys ordinary shares are now denominated in US dollars, they continue to be quoted in sterling on the London Stock Exchange.
Share options Following a review by the Board in 2004, it was decided that the Companys executive share option schemes would not be renewed when they lapsed for the purposes of new awards in May 2005.
Awards granted under these schemes were subject to a performance condition that the rate of increase in the Groups earnings per share must exceed the growth in the UK Retail Prices Index by an average of 2% per annum over any three-year period after the options were granted.
The final unvested options under these schemes vested during 2007.
Options were granted to James Nicol in 2002 as part of the incentive package to attract him to the Company.
The Ongoing Option, which was subject to the performance condition that the rate of increase of the Companys earnings per share must be equal to or greater than the rate of increase of the UK Retail Prices Index plus 9% over any three-year period after the option was granted, vested in 2006.
Options continue to be granted from time to time under the Companys Sharesave scheme, which is restricted to employees who are resident for tax purposes in the UK.
It offers eligible employees the option to buy ordinary shares in Tomkins plc after a period of three, five or seven years funded from the proceeds of a savings contract to which employees may contribute up to 250 per month.
In 2008, the compensation expense recognised in respect of share options was $0.3 million 2007: $2.8 million: 2006: $5.0 million.
Changes in the total number of share options outstanding during the period were as follows: Year ended 3 January 2009 Year ended 29 December 2007 Weighted Weighted average average Options exercise price Options exercise price Number Pence Number Pence Outstanding at the beginning of the period 19,602,926 242.71 20,495,555 243.10 Granted during the period 803,274 140.20 272,695 211.40 Forfeited during the period 533,617 205.95 368,573 233.12 Exercised during the period 45,000 170.50 485,751 241.19 Lapsed during the period 1,696,000 251.56 311,000 254.93 Outstanding at the end of the period 18,131,583 238.60 19,602,926 242.71 Exercisable at the end of the period 16,341,128 244.64 18,082,128 245.11 On the dates on which options were exercised during 2008, the weighted average market price of the Companys ordinary shares was 184.00p per share 2007: 277.83p per share.
The fair value of options granted under the Sharesave scheme was measured at their respective grant dates using the BlackScholes option pricing formula based on the following assumptions: Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Weighted average fair value 37.99p 73.81p 106.61p Weighted average assumptions: Share price 176.75p 264.25p 336.75p Exercise price 140.20p 211.40p 269.40p Expected volatility 24.59% 25.40% 28.94% Expected life 4.57 years 4.66 years 4.55 years Risk-free interest rate 4.55% 5.23% 4.50% Expected dividends 13.89p 13.89p 13.00p Group financial statements 121 Group financial statements Expected volatility was determined based on the historical volatility of the market price of the Companys ordinary shares over the shorter of the expected life of the options and the period since the beginning of the Groups financial year ended 30 April 2002 when, following a period of significant demerger activity, the Group was refocused on its remaining core businesses.
Adjustments have been made to the expected life used in the model to reflect the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The weighted average contractual life of share options outstanding at the end of the period was as follows: As at 3 January 2009 As at 29 December 2007 As at 30 December 2006 Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average remaining remaining remaining Outstanding contractual life Outstanding contractual life Outstanding contractual life Number Years Number Years Number Years Range of exercise prices: 100p to 150p 723,947 4.23 151p to 200p 3,454,072 2.99 3,519,072 3.94 3,563,072 4.98 201p to 250p 7,773,617 4.61 9,244,600 5.39 9,641,668 6.59 251p to 300p 5,164,719 4.35 5,821,026 5.01 6,272,587 6.41 301p and higher 1,015,228 3.10 1,018,228 4.11 1,018,228 5.11 18,131,583 19,602,926 20,495,555 C. Other awards The Groups principal ongoing share-based compensation arrangements are the Annual Bonus Incentive Plan and the Performance Share Plan.
Both are restricted to the Groups senior executives.
ABIP provides an award of bonus shares and deferred shares based on the profit of the business for which the participants have responsibility.
Bonus shares are restricted and vest after a period of three years.
Dividends are paid on the bonus shares.
Deferred shares vest after a period of three years conditional on the participants continued employment with the Group.
Dividends are not paid on the deferred shares until they have vested.
During 2008, awards were granted over 1,789,628 ordinary shares 2007: 1,727,352 ordinary shares: 2006: 1,643,031 ordinary shares under the ABIP.
PSP provides awards of shares which vest after a period of three years conditional on the Groups total shareholder return relative to its cost of equity over the vesting period and the participants continued employment with the Group.
During 2008, awards were granted over 7,115,194 ordinary shares under the PSP 2007: 5,852,671 ordinary shares: 2006: 7,866,573 ordinary shares.
The fair value of awards made under the ABIP is measured based on the market price of the Companys ordinary shares on the date of the award.
Where the awards do not attract dividends during the vesting period, the market price is reduced by the present value of the dividends expected to be paid during the expected life of the awards.
The weighted average fair value of awards made under these schemes during the period was 125.66p 2007: 211.93p: 2006: 266.60p.
The fair value of awards made under the PSP was measured at their respective grant dates using a Monte-Carlo valuation model based on the following assumptions: Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 Weighted average fair value 43.92p 66.45p 87.19p Weighted average assumptions: Expected volatility 36.41% 27.67% 23.01% Expected life 3.00 years 3.00 years 2.78 years Risk-free interest rate 4.71% 4.88% 4.75% Dividend yield 8.84% 5.00% 4.73% Expected volatility was determined based on the historical volatility of the market price of the Companys ordinary shares over the expected life of the awards.
In 2008, the compensation expense recognised in respect of other awards was $11.2 million 2007: $13.2 million: 2006: $9.5 million.
122 Notes to the financial statements continued 36.
Deferred tax Movements in the net deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group were as follows: PostNet employment Tax investment in Accrued Long-lived Other benefits losses subsidiaries expenses assets Inventories items Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million As at 30 December 2006 116.3 21.3 30.9 42.9 125.5 51.4 31.1 65.6 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.2 0.2 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.6 0.6 0.4 3.0 6.8 1.0 1.2 Charge credit to the income statement 12.8 13.0 33.6 1.2 9.8 3.8 6.4 51.0 Charge credit directly to equity 14.8 0.2 14.6 Currency translation differences 2.6 1.9 0.1 1.7 3.7 0.8 1.6 As at 29 December 2007 90.7 9.6 2.8 45.4 122.4 40.8 23.3 3.0 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.8 1.7 5.2 0.8 1.2 2.3 Charge credit to the income statement 16.9 4.2 0.5 0.4 19.9 4.3 5.2 1.2 Credit directly to equity 25.3 5.8 31.1 Currency translation differences 0.6 0.8 1.3 1.4 0.2 1.0 0.1 As at 3 January 2009 97.7 4.6 3.3 42.0 95.9 44.1 34.1 35.1 Deferred tax assets and liabilities presented in the Groups balance sheet are as follows: As at As at 3 January 29 December 2009 2007 $ million $ million Deferred tax assets 64.8 47.4 Deferred tax liabilities: Ongoing businesses 29.7 42.2 Businesses to be sold note 28 2.2 35.1 3.0 As at 3 January 2009, the Group had operating tax losses amounting to $2,049.3 million, of which $1,948.5 million can be carried forward indefinitely and $100.8 million have expiry dates between 2009 and 2027.
As at 3 January 2009, the Group recognised a deferred tax asset of $4.3 million in respect of these losses.
As at 3 January 2009, the Group had capital tax losses amounting to $789.9 million, of which $415.5 million can be carried forward indefinitely and $374.4 million expire in 2013.
As at 3 January 2009, the Group recognised a deferred tax asset of $0.3 million in respect of these losses.
As at 3 January 2009, the Group had foreign and other tax credits amounting to $34.8 million, of which $18.2 million can be carried forward indefinitely and $16.6 million expire between 2014 and 2028.
As at 3 January 2009, the Group recognised a deferred tax asset in respect of these tax credits of $1.1 million.
Deferred tax is not provided on the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries where management has the ability, and intends, to reinvest such amounts indefinitely.
As at 3 January 2009, the Groups share of the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries on which deferred tax was not provided was $3,180.5 million 29 December 2007: $3,928.0 million.
A determination of the amount of the unrecognised deferred tax liability has not been made because it is not practical to do so.
A portion of these earnings can be distributed without incurring additional taxes.
Group financial statements 123 Group financial statements 37.
Provisions Product Restructuring Environmental Workers Warranty liability Insurance costs remediation compensation provisions provisions provisions Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million As at 31 December 2005 18.4 10.6 37.6 10.7 12.4 12.4 102.1 Charge credit for the period 15.6 0.4 19.3 6.2 1.7 0.9 42.3 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.2 0.2 Utilised during the period 26.0 3.7 19.8 6.2 5.7 1.3 62.7 Foreign currency translation 1.0 0.3 0.1 0.4 0.1 1.5 3.4 As at 30 December 2006 9.0 7.6 37.2 11.3 8.5 11.7 85.3 Charge credit for the period 15.4 4.0 12.6 10.6 5.8 3.8 44.6 Utilised during the period 14.8 2.8 17.6 6.2 6.4 47.8 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.2 3.4 0.6 0.4 4.6 Foreign currency translation 0.6 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.3 1.4 As at 29 December 2007 10.0 9.1 28.9 15.2 7.5 8.2 78.9 Charge credit for the period 15.6 2.6 13.6 4.8 8.3 2.2 42.7 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.3 0.3 Utilised during the period 9.5 4.1 16.5 8.0 8.3 46.4 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.4 0.1 0.5 Foreign currency translation 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.8 1.7 3.0 As at 3 January 2009 15.9 7.4 25.5 11.5 7.4 4.3 72.0 Provisions are presented in the Groups balance sheet as follows: As at As at 3 January 29 December 2009 2007 $ million $ million Ongoing businesses: Current liabilities 48.8 50.2 Non-current liabilities 23.2 27.3 72.0 77.5 Businesses to be sold note 28 1.4 72.0 78.9 38.
Ordinary shares A. Authorised shares Ordinary shares of 9c each Ordinary shares of 5p each Nominal Nominal Number value Number value of shares $ million of shares million As at 30 December 2006 and 29 December 2007 1,585,164,220 79.2 Redenomination on 22 May 2008: Cancellation of ordinary shares of 5p each 1,585,164,220 79.2 Authorisation of ordinary shares of 9c each 1,585,164,220 142.7 As at 3 January 2009 1,585,164,220 142.7 On 22 May 2008, the Companys ordinary shares were redenominated from sterling to US dollars by way of a reduction of capital under section 135 of the Companies Act 1985.
Following approval by the Companys shareholders and pursuant to an Order of the High Court of Justice in England and Wales, the share capital of the Company was reduced by cancelling and extinguishing all of the issued and unissued ordinary shares of 5 pence each.
The amount standing to the credit of share capital was transferred to a specially created cancellation reserve where it was retranslated into US dollars at the exchange rate ruling at the close of business in London on 21 May 2008 of 1 $1.96 giving rise to a currency translation loss of $1.3 million.
The cancellation reserve was then applied by issuing new ordinary shares of 9 cents each to holders of the cancelled ordinary shares of 5 pence each on a one-for-one basis.
The redenomination did not affect the rights of the holders of ordinary shares.
124 Notes to the financial statements continued 38.
Allotted, issued and fully paid shares Ordinary Share share Cancellation premium Number capital reserve account Total of shares $ million $ million $ million $ million As at 31 December 2005 774,495,124 55.6 138.8 194.4 Year ended 30 December 2006 Shares issued during the period: Conversion of preference shares 76,573,697 6.6 384.1 390.7 Exercise of employee share options 7,140,701 0.7 26.7 27.4 83,714,398 7.3 410.8 418.1 As at 30 December 2006 858,209,522 62.9 549.6 612.5 Year ended 29 December 2007 Shares issued during the period: Conversion of preference shares 25,411,499 2.5 127.5 130.0 Exercise of employee share options 485,751 0.1 2.3 2.4 25,897,250 2.6 129.8 132.4 As at 29 December 2007 884,106,772 65.5 679.4 744.9 Year ended 3 January 2009 Transfer of currency translation difference on change of functional currency note 2 22.6 112.4 135.0 884,106,772 88.1 791.8 879.9 Shares issued before redenomination: Exercise of employee share options 45,000 0.2 0.2 As at 22 May 2008 884,151,772 88.1 792.0 880.1 Redenomination: Cancellation of ordinary shares of 5p each 884,151,772 88.1 88.1 Currency translation difference on redenomination 1.3 1.3 Issue of deferred shares of 1 each 0.1 0.1 Issue of ordinary shares of 9c each 884,151,772 79.6 79.6 Transfer to share premium account 7.2 7.2 8.5 7.1 1.4 As at 3 January 2009 884,151,772 79.6 799.1 878.7 Ordinary shareholders have no entitlement to share in the profits of the Company, except for dividends that have been declared and in the event of the liquidation of the Company.
Ordinary shareholders have the right to attend, and vote at, general meetings of the Company or to appoint a proxy to attend and vote at such meetings on their behalf.
Ordinary shareholders have one vote for every share held.
Ordinary share capital represents the nominal value of ordinary shares issued.
The share premium account records the difference between the nominal value of ordinary shares issued and the fair value of the consideration received.
The share premium account is not distributable but may be used for certain purposes specified by UK law, including to write off expenses on any issue of shares or debentures and to pay up fully paid bonus shares.
The share premium account may be reduced by special resolution of the Companys shareholders and with the approval of the court.
Group financial statements 125 Group financial statements 39.
Deferred shares Authorised Allotted, issued and fully paid Nominal Share Number value Number capital of shares of shares $ million Deferred shares of 1 each As at 30 December 2006 and 29 December 2007 Authorised and issued on redenomination of ordinary shares 50,000 50,000 50,000 0.1 As at 3 January 2009 50,000 50,000 50,000 0.1 Under section 118 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company must have a minimum share capital of 50,000 denominated in sterling.
Accordingly, immediately upon the reduction of capital and before the issue and allotment of the new ordinary shares, the Company increased its capital by 50,000 by the creation of 50,000 deferred shares of 1 each which were paid up in full at par by capitalisation of the equivalent amount standing to the credit of the Companys share premium account.
The deferred shares are not listed on any investment exchange and have extremely limited rights such that they effectively have no value.
It is intended that the deferred shares will be held by either the Company Secretary or by a Director of the Company they are currently held by the Company Secretary.
Following the implementation of section 542 of the Companies Act 2006 on 1 October 2009, the Company will no longer be required to have any share capital denominated in sterling.
Accordingly, the Company intends to buy back and cancel the deferred shares as soon as practicable after 1 October 2009.
Own shares Year ended 3 January 2009 Year ended 29 December 2007 Year ended 30 December 2006 Number Number Number of shares $ million of shares $ million of shares $ million At the beginning of the period 4,205,841 18.9 4,205,248 19.8 3,230,402 14.6 Transfer of currency translation difference on change of functional currency note 2 3.4 4,205,841 22.3 4,205,248 19.8 3,230,402 14.6 Own shares purchased 1,506,518 4.7 1,597,500 6.9 1,647,013 8.7 Sale or transfer of own shares 2,053,809 12.1 1,596,907 7.8 672,167 3.5 At the end of the period 3,658,550 14.9 4,205,841 18.9 4,205,248 19.8 Own shares represent the cost of the Companys ordinary shares acquired to meet the Groups expected obligations under the employee share schemes.
Dividends relating to own shares held have been waived with the exception of those that are payable to participants in the relevant schemes.
As at 3 January 2009, 1,143,076 ordinary shares 29 December 2007: 1,376,975 ordinary shares were held in trust and 2,515,474 ordinary shares 29 December 2007: 2,828,866 ordinary shares were held as treasury shares.
As at 3 January 2009, the market value of own shares held was $7.1 million 29 December 2007: $15.1 million.
126 Notes to the financial statements continued 41.
Other reserves Retained Capital Currency Availableprofit redemption translation for-sale accumulated reserve reserve reserve deficit Total $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million As at 31 December 2005 717.6 123.4 120.0 961.0 Year ended 30 December 2006 Total recognised income and expense attributable to equity shareholders 48.0 0.2 373.6 421.8 Other changes in shareholders equity: Loss on transfer of own shares 3.5 3.5 Cost of share-based incentives 14.5 14.5 Dividends paid on ordinary shares 217.3 217.3 206.3 206.3 As at 30 December 2006 717.6 171.4 0.2 287.3 1,176.5 Year ended 29 December 2007 Total recognised income and expense attributable to equity shareholders 142.3 0.4 332.5 474.4 Other changes in shareholders equity: Loss on transfer of own shares 7.8 7.8 Redemption of preference shares 1.2 1.2 Cost of share-based incentives 16.0 16.0 Dividends paid on ordinary shares 247.3 247.3 1.2 240.3 239.1 As at 29 December 2007 718.8 313.7 0.2 379.5 1,411.8 Year ended 3 January 2009 Transfer of currency translation difference on change of functional currency note 2 202.9 334.5 131.6 921.7 20.8 0.2 379.5 1,280.2 Total recognised income and expense attributable to equity shareholders 150.1 0.8 136.9 287.8 Other changes in shareholders equity: Currency translation difference on redenomination of ordinary shares note 38 1.3 1.3 Loss on transfer of own shares 12.1 12.1 Cost of share-based incentives 11.5 11.5 Dividends paid on ordinary shares 246.2 246.2 1.3 246.8 245.5 As at 3 January 2009 921.7 169.6 1.0 4.2 746.9 The capital redemption reserve records the cost of shares purchased by the Company for cancellation or redeemed in excess of the proceeds of any fresh issue of shares made specifically to fund the purchase or redemption.
The capital redemption reserve is not distributable but may be reduced by special resolution of the Companys shareholders and with the approval of the court.
Group financial statements 127 Group financial statements 42.
Minority interests Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million At the beginning of the period 117.0 99.0 83.2 Total recognised income and expense attributable to minority interests 16.4 29.6 24.6 Other changes in equity attributable to minority interests: Shares issued by a subsidiary to minority shareholders 0.4 3.8 5.9 Purchase of a minority shareholding 1.0 Acquisition of subsidiaries 8.2 Dividends paid to minority shareholders 13.5 14.4 14.7 4.9 11.6 8.8 At the end of the period 128.5 117.0 99.0 Included in the total recognised income and expense attributable to minority interests are currency translation losses of $0.9 million 2007: gains of $4.8 million: 2006: gains of $1.4 million.
Capital Management considers that the Groups capital comprises shareholders equity plus net debt.
The Groups capital was as follows: As at As at As at 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Shareholders equity 1,610.8 2,137.8 1,769.2 Net debt: Cash and cash equivalents 291.9 295.9 337.6 Collateralised cash 3.8 5.8 8.0 Bank overdrafts 13.7 15.7 11.2 Bank and other loans 792.4 860.3 1,111.8 Obligations under finance leases 6.9 9.6 18.2 Derivatives hedging translational exposures 40.9 7.6 6.8 Preference shares 132.0 476.4 591.5 920.8 2,087.2 2,729.3 2,690.0 We manage the Groups capital structure to maximise shareholder value whilst retaining flexibility to take advantage of opportunities that arise to grow the Groups business.
128 Notes to the financial statements continued 44.
Current year acquisitions Industrial & Automotive Fluid Power On 3 March 2008, the Group acquired a 100% interest in A. E. Hydraulic Pte Ltd. a Singapore-based provider of hydraulic and industrial hose solutions and services for the oil exploration industry in Asia.
Goodwill of $8.1 million was recognised on the acquisition which represents the expected benefits to the Group from the acceleration of its expansion into the highgrowth oil and gas exploration market made possible by the acquisition.
Building Products Air Systems Components On 22 February 2008, the Group acquired a 60% interest in Rolastar Pvt Ltd, a duct manufacturer based in India.
Goodwill of $0.9 million was recognised on the acquisition.
On 20 June 2008, the Group acquired a 100% interest in Trion Inc. a manufacturer of commercial, industrial and residential indoor air quality products.
Trion is headquartered in Sanford, North Carolina, with manufacturing facilities there and also in Suzhou, China.
Goodwill of $2.4 million was recognised on the acquisition which represents the expected synergies from the integration of the business within Air Systems Components.
Prior year acquisitions 2007 Industrial & Automotive Fluid Systems On 8 March 2007, the Group increased its interest in Schrader Engineered Products Kunshan Co Ltd, a manufacturer of valves and fittings, from 60% to 100%.
On 26 September 2007, the Group acquired 100% of Swindon Silicon Systems Ltd, a UK company that designs, develops and supplies integrated circuits.
2006 Industrial & Automotive Other Industrial & Automotive On 19 July 2006, the Group acquired a 60% interest in Gates Winhere LLC, which, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, acquired the business and assets of a water pump manufacturer in China.
On 4 August 2006, the Group completed the acquisition of 100% of ENZED Fleximak Ltd, a supplier of engineering, fabrication, testing and service operations for flexible fluid transfer products in the Arabian Gulf region.
During 2006, the Group also acquired a 20% interest in e-business and logistics services provider, CoLinx LLC.
Building Products Air Systems Components On 1 March 2006, the Group completed the acquisition of 100% of Selkirk Americas LP, a US manufacturer of chimney, venting and air distribution products for commercial and residential applications.
On 11 October 2006, the Group acquired 100% of Eastern Sheet Metal, Inc. a US manufacturer of commercial heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems with plants in the US.
Also in October 2006, the Group purchased 100% of Heat-Fab Inc, a US manufacturer of high efficiency residential and commercial venting systems.
Group financial statements 129 Group financial statements C. Adjustment in respect of prior year acquisition During 2008, the initial accounting for Swindon Silicon Systems Limited was completed and the attributable goodwill was reduced by $3.0 million, principally due to the allocation of additional amounts to identifiable intangible assets.
Comparative information has not been restated to reflect this adjustment because the effect is not material to the Groups results or financial position.
D. Financial effect of acquisitions Year ended 3 January 2009 Acquirees carrying amount Provisional Year ended Year ended in accordance Fair value fair 29 December 30 December with IFRS adjustments value 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Net assets acquired Intangible assets 37.4 37.4 11.0 41.4 Property, plant and equipment 9.2 9.2 7.0 29.9 Deferred tax assets 0.2 Pension surplus 0.4 Inventories 12.3 0.1 12.4 2.6 30.8 Trade and other receivables 11.5 11.5 7.6 27.3 Income tax recoverable 1.2 1.2 1.1 Cash and cash equivalents 0.1 0.1 5.1 Bank and other loans 0.4 0.4 Obligations under finance leases 0.4 0.4 Trade and other payables 8.9 8.9 4.4 24.8 Income tax liabilities 0.9 0.9 0.8 Deferred tax liabilities 3.9 Provisions 0.3 0.3 0.2 Minority interest 1.3 6.9 8.2 1.0 22.1 30.6 52.7 24.2 107.1 Goodwill on current year acquisitions 11.4 6.2 112.9 Adjustments to goodwill on prior year acquisitions 3.0 14.2 14.1 Consideration including transaction costs 61.1 16.2 205.9 The net cash outflow on acquisitions during the period was as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Consideration paid on current period acquisitions 65.5 15.2 205.7 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 0.1 5.1 Adjustment to consideration on prior period acquisitions 0.4 1.8 0.4 65.0 17.0 201.0 Businesses acquired during 2008 contributed $59.0 million to the Groups sales and $1.9 million to the Groups profit for the year ended 3 January 2009.
If these businesses had been acquired at the beginning of 2008, it is estimated that the Groups sales would have been $5,598.0 million in 2008, but it is not practicable to estimate what the Groups profit for the year would have been because they did not prepare balance sheets in accordance with IFRS as at 29 December 2007.
130 Notes to the financial statements continued 45.
Current year disposals Industrial & Automotive Fluid Systems On 19 June 2008, the Group sold Stant Manufacturing, Inc. a manufacturer of automotive closure caps and its subsidiary, Standard-Thomson Corporation, a manufacturer of automotive thermostats.
A gain of $43.2 million was recognised on the disposal.
Prior year disposals 2007 Industrial & Automotive Other Industrial & Automotive On 19 November 2007, the Group sold Tridon Electronics indicator and side object detection businesses.
On 23 November 2007, the Group sold Dearborn Mid-West, a manufacturer of automotive assembly lines and materials handling equipment.
Building Products Other Building Products On 23 February 2007, the Group sold the business and assets of Lasco Fittings Inc. a manufacturer of injection-moulded fittings.
Discontinued operations Wiper Systems On 29 June 2007, the Group completed the sale of Trico, which constituted the Groups former Wiper Systems business segment.
2006 During 2006, the Group recognised a net gain of $5.7 million on the sale of property, plant and equipment relating to businesses sold in prior years.
Group financial statements 131 Group financial statements C. Financial effect of disposals Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Proceeds Cash 108.1 233.9 12.5 Deferred 17.6 Loan notes 11.8 16.8 119.9 268.3 12.5 Net assets disposed of Intangible assets 1.0 0.6 Property, plant and equipment 35.7 63.5 6.8 Investments in associates 1.9 Inventories 16.7 94.2 Trade and other receivables 43.3 181.1 Income tax recoverable 1.0 Cash and cash equivalents 0.3 9.2 Trade and other payables 25.5 120.4 Finance lease obligations 6.1 Deferred tax liabilities 2.3 1.2 Post-employment benefit obligations 1.9 3.8 Provisions 0.5 4.6 68.7 213.5 6.8 Disposal costs 3.3 7.2 Curtailment gain on retained pension plan 2.0 Currency translation differences transferred from equity 6.7 28.8 Gain on disposal 43.2 18.8 5.7 Attributable to: Continuing operations 43.2 76.0 5.7 Discontinued operations 57.2 43.2 18.8 5.7 The net cash inflow on disposals during the period was as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Proceeds received on current period disposals 108.1 233.9 Disposal costs paid 4.3 9.0 Cash and cash equivalents disposed of 0.3 9.2 Proceeds received on prior period disposals 21.1 0.6 12.5 124.6 216.3 12.5 132 Notes to the financial statements continued 46.
Contingencies The Group is, from time to time, party to legal proceedings and claims, which arise in the ordinary course of business.
Management does not anticipate that the outcome of any current proceedings or known claims, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon the Groups financial position.
Operating leases The Group rents certain office premises and plant, equipment and vehicles under operating lease arrangements.
During the period, the Group recognised as an expense operating lease rentals of $55.1 million 2007: $53.8 million: 2006: $50.1 million.
As at 3 January 2009, the Group had outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases of $229.5 million 29 December 2007: $232.8 million, falling due as follows: As at As at 3 January 29 December 2009 2007 $ million $ million Payments to be made: Within one year 41.3 37.7 In the second to fifth years, inclusive 111.1 105.2 After more than five years 77.1 89.9 229.5 232.8 48.
Capital commitments As at 3 January 2009, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the purchase of property, plant and equipment amounting to $18.7 million 29 December 2007: $73.3 million, and for the purchase of non-integral computer software amounting to $4.1 million 29 December 2007: $11.4 million.
Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, have been eliminated on consolidation and therefore are not required to be disclosed in these financial statements.
Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are disclosed below.
Post-employment benefit plans During the period, the Group paid employers contributions amounting to $84.9 million 2007: $113.4 million: 2006: $113.5 million in total to defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans established for the benefit of its employees.
As at 3 January 2009, an amount of $15.1 million 29 December 2007: $14.9 million in respect of employers contributions due was included in trade payables.
In addition, during the period, the Group paid benefits of $13.0 million 2007: $15.6 million: 2006: $17.4 million to other post-employment benefit plans.
Group financial statements 133 Group financial statements Compensation and interests of key management personnel For the purposes of these disclosures, the Group regards its key management personnel as the Directors of the Company together with those persons who, in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UKLA, are regarded as discharging management responsibility.
Compensation paid or payable to key management personnel in respect of their services to the Group was as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Short-term employee benefits: Salaries and fees 6,064 6,667 6,759 Bonus cash 1,504 4,080 4,932 Benefits-in-kind 308 308 235 Social security contributions 509 1,110 994 Termination benefits 37 2,253 8,422 14,418 12,920 Share-based incentives: Bonus shares 324 930 1,210 Deferred shares 647 1,775 2,420 Notional gains on the exercise of share options 7,246 971 2,705 10,876 Pension contributions 2,603 1,979 1,630 11,996 19,102 25,426 As at 19 February 2009, the interests of key management personnel in the Companys ordinary shares were as follows: Ordinary Ordinary shares shares held as ADSs Total Directors 2,849,536 108,364 2,957,900 Other executive officers 1,017,378 170,600 1,187,978 3,866,914 278,964 4,145,878 All of the above interests are beneficially owned and in aggregate comprise less than 1% of the Companys issued ordinary shares.
An analysis of the compensation, interests in ordinary shares and options over ordinary shares of each of the Directors is presented in the Remuneration Committee report.
For the purposes of Form 20-F, the sections of the Remuneration Committee report that are marked as audited are not required to be audited in accordance with PCAOB standards and are not considered audited in the Form 20-F. 134 Notes to the financial statements continued 49.
Related party transactions continued Associates Sales to and purchases from associates were as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Sales 1.0 0.6 0.6 Purchases 20.0 12.0 10.1 Amounts outstanding in respect of these transactions were as follows: As at As at 3 January 29 December 2009 2007 $ million $ million Receivables 0.1 0.2 Payables 1.0 3.0 Entities controlled by minority shareholders Sales to and purchases from entities controlled by minority shareholders were as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 3 January 29 December 30 December 2009 2007 2006 $ million $ million $ million Sales 45.2 46.4 48.2 Purchases 58.7 61.4 58.1 Amounts outstanding in respect of these transactions were as follows: As at As at 3 January 29 December 2009 2007 $ million $ million Receivables 2.9 0.8 Payables 4.7 2.0 Other related parties Dexon Investments Limited Dexon Investments Limited Dexon is the minority shareholder in the Groups 60% owned subsidiary, Winhere LLC, that was incorporated during 2006.
On 19 July 2006, Winhere LLC, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Gates Winhere Automotive Pump Products Yantai Co Ltd Gates Winhere, acquired the business and assets of the water pump manufacturing operations of Winhere Auto Part Manufacturing Co Ltd Winhere, a fellow subsidiary of Dexon, for $8.6 million in cash.
During 2008, Gates Winhere purchased land and buildings for $1.8 million from Winhere.
At 3 January 2009, there was a nil balance outstanding in respect of this transaction.
