Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 26.
Related party transactions continued b Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited portion of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 18, 19 and 20.
Financial Instruments a Capital risk management The group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 18, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in note 21 and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity on page 28.
The group aims to maintain cash balances over $100 million to provide both security to customers making a significant long term investment when they acquire our software and to provide funds for potential acquisitions should the opportunity arise.
b Externally imposed capital requirement The group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
c Significant accounting policies Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 2 to the financial statements.
d Derivative contracts The group does not enter into any financial derivative contracts.
f Financial risk management objectives The group is subject to market risk including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk.
The group does not use derivative financial instruments to hedge foreign currency exposures as the operating companies within the group principally generate revenues in the currencies in which they incur the majority of their expenditure.
The group manages credit risk in respect of its trade receivables as set out in note 15.
Liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk are limited as the group has no net debt.
The Board review the respective risks on a quarterly basis to ensure no significant exposures exist.
Autonomy Corporation plc 48 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 27.
Financial Instruments continued g Market risk The groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The group does not use derivatives to manage the foreign currency risks due to the natural hedging that exists within the group.
Interest rate risk is not considered significant as the cash balances exceed the bank loan balance.
Market risk exposures are measured using sensitivity analysis.
There has been no change to the groups exposure to market risks or the manner in which it manages and measures the risk.
h Foreign currency risk management The group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies.
Hence, exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise both in terms of transactional risk as well as translational risk.
The group is naturally hedged, as noted above, which addresses the transactional risk.
Translational risk is minimal and is not hedged by the group as the majority of the groups assets and liabilities are denominated in dollars which is also the groups presentational currency.
The following table details the groups sensitivity to a 10% increase and decrease in the functional currency of the entity concerned against the relevant foreign currencies.
10% is the sensitivity rate used when reporting foreign currency risk internally to key management personnel and represents managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes external loans as well as loans to foreign operations within the group where the denomination of the loan is in a currency other than the currency of the lender or the borrower.
A positive number below indicates an increase in profit and other equity where the Sterling strengthens 10% against the relevant currency.
For a 10% weakening of the functional currency against the relevant currency, there would be an equal and opposite impact on the profit and other equity, and the balances below would be negative.
The movements above arise where entities within the group have financial assets or liabilities in currencies other than the respective functional currencies.
There has not been any significant change in the groups sensitivity to foreign currency during the year.
j Interest rate risk management The group is exposed to interest rate risk as it has a floating interest rate bank loan and receives interest on its cash and cash equivalent balances.
The risk is managed by the group by maintaining sufficient cash balances to offset any exposure on the bank loan.
The groups exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk management section of this note.
k Interest rate sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
A 0.5% increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and represents managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates.
49 Autonomy Corporation plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 27.
Financial Instruments continued If interest rates had been 0.5% higher lower and all other variables were held constant, the groups: profit for the year ended 31 December 2008 would decrease increase by $0.2 million 2007: decrease increase by $0.2 million.
This is mainly attributable to the groups exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings: and other equity reserves would be unaffected by the change in either year.
The groups sensitivity to interest rates has decreased during the current period as repayments of the bank loan have reduced the outstanding balance.
l Other price risks The group is exposed to equity price risks arising from equity investments.
The shares included above represent investments in listed equity securities that present the group with opportunity for return through dividend income and trading gains.
Equity investments designated as available for sale are held for strategic rather than trading purposes.
The group does not actively trade these investments.
m Equity price sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on the exposure to equity price risks at the reporting date.
If equity prices had been 25% higher lower, other equity reserves would increase decrease by $1.3 million 2007: $3.9 million for the group as a result of the changes in fair value of available-for-sale shares.
The groups investment in blinkx is a strategic long term investment following the demerger and is expected to be held for the foreseeable future.
Due to the early stages of this entity it is likely that there will be volatility in the share price and hence the value of this investment may vary significantly from period to period.
n Credit risk management The group is principally exposed to credit risk over its trade receivables.
Details regarding the management of this risk are provided in note 15.
The groups investments in equity are in technology companies where management do not anticipate to receive dividends.
No significant credit risk has been identified in relation to these investments.
The company does not invest its funds in deposits with maturities exceeding one month and therefore there is no significant price risk on cash and cash equivalents.
o Liquidity risk management Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the board of directors, which has built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the groups short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
