Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial liabilities All financial liabilities are classified as other financial liabilities.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Derecognition of financial liabilities The group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Derivative financial instruments The group does not use derivative financial instruments.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty a Critical judgements in applying the groups accounting policies In the process of applying the groups accounting policies, which are described in note 2, management have made the following judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements apart from those involving estimations, which are discussed below.
Revenue recognition There are no significant judgements which management consider have a material impact on the financial statements.
The accounting policy set out in note 2 has been followed with no significant judgements required to be made.
b Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Recoverability of internally generated intangible assets During the year $11.2 million 2007: $6.9 million of internally generated intangible assets were capitalised as required in accordance with IAS 38.
Management have assessed expected revenues to be generated from these assets and deemed that no adjustment is required to the carrying value of the assets.
Impairment of goodwill Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units CGU to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows of the CGU and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
The carrying amount of goodwill at the balance sheet date was $796.6 million 2007: $820.1 million.
Trade receivables The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade receivables approximates their fair value.
A provision has been made for estimated unrecoverable amounts based on information available to management.
Changes in collectability of trade receivables may impact the level of provision required.
