Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements for the group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and have also elected to prepare financial statements for the company in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We confirm to the best of our knowledge: 1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and 2. the management report, which is incorporated into the directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
On behalf of the Board, Dr. Michael R. Lynch Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder 27 February 2009 Registered Office: Cambridge Business Park, Cowley Road, Cambridge CB4 0WZ Registered Number: 3175909 23 Autonomy Corporation plc
