Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
General information Autonomy Corporation plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 1985.
The registered office is at Autonomy House, Cambridge Business Park, Cowley Road, Cambridge CB4 0WZ, UK.
The nature of the groups operations and its principal activities are set out on page 10.
The companys functional currency is sterling as that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the company operates.
The presentational currency is dollars as that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
Adoption of new and current standards Three interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee are effective for the current period.
These are IFRIC 11 IFRS2: Group and Treasury Share Transactions: IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements: and IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit of a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
The adoption of these interpretations has not led to any changes in the Groups accounting policies.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 1 revised First Time Adoption of IFRS Amendments to IFRS 2 Vesting conditions and cancellations IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations IFRS 8 Operating segments IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers IAS 1 revised Presentation of Financial Instruments IAS 23 revised Borrowing Costs Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements IAS 32 amended IAS 1 amended Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items Amendments to IAS 39 Reclassification of Financial Assets: Effective Date and Transition The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the group, except for additional segment disclosures when IFRS 8 comes into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
Significant accounting policies a Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of equity investments and financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the company are set out below.
"The going concern basis has been adopted in preparing the financial statements, as described in more detail on page 11. b Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the company and entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries, together the Group"" made up to 31 December each year."
Control is achieved where the company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency Autonomy Corporation plc 30
