Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 15.
Other financial assets continued The average credit period for trade receivables is 84 2007: 83 days.
The group has credit risk with respect to trade receivables due from its customers.
Autonomy has over 17,000 customers spread across diverse industries and geographical areas and hence the concentration of credit risk from trade receivables is limited due to the large and broad customer base.
A large proportion of the groups customer base includes various governments and large blue-chip companies which also limits the exposure to credit risk.
The company has no material risk associated with new customers or resellers who the company has no experience of trading with.
Allowance is made for bad and doubtful debts based on managements assessment of the risk taking into account the ageing profile, experience and circumstance.
Interest charged when amounts from customers are past due is not material.
Ongoing credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable and, where appropriate, credit guarantee insurance cover is purchased.
The group does not have any debtors with renegotiated terms.
Included in the groups trade receivables balance are debtors with a carrying amount of $47.9 million 2007: $34.3 million which are past due at the reporting date and not impaired.
Of the amounts over 90 days past due a large proportion relates to balances for which the group has not yet recognised the revenue and hence no significant exposure is present.
The remaining balance of $93.4 million 2007: $76.2 million is not yet due.
Of this balance $6.5m 2007: $nil is due after one year.
The groups allowance for doubtful debts increased to $12.3 million 2007: $5.5 million.
The charge for the year, net of amount utilized, was $6.8 million 2007: credit of $0.2 million.
Trade receivables that are past due are provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts determined by reference to past default experience and any other relevant circumstances.
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable the group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date.
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated.
Accordingly, the directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts.
No individual debt accounts for more than 10% of this balance in either year.
Other receivables includes a balance of $6.0m 2007: $nil which is due after more than one year.
b Bank balances and cash Bank balances and cash comprise cash held by the group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
c Credit risk The groups principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables.
The groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the groups management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment.
The credit risk on liquid funds is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
Other than as noted in a above, the group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
