82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS:82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS 1 4 09 16:07 Page 112 NOTI CE OF ANNUAL G ENERAL MEETI N G Notice is hereby given that the forty-fifth Annual General generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all the Meeting of Travis Perkins plc will be held at Northampton Rugby powers of the Company to allot: Football Club, Franklins Gardens, Weedon Road, Northampton, NN5 5BG on Thursday 21 May 2009 at 11.45 a. m. a relevant securities as defined in the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 4,090,637: and The Resolutions Resolutions 1 to 9 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary b relevant securities comprising equity securities resolutions.
Resolutions 10 to 12 inclusive will be proposed as as defined in the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate special resolutions.
nominal amount of 8,181,274 such amount to be reduced by the aggregate nominal amount of relevant Ordinary Business securities issued under paragraph a of this resolution 9 1.
To receive the Companys annual accounts for the financial in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: year ended 31 December 2008, together with the directors report, and the directors remuneration report and the i. to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as auditors report on those accounts and on the auditable part may be practicable to their existing holdings: and of the directors remuneration report.
to holders of other equity securities as required by the 2.
To re-appoint Andrew Simon as a non-executive director, who rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as is retiring by rotation pursuant to Article 76 of the Companys the directors otherwise consider necessary, Articles of Association.
Biographical details of Andrew Simon appear on page 41. and so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which 3.
To re-appoint John Carter as a director, who is retiring by they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with rotation pursuant to Article 76 of the Companys Articles of treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, Association.
Biographical details of John Carter appear on legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the page 40. laws of, any territory or any other matter, such authorities to apply until the end of the Companys 4.
To re-appoint Tim Stevenson as a non-executive director, who next annual general meeting after this resolution is is retiring by rotation pursuant to Article 76 of the Companys passed or, if earlier, until the close of business on Articles of Association.
Biographical details of Tim Stevenson 30 June 2010 but, in each case, so that the Company appear on page 40. may make offers and enter into agreements before the authority expires which would, or might, require 5.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP, Chartered Accountants, as auditors relevant securities to be allotted after the authority of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of this expires and the Directors may allot relevant securities meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting of under any such offer or agreement as if the authority the Company at which accounts are laid and to authorise the had not expired.
Directors to fix their remuneration.
That, in substitution for all existing powers and subject 6.
To re-appoint as a director any person who has been to the passing of resolution 9, the Directors be generally appointed as a director by the Board in accordance with Article empowered to allot equity securities as defined in the 72 of the Companys Articles of Association after 1 April 2009 Companies Act 1985 for cash pursuant to the authority but prior to this Annual General Meeting.
See Note 10 granted by resolution 9 and or where the allotment constitutes an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 94 3A of the Companies Act 1985, in each case free of the restriction Special Business 7.
That the directors remuneration report for the financial in section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985, such power to year ended 31 December 2008 set out on pages 49 to 57 be limited: be approved.
a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of equity securities but in the case 8.
That the authorised share capital of the Company be increased from 13,500,000 to 22,000,000 by the creation of an allotment pursuant to the authority granted of 85 million ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
by paragraph b of resolution 9, such power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities in 9.
That, in substitution for all existing authorities, the Directors be connection with an offer by way of a rights issue only : 112 82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS:82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS 1 4 09 16:55 Page 113 NOTICE OF ANNU AL GENER AL MEETI NG i. to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as 12.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and may be practicable to their existing holdings: and unconditionally authorised to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the ii.
to holders of other equity securities, as required by Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, the capital of the Company ordinary shares, provided that: as the directors otherwise consider necessary, a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary and so that the Directors may impose any limits or shares authorised to be purchased is 12,271,911 restrictions and make any arrangements which they representing 10% of the issued share capital of the consider necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury Company as at 18 February 2009 : shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be any territory or any other matter: and paid for an ordinary share is its nominal value of 10 pence: b to the allotment of equity securities pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph a of resolution 9 and or c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be an allotment which constitutes and allotment of equity paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of securities by virtue of section 94 3A of the Companies the average of the middle market quotations for an Act 1985 in each case otherwise than in the ordinary share as derived from The London Stock circumstances set out in paragraph a of this resolution Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days 10 up to a nominal amount of 613,596 calculated, in immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary the case of equity securities which are rights to subscribe share is purchased: for, or to convert securities into, relevant shares as defined in the Companies Act 1985 by reference to the d this authority expires at the conclusion of the next Annual aggregate nominal amount of relevant shares which may General Meeting of the Company or 30 June 2010, be allotted pursuant to such rights.
whichever is the earlier: and Such power to apply until the end of the Companys next e the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary annual general meeting after this resolution is passed or, if shares under this authority before the expiry of such earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2010 but so authority, which will or may be executed wholly or partly that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements after the expiry of such authority, and may make a before the power expires which would, or might, require equity purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such securities to be allotted after the power expires and the contract.
Directors may allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
By order of the Board Andrew Pike Company Secretary 11.
That a general meeting other than an annual general meeting Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton NN5 7UG may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
18 February 2009 Registered in England No.
824821 Directions to Northampton Rugby Football Club can be found on page 116.
