82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS:82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS 1 4 09 16:07 Page 114 NOTES TO TH E NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 1.
A member of the Company is entitled to appoint a proxy to or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at a appropriate action on their behalf.
general meeting of the Company.
A member may appoint In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST more than one proxy, provided that each proxy is appointed to to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy exercise the rights attaching to different shares.
A proxy need Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance not be a member.
with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as 2.
To appoint more than one proxy, an additional proxy form s described in the CREST Manual.
The message must be may be obtained by contacting the Registrars or you may transmitted so as to be received by the Companys agent ID photocopy the form.
Please indicate in the box next to the RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time they are authorised to act as your proxy.
Please also indicate of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the by ticking the box provided if the proxy instruction is one of timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application multiple instructions being given.
All forms must Host from which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the be signed and should be returned together in the same message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by envelope.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST 3.
The right to appoint a proxy under note 1 above does not apply sponsors and voting service providers should note that to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available person and who have been nominated to receive special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
communication from the Company in accordance with Section Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take the registered shareholder who holds shares on their behalf or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors 4.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy and any or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of such authority for the Annual General Meeting to be held of the CREST system and timings.
at Northampton Rugby Football Club, Franklins Gardens, The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Weedon Road, Northampton, NN5 5BQ at 11.45 am on Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a Thursday 21 May 2009 and any adjournment s thereof must of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. be returned to Capita Registrars, Proxy Department, The In each case the proxy appointments must be received by Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, the Company not less than 48 hours before the time by 11.45 am on 19 May 2009.
Alternatively you may submit appointed for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
your proxy form online by accessing the Shareholder portal at A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice.
com, logging in and selecting the Proxy appointment of a proxy does not preclude a member from Voting link.
If you have not previously registered for electronic attending the meeting and voting in person, in which case any communications, you will first be asked to register as a new votes of the proxy will be superseded.
user, for which you will require your investor code which can be found on the enclosed proxy form, your share certificate 5.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities and dividend tax voucher, family name and post code if Regulations 2001, only those members entered on the resident in the UK.
register of members of the Company as at 6.00 p. m on CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies Tuesday 19 May 2009 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their do by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
Changes to entries on the register of CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members after that time shall be disregarded in determining members, and those CREST members who have appointed a the rights of any person to attend or vote at voting service provider s should refer to their CREST sponsors the meeting.
114 82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS:82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS 1 4 09 16:07 Page 115 NOTES T O THE NOTICE OF ANNU AL GENER AL MEETI NG 6.
The register referred to in note 5 means the issuer register of representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if members and the operator register of members maintained in more than one corporate representative for the same accordance with Regulation 20 of the Uncertificated Securities corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate Regulations 2001. shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate 7.
The following documents will be available for inspection at the representative will be nominated, from those corporate Registered Office of the Company during usual business hours representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excluded other corporate representatives will give voting directions to from the date of this Notice to the date of the meeting and at that designated corporate representative.
Corporate Northampton Rugby Football Club from 11.15 a. m. on the day shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the of the meeting until the conclusion of the meeting.
Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk forThe register of directors interests kept by the Company.
Copies of contracts of service of directors and nonfurther details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a executive directors letters of appointment with the sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being Company, or with any of its subsidiary companies.
appointed as described in i above.
A copy of the Companys Articles of Association.
A statement giving particulars of directors relevant 10.
At the time of printing this Notice, the Board is expecting to transactions.
appoint an additional non-executive director in the near future.
It is the Boards expectation that the appointment will take 8.
At 18 February 2009 being the latest practicable date before place before this Annual General Meeting is held.
According publication of this notice the issued share capital of the to Article 72 of the Companys Articles of Association, a person Company consisted of 122,719,114 ordinary shares, carrying appointed as a director by the Board may hold his post only one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the until the dissolution of the next annual general meeting.
Therefore, if the above appointment takes place as expected, the Annual General Meeting will be asked to consider and, if 9.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives thought fit, approve a resolution for the re-appointment of that at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the person.
As the appointment is still under discussion, it is not meeting so that: i if a corporate shareholder has appointed possible to provide with this Notice the name of, or details the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative concerning, the proposed director.
The Board can confirm, with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the however, that it will send to shareholders a copy of the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that announcement made by the Company pursuant to the Listing shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate Rules in relation to the appointment of the new director once representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and this has been made.
the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate 115
