82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS:82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS 1 4 09 16:06 Page 71 NOTES TO TH E FI NAN CIAL STATEMEN TS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Overview Travis Perkins plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is given on page 117.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Chief Executives review of the year, the Chief Operating Officers review of the year and the Finance Directors review of the year on pages 10 to 38.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared on the historic cost basis, except that derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group from the date control commences until the date that control ceases.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
As such, the results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not yet been applied in these financial statements were in issue, but not yet effective: IFRS 2 Amended - Share Based Payment IFRS 3 Revised - Business Combinations IAS 1 - Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 27 Revised - Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements IFRS 8 - Operating Segments The Directors anticipate that adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Management is currently of the opinion that the Groups forecasts and projections, show that the Group should be able to operate within its current facilities and comply with its banking covenants.
The Group is, however, exposed to a number of significant risks and uncertainties which could impact on the Groups ability to meet managements forecast and projections and hence its ability to meet its banking covenants.
The Directors believe that the Group has the flexibility to react to changing market conditions and is adequately placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook and challenging macro economic conditions.
Whilst a covenant breach is not currently envisaged, the Directors have considered mitigating actions available to them should a covenant breach become a possibility.
A detailed consideration of going concern, risks and uncertainties is provided on pages 34 to 38 in the Finance Directors review of the year.
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies adopted in preparing the financial statements are set out below.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised when goods or services are received by the customer and the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to them.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts and value added tax.
Exceptional Items Exceptional items are those items of income and expenditure that by reference to the Group are material in size and unusual in nature or incidence, that in the judgement of the Directors, should be disclosed separately on the face of the financial statements or in the notes in 71 82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS:82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS 1 4 09 16:06 Page 72 the case of a segment to ensure both that the reader has a proper understanding of the Groups financial performance and that there is comparability of financial performance between periods.
Items of income or expense that are considered by the Directors for designation as exceptional items include, but are not limited to, such items as significant restructurings, onerous contracts, write-downs or impairments of current and non-current assets, the costs of integrating acquired businesses, gains or losses on disposals of businesses, investments or individual assets, re-measurement gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments to the extent that hedge accounting is not achieved or is not effective.
Business combinations and goodwill All business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of an acquisition represents the cash value of the consideration and or the fair value of the shares issued on the date the offer became unconditional, plus expenses.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
It is this fair value, which is incorporated into the consolidated accounts.
Goodwill arising on acquisition represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the share of the aggregate fair value of identifiable net assets including intangible assets of a business or a subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
All material intangible fixed assets obtained on acquisition have been recognised separately in the financial statements.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset and allocated to cash generating units, then at least annually, is reviewed for impairment.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed, as such, goodwill is stated in the balance sheet at cost less any provisions for impairment in value.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS 1 January 2004 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Intangible assets Intangible assets identified as part of the assets of an acquired business are capitalised separately from goodwill if the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
Intangible assets are amortised to the income statement on a straight-line basis over a maximum of 20 years except where they are considered to have an indefinite useful life.
In the latter instance they are reviewed annually for impairment.
Investment properties Investment properties, which are held to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or for both, are stated at deemed cost less depreciation.
Properties are depreciated to their estimated residual value on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, up to a maximum of 50 years.
Rental income from investment property is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Assets are depreciated to their estimated residual value on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Buildings - 50 years or if lower, the estimated useful life of the building or the life of the lease Plant and equipment - 4 to 10 years Freehold land is not depreciated Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets, or where shorter, the term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds net of expenses and the carrying amount of the asset in the balance sheet and is recognised in the income statement.
Where appropriate, the attributable revaluation reserve remaining in respect of properties revalued prior to the adoption of IFRS is transferred directly to accumulated profits.
Leases Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease rental payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Reverse lease premia and other incentives receivable for entering into a lease agreement are recognised in the income statement over the life of the lease.
72 82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS:82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS 1 4 09 16:06 Page 73 Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill The carrying amounts of the Groups tangible and intangible assets other than investment properties, deferred tax assets and inventories are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If such an indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated and compared to its carrying value.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit CGU to which the asset belongs.
Where the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount a provision for the impairment loss is established with a charge being made to the income statement.
For intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life the recoverable amount is estimated at each annual balance sheet date.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGU are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
Inventories Inventories, which consist of goods for resale, are stated at the lower of average weighted cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less the estimated costs of disposal.
Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are measured at amortised cost which is carrying amount less provision for irrecoverable amounts.
Allowances for the estimated irrecoverable amounts are made in the income statement when the receivable is considered to be uncollectible.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets are treated as impaired when in the opinion of the Directors, the likelihood of full recovery is diminished either by events or change of circumstance.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank and other borrowings Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts, loan notes and other loans are recognised in the balance sheet at amortised cost.
Finance charges associated with arranging a bank facility are recognised in the income statement over the life of the facility.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Trade payables Trade payables are measured at amortised cost.
Foreign currencies Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates ruling on the date of the transaction.
At the consolidated balance sheet date, unhedged monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risks arising from financing activities.
The Group does not enter into speculative financial instruments.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is the estimated amount the Group would receive or pay to terminate the derivative at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest and exchange rates and the current creditworthiness of the counterparties.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, that are designated and effective as hedges of the future variability of cash flows, are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value of a hedged item, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in the income statement.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken to the income statement as they arise.
Derivatives embedded in commercial contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the underlying contracts, with unrealised gains or losses being reported in the income statement.
The fair value of hedged derivatives is classified as a non-current asset or non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the hedge relationship is more than 12 months, otherwise they are classified as current.
Foreign currency forward contracts are not designated effective hedges and so are marked to market at the balance sheet date, with any gains or losses being taken through the income statement.
73 82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS:82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS 1 4 09 16:06 Page 74 Financial assets and financial liabilities Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL, availablefor-sale AFS financial assets and loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at FVTPL or other financial liabilities.
The Group has defined the classes of financial assets to be other financial assets, cash and borrowings, derivative financial instruments and trade and other payables.
Financial assets and financial liabilities at FVTPL Financial assets and financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL where the financial asset or the financial liability is either held for trading or it is designated as FVTPL.
A financial asset or financial liability is classified as held for trading if: it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling or of disposal in the near future: or it is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pat tern of shortterm profit-taking: or it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument.
Financial assets and financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement unless it is an effective cash flow relationship.
The net gain or loss recognised in the income statement incorporates any interest earned or paid on the financial asset and financial liability respectively.
Loans and receivables Trade receivables and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables which applies to all amounts owed to the Group when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire: or it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and the deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items which are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
This is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
