82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS:82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS 1 4 09 16:07 Page 117 OTH ER SH AR EHOLD ER I N FORM ATION SH AR EHOLD ER ENQ UI RIES Some of the sites provide information about branch locations and allow access to prices and the product range available.
Shareholder enquiries should be directed to the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office Lodge Way House, Customers are also able to construct their own price quotation Lodge Way, Harlestone Road, Northampton NN5 7UG telephone that includes any special price arrangements that have been 01604 752424: email cosec@travisperkins.
co. uk or to the negotiated with the Group.
Companys registrars, Capita Registrars, at Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield, HD8 0GA telephone E LECTRON I C COMMUN I CATION 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras : In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys email ssd@capitaregistrars.
Articles of Association, the Company is allowed to use its website Should your query relate to a pensions matter please email to publish statutory documents and communications to pensions@travisperkins.
co. uk or if your query relates to a shareholders, such as the Annual Report and Accounts and the marketing matter please email marketing@travisperkins.
You can therefore view or download a copy of the Annual Report and Accounts and the Notice of the AGM by FI NAN CIAL DIARY going to our website at www.
com see section Annual General Meeting 21 May 2009 called Investor Centre.
If you received a hard copy of this report in the post then you will not have consented to this method Announcement of interim results July 2009 Announcement of 2009 annual results February 2010 of publication.
Should you now wish to consent to this method of publication, you should contact Capita Registrars, Shareholder Administration Support, Freepost RLYX-GZTU-KRRG, ANNUAL G ENERAL MEETI N G CATERI N G AR R AN G EMEN TS 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, BR3 9ZA.
By reducing the It has always been the Companys custom to provide a light number of communications sent by post, it will not only result in cost savings to the Company but also reduce the impact that the luncheon for shareholders following the A. G. M. This year, a buffet luncheon will be available.
Unlike in previous years, you need not unnecessary printing and distribution of reports has on the notify the Company in advance if you would like lunch.
Please note that if you consent to website publication, you will continue to be notified each time that the I NTER NET Company places a statutory communication on the website.
This There are sites on the internet that carry a range of information notification will be sent to you by post.
However, you may also about the Group and its principal brands, products and services choose to receive notifications by e-mail and we would encourage at the following addresses: you to do so.
If you wish to receive these notifications by email, you should register at www.
com investor relations site the instructions given below under the heading Accessing the www.
co. uk Please telephone Capita Registrars on 0871 664 0391 www.
co. uk within the UK, calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras www.
co. uk or 44 20 8639 3367 if calling from outside the UK if you have any queries.
co. uk These sites allow credit account holders to order on-line with the exception of the Wickes, Toolsinthepost and ToolStation sites which allow on-line ordering by secure card transaction.
117 82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS:82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS 1 4 09 16:07 Page 118 OTHER SHAREHOLDER I NFORMA TION CAPITA REGISTRARS NOTES 1.
Before consenting to receive documents and communications The Companys registrars, Capita Registrars Capita, provide a via the website, shareholders should ensure that they have a number of services that, as a shareholder, might be useful to you:- computer with internet access and the Adobe Acrobat reader facility.
The Adobe Acrobat reader software may be obtained via Registrars On-line Service the website free of charge.
com and following the prompts, shareholders can view and amend various details on 2.
If you elect to receive notifications of the publication of the their account.
Please note that you will need to register to use this documents and communications on the website electronically, service for which purpose you will require your unique investor it will be your responsibility to notify our registrars, Capita, of code, which can be found on your share certificate, proxy card or any subsequent change in your e-mail address or other dividend tax voucher.
If you are not resident in the United Kingdom, it is your Capita offers an on-line and telephone share dealing service which responsibility to ensure that you may validly receive documents is available by logging on to www.
com or telephoning and communications electronically either generally or in 0871 664 0446 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
relation to any particular document or communication without For the on-line service, Capitas commission rates are 1% of the the Company being required to comply with any governmental value of the deal minimum 17.50, maximum 50 and for the or regulatory procedures or any similar formalities.
The telephone service, Capitas commission rates are 1.50% of the Company may deny electronic access to documents and value of the deal minimum 22.50, maximum 100.
An additional communications relating to certain corporate actions in respect 2.50 will be levied on all share dealings to cover Capitas of those shareholders who it believes are resident in compliance and administrative costs.
jurisdictions where it is advised that to provide such access would or may be a breach of any legal or regulatory Dividend Re-investment Plan DRIP requirements.
The Board has not proposed the payment of a final dividend for 2008.
Nevertheless, shareholders may wish to know about this 4.
The Companys obligation to provide shareholder documents plan, which allows you to use your dividends to buy further shares to you is satisfied when it transmits an electronic message.
The DRIP is administered by Capita IRG Trustees The Company is not responsible for any failure in transmission Ltd CIRGT.
CIRGT will instruct the broker to buy shares on the for reasons beyond its control any more than it is for postal dividend payment date at the then current market price.
In the event of the Company becoming aware that an left over which is insufficient to purchase a whole share will be electronic communication to you has not been successfully carried forward and held without interest, in a Client Money bank transmitted, a further two attempts will be made.
The DRIP commission, charged to the shareholder is 1% transmission is still unsuccessful, a hard copy of the relevant of the purchase price of the shares, with a minimum charge of notification will be posted to your registered address.
This is exclusive of stamp duty reserve tax at 0.5% of the deal value.
Should you wish to apply you should request 5.
Your registration to receive electronic communications and an application pack by telephoning 0871 664 0381 calls cost your relevant contact address details will stand until such time 10p per minute plus network extras or, if calling from as the Company receives alternative instructions from you by overseas 44 20 8639 3402: alternatively you can email e-mail or in writing.
The Company takes all reasonable precautions to ensure no Dupicate Share Register Accounts computer viruses are present in any electronic communication If you are receiving more than one copy of our report, it may be it transmits, but the Company shall not be responsible for any that your shares are registered in two or more accounts on our loss or damage arising from the opening or use of any e-mail register of members.
If that was not your intention you might or attachments sent by the Company or on its behalf.
The consider merging them into one single entry.
Please contact Company recommends that shareholders subject all Capita who will be pleased to carry out your instructions.
messages to computer virus checking procedures.
Any electronic communication received by or on behalf of the Overseas Shareholders Company, including the lodgement of an electronic proxy form, Capita has an International Payment Service that allows you to that is found to contain any computer virus will not receive your dividend payments in your local currency, sent directly be accepted.
to your local bank account - potentially saving you time and money.
Further details are available from Shareholder 7.
The Company reserves the right, irrespective of your election, Administration, Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham to revert to sending hard copy documentation by post Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU: telephone UK: 0871 664 0386 whenever it considers it necessary or desirable to Calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras or do so.
44 20 8639 3405 from outside the UK or by logging on to www.
118 82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS:82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS 1 4 09 16:07 Page 119 SHAREHOLDER NOTES 119 82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS:82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS 1 4 09 16:07 Page 120 SHAREHOLDER NOTES 120 82987 TRAVIS COVER colour for print.
qxp:82987 trav CVR 3 4 09 15:20 Page 2 OUR GROUP M ISSION Continue to deliver better returns by... putting in place and growing the best businesses, with outstanding people and operations, providing comprehensive building material solutions, to everyone creating, maintaining, repairing or improving the built environment,... helping to build Britain OUR GROUP VISION To ensure that anyone in Britain who wants to access any kind of building materials through any form of supply channel will have a Travis Perkins group operation as their first or first alternative choice OUR GROUP VALUES At Travis Perkins, we: Know our customers Like to deliver we understand their needs, beat their we enjoy being the best: we know exactly expectations, treat them with respect, and what each of us is expected to achieve: we know our major customers personally.
focus on getting results, simply.
Talk and listen Work together we say what we mean clearly and honestly, we actively work with each other: when we listen carefully: we respond objectively, something goes wrong, the first thing we we explain our decisions.
will do is fix the problem: not look for someone to blame.
Are with you, not against you we seek mutual benefits with all Always try to get better stakeholders: we think about the impact of we constructively challenge how we work: our actions: we search for similarities.
we look for fresh ideas that are different: we only have rules where they are necessary Know how to do our jobs because we use our common sense.
not just today, but for the next job: we equip ourselves with the skills needed to perform Are proud to be here and be confident we can perform.
this is a great company: everyone working with us is welcome: we make work enjoyable for everyone.
This document is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own financial advice from your stockbroker or other independent adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or transferred all of your shares in Travis Perkins plc, please forward this document, together with the accompanying documents, as soon as possible either to the purchaser or transferee or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
DESIGNED BY RWH DESIGN CONSULTANTS PHOTOGRAPHY BY CALVIN HEWITT PRINTED BY FOLIUM T R A V I S P E R K I N S P L C 2 0 0 8 A N N U A L R E P O R T A N D A C C O U N T S 82987 TRAVIS COVER colour for print.
