82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS:82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS 1 4 09 16:06 Page 71 NOTES TO TH E FI NAN CIAL STATEMEN TS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Overview Travis Perkins plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is given on page 117.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Chief Executives review of the year, the Chief Operating Officers review of the year and the Finance Directors review of the year on pages 10 to 38.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared on the historic cost basis, except that derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group from the date control commences until the date that control ceases.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
As such, the results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not yet been applied in these financial statements were in issue, but not yet effective: IFRS 2 Amended - Share Based Payment IFRS 3 Revised - Business Combinations IAS 1 - Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 27 Revised - Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements IFRS 8 - Operating Segments The Directors anticipate that adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Management is currently of the opinion that the Groups forecasts and projections, show that the Group should be able to operate within its current facilities and comply with its banking covenants.
The Group is, however, exposed to a number of significant risks and uncertainties which could impact on the Groups ability to meet managements forecast and projections and hence its ability to meet its banking covenants.
The Directors believe that the Group has the flexibility to react to changing market conditions and is adequately placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook and challenging macro economic conditions.
Whilst a covenant breach is not currently envisaged, the Directors have considered mitigating actions available to them should a covenant breach become a possibility.
A detailed consideration of going concern, risks and uncertainties is provided on pages 34 to 38 in the Finance Directors review of the year.
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies adopted in preparing the financial statements are set out below.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised when goods or services are received by the customer and the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to them.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts and value added tax.
Exceptional Items Exceptional items are those items of income and expenditure that by reference to the Group are material in size and unusual in nature or incidence, that in the judgement of the Directors, should be disclosed separately on the face of the financial statements or in the notes in 71
