82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:34 Page 64 I N D EPEN D EN T AUDITO RS R EPO R T TO TH E MEMBERS OF TRAVIS PERKI NS PLC FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 e have audited the Group and Parent Company if information specified by law regarding directors remunerafinancial statements the financial statements of tion and other transactions is not disclosed.
WTravis Perkins plc for the year ended 31 December We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement 2008 which comprise the Group and Parent Company Income reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of Statements, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does Group and Parent Company Statement of Recognised Income not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards stateand Expense and the related notes 1 to 37.
These financial ments on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an statements have been prepared under the accounting policies opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate goverfinance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We have also audited the information in the We read the other information contained in the Annual Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been Report as described in the contents section and consider audited.
whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a We consider the implications for our report if we become aware body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with state to the Companys members those matters we are required the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
any further information outside the Annual Report.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and B A SIS OF AUDIT OPI N IO N the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence R ESPECTIVE relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial stateR ESPO NSI BI LITIES OF ments and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be DI R ECT O RS AN D A UDIT O RS audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estiThe Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, mates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies in accordance with applicable law and International Financial are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
information and explanations which we considered necessary Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonpart of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in able assurance that the financial statements and the part of the accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregstatements give a true and fair view and whether the financial ularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the finanto be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with cial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial Report to be audited.
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors O P INI O N Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific informaIn our opinion: tion presented in the Chairmans statement, the Chief ExecutivesThe financial statements give a true and fair view, in accorreview of the year and the Finance Directors review of the year dance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the state of the Groups and the Parent Companys affairs as at Directors Report.
31 December 2008 and of the Groups and the Parent In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company Companys results for the year then ended: has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not receivedThe financial statements and the part of the Directors all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly 64 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 1 4 09 09:30 Page 65 I N DEPEN DENT A UDIT ORS REPOR T T O THE MEMBERS OF TR A VIS PERKI NS PLC prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and The information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
As explained in Note 1 to the group financial statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligations to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion, the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended.
Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Birmingham, United Kingdom 18 February 2009 65
