82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS:82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS 1 4 09 16:06 Page 75 Pensions and other post-employment benefits For defined benefit schemes, operating profit is charged with the cost of providing pension benefits earned by employees in the period.
The expected return on pension scheme assets less the interest on pension scheme liabilities is shown as a finance cost within the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the period from the difference between actual and expected returns on pension scheme assets, experience gains and losses on pension scheme liabilities and the effects of changes in demographics and financial assumptions are included in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Recoverable pension scheme surpluses and pension scheme deficits and the associated deferred tax balances are recognised in full in the period in which they occur and are included in the balance sheet.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Employee share incentive plans The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees long term incentives, executive share options and Save As You Earn, which do not include market related conditions.
These payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant by the use of the Black Scholes option-pricing model taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The cost of equity-settled awards is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Equity instruments and own shares The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share Based Payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 1 January 2005.
Equity instruments represent the ordinary share capital of the Group and are recorded at the proceeds received, net of directly attributable incremental issue costs.
Consideration paid by the Group for its own shares is deducted from total shareholder equity.
Where such shares vest to employees under the terms of the Groups share options or the Groups share save schemes or are sold, any consideration received is included in shareholders equity.
Dividends Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the period end are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION AND UNCERTAINTY These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The preparation of financial statements requires the Directors to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty.
Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgement based on various assumptions and other factors such as historical experience, current and expected economic conditions.
The Directors constantly re-evaluate these significant factors and makes adjustments where facts and circumstances dictate.
The Directors believe that the following accounting policies are critical due to the degree of estimation required and or the potential material impact they may have on the Groups financial position and performance: Inventory valuation Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Provisions for excess or obsolete inventory are recorded based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
The level of inventory provisioning required is sensitive to changes in the forecast sales of particular products which is dependent on changes in conditions in the Groups markets.
If changes in actual market conditions are less favourable than those projected, additional inventory provisions may be required: similarly if changes in actual market conditions are more favourable than predicted, it may be possible to release a proportion of the inventory provision.
Debtor recoverability The Group provides credit to a significant number of its customers.
At each period end an assessment is made of the extent to which those customers may not pay amounts due to the Group and a doubtful debt provision is established accordingly.
Determining the likelihood of the Group incurring bad debts requires the Directors to exercise judgement.
To the extent this judgement ultimately proves to be inaccurate it would change the profit for the period.
75 82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS:82987 TRAVIS ACCOUNTS 1 4 09 16:06 Page 76 Provisions for returns and warranty claims The products sold by the Group are covered by warranties given to it by the suppliers from whom the goods are bought.
Should any of those suppliers cease to trade then any liabilities for product warranties would rest with the Group.
In such circumstances the Directors would have to estimate the value of any provision required to meet the obligations of the Group.
At the balance sheet date the Directors have estimated that there is no need for any material warranty and product guarantee provisions to be made.
While the Directors believe that the Groups warranty provisions are adequate and that the judgements applied are appropriate, the ultimate cost of product warranty could differ materially from the estimates.
Income taxes The Group is subject to the income tax laws of the United Kingdom.
These laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by taxpayers and tax authorities.
When establishing income tax provisions, the Directors make a number of judgements and interpretations about the application and interaction of these laws.
Changes in these tax laws or in their interpretation could impact the Groups effective tax rate and the results of operations in a given period.
The process of estimating the Groups tax position requires an assessment of temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes.
These differences result in the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets are included within the consolidated balance sheet to the extent that we believe they are recoverable.
In recognising deferred tax assets, the Group considers profit forecasts including the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on sales and external market conditions.
Managements judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised where the Directors believe there are sufficient taxable temporary differences or convincing other evidence that sufficient taxable profit will be available in future to realise deferred tax assets.
Although the deferred tax assets which have been recognised are considered realisable, actual amounts could be reduced if future taxable income is lower than expected.
This can materially affect the Groups reported net income and financial position.
Goodwill In testing for impairment, the Directors have made certain assumptions concerning the future development of the business that are consistent with its annual budget and three-year plan.
Whilst the Directors consider these assumptions are realistic should these assumptions regarding the growth in profitability be unfounded then it is possible that goodwill included in the balance sheet could be impaired.
Further details concerning the impairment of goodwill and intangibles are given in note 14.
Pension liabilities The Group has chosen to adopt assumptions that Directors believe are in line with the median.
If the future return on equities is lower than anticipated, or if the difference between actual inflation and the actual increase in pensionable salaries is greater than that assumed, or if the average life expectancy of pensioners increases, then the pension deficit would be greater than currently stated in the balance sheet.
Property leases The Group is party to a number of leases on properties that are no longer required for trading.
Whilst every effort is made to profitably sublet these properties, it is not always possible.
Where a lease is onerous to the Group, a provision is established for the difference between amounts contractually payable to the landlord and amounts contractually receivable from the tenant if any for the period up until the point it is judged that the lease will no longer be onerous.
The Directors believe that their estimates, which are based upon the current state of the UK property market, are appropriate.
However, it is possible that it may take longer to dispose of leases than they anticipate.
As a result the provisions may be understated, but in the opinion of the Directors this is unlikely to be material.
Insurance provisions The Group has been substantially self-insured since 2001.
The nature of insurance claims is that they frequently take many years to fully crystalise, therefore the Directors have to estimate the value of provisions to hold in the balance sheet in respect of historic claims.
Under the guidance of the Groups insurance advisors, the value of incurred claims is estimated using the Generalised Cape Cod Method.
The provision is determined by deducting the value of claims settled to date from the estimated level of claims incurred.
Whilst the Generalised Cape Cod Method is an insurance industry standard methodology, it relies on historic trends to determine the level of expected claims.
To the extent that the estimates are inaccurate the Group may be underprovided, but in the opinion of the Directors any under-provision is unlikely to be material.
