GOODWILL The Group Builders Retail merchanting Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2007 939.2 342.8 1,282.0 Recognised on acquisitions during the year 18.9 28.8 47.7 At 1 January 2008 958.1 371.6 1,329.7 Recognised on acquisitions during the year 11.8 9.9 21.7 At 31 December 2008 969.9 381.5 1,351.4 At 31 December 2008, before impairment testing, goodwill and intangibles of 882.4m million was allocated to Wickes and 631.5m to the Merchanting business.
On the acquisition of the Wickes business, 250m of goodwill, which represented synergies arising from the acquisition, was allocated to the builders merchanting CGU.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of businesses during the year was allocated to those cash generating units CGU that are expected to benefit from those acquisitions.
With the exception of the Wickes business no individual CGU is significant in comparison with the total carrying amount of goodwill.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period.
These assumptions have been reviewed during the year in light of the current economic environment which has resulted in more conservative estimates about the future.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGUs.
As a result of these deliberations the Directors calculations have not shown there is any need to change the assumptions from last year.
The turnover growth rates in each CGU are based on the Directors expectations for the next 5 years.
Growth is predicted to be lower than in previous years as a result of the difficult economic conditions that are directly affecting the construction and related industries.
Changes in selling prices and direct costs used in the calculations are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market.
It is anticipated that like-for-like sales volumes will fall during 2009, flatten out for a period before resuming growth at a point in 2010.
At the beginning of the financial period the fair value of goodwill and intangibles in both segments was substantially in excess of its book value.
Due to current market conditions at the year end the fair value is closer to book value however, the Directors calculations have shown that no impairments have occurred.
The key assumptions applied in the value in use calculations were: Cash flow forecasts which were derived from the most recent financial budgets and plans for the three years ending 2011, whi ch were approved by the directors.
Cash flows for the following two years are extrapolated from cash flows for 2011 using similar assumptions to those applied to 2011: The weighted average cost of capital WACC of the Group of 7.5%: Long-term forecast growth rates of 2.5% in line with the average long-term GDP growth trend applied from 2014 onwards.
Whilst management believe the assumptions are realistic, it is possible an impairment would be identified if any of the above key assumptions were changed significantly.
For instance factors which could cause an impairment are: Significant underperformance relative to the forecast results: Changes to the way the assets are used or our strategy for the business: A deterioration in the industry or the economy.
The impairment review calculations are based upon anticipated discounted future cash flows.
These calculations are sensitive to changes in future cash flows, the discount rate applied and the terminal growth rate.
The Directors believe the assumptions used are appropriate, but have conducted a sensitivity analysis to determine the changes in assumptions that would result in an impairment to goodwill and intangibles of 100m: Merchanting Wickes Weighted average cost of capital increase 17.6% 0.9% Long term growth rate reduction 42.4% 1.1% On the basis of the assumptions stated above, the calculations show that for there to be no impairment in Wickes related goodwill and intangibles, its minimum operating profit in 2013 would need to be 41m, which compares to an underlying profit of 46m for 2008.
The Company has no goodwill.
