82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:34 Page 63 STATEMENT OF DI R ECTORS R ESPONSI BI LITIES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 he Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the finanrequired to: Tcial statements in accordance with applicable law andProperly select and apply accounting policies: regulations.
Present information, including accounting policies, in a Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and statements for each financial year.
The Directors are required understandable information: and by the IAS Regulation to prepare the group financial statementsProvide additional disclosures when compliance with the under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users adopted by the European Union and have also elected to to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions in the entitys financial position and prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accorfinancial performance.
dance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The finanThe Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting cial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a direcfinancial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This tors report and directors remuneration report and enhanced requires the faithful representation of the effects of transacbusiness review that comply with the requirements of the tions, other events and conditions in accordance with the defiCompanies Act 1985. nitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards integrity of the Company website.
Legislation in the United Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of finanFinancial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair prescial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
entation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable 63
