Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Accounting policies of TUI Tourism, First Choice and the holding company, TUI The following accounting policies have been applied Travel PLC.
Specifically, no adjustments have been made for consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated the impact of acquisition accounting in accordance with IFRS financial statements with the exception, as described below, 3 Business Combinations: the assets and liabilities of First of the pro forma financial comparative information presented Choice have not been restated to their fair value: and no for the year ended 30 September 2007. amortisation relating to the business combination has been recognised.
Also intra-group trading between TUI Tourism The financial statements are presented in the Groups and First Choice has not been eliminated, as required by presentational currency of Sterling, rounded to the nearest IAS 27: Consolidated and separate financial statements.
The unaudited pro forma financial information has been prepared for illustrative purposes only.
It has not been A Statement of compliance designed to and does not give a presentation of the income The consolidated financial statements for the year ended statement of the Group that would have been reported in 30 September 2008 have been prepared and approved by accordance with adopted IFRSs had the business combination the Directors in accordance with International Financial actually occurred before 1 October 2006.
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union Adopted IFRSs The consolidated financial statements iii Parent Company were approved on 26 November 2008.
TUI Travel PLC the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales under the Companies B Basis of preparation Act 1985 and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
i Business combination The Registered Office of the Company is TUI Travel On 3 September 2007, the TUI Travel PLC Group was formed House, Crawley Business Quarter, Fleming Way, Crawley, through a business combination of the tourism businesses West Sussex, RH10 9QL.
The Company was incorporated of TUI AG TUI Tourism with First Choice Holidays PLC on 29 January 2007 as Coppereagle PLC and changed its now First Choice Holidays Limited First Choice.
The name to TUI Travel PLC on 21 June 2007.
The Companys business combination was effected by way of TUI Travel PLC, first set of accounts were prepared for the seven-month a subsidiary of TUI AG, acquiring both TUI Tourism and First period ended 31 July 2007 and the Company then changed Choice.
On a consolidated basis, TUI Tourism is considered its accounting reference date to 30 September.
The profit to be the acquirer of First Choice.
As a result of the business disclosed in the Companys accounts is for the 14-month combination, First Choices listing on the London Stock period ended 30 September 2008.
Exchange was cancelled on that date and the ordinary shares of the new combined group, TUI Travel PLC, were admitted to The Company has elected to prepare its parent company the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
These are presented separately on pages 124 to 129. ii Comparative financial information iv Underlying measures of profits and losses The statutory comparative financial information represents the The Group believes that underlying operating profit and 9-month period from 1 January 2007 to 30 September 2007 underlying profit before tax provide additional guidance for the TUI Tourism businesses and includes one month of to statutory measures to help understand the underlying First Choice from the date of its acquisition on 3 September performance of the business during the financial period.
The Directors consider this 9-month period to 30 The term underlying is not defined under International September 2007 to be the appropriate statutory comparative Financial Reporting Standards.
It is a measure that is used as it represents the previous statutory reporting period of the by management to assess the underlying performance of deemed acquirer, TUI Tourism.
The subsequent acquisition the business internally and is not intended to be a substitute and one month inclusion of First Choice and the seasonality measure for Adopted IFRSs GAAP measures.
The Group of the business of the Group as a whole will mean that this defines these underlying measures as follows: statutory comparative period is not directly comparable to the current year.
Underlying operating profit is profit before financial income and expenses, taxation Group and share of joint ventures An unaudited pro forma income statement for the year ended and associates, separately disclosed items see Note 3, 30 September 2007 has been prepared by the Directors amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business on a pro forma basis to illustrate the effect of the business combinations and impairment of goodwill.
combination as if it had taken place prior to 1 October 2006 the first day of the pro forma comparative accounting period Underlying profit before tax is profit before taxation Group presented.
The unaudited pro forma income statement and share of joint ventures and associates, separately is included within the consolidated income statement disclosed items, amortisation of intangible assets acquired in and related notes.
This is to provide information which business combinations, impairment of goodwill and financing the Directors consider is meaningful, but it is not entirely expenses or income arising on the revaluation of minority comparable with the result for the year ended 30 September interest put option liabilities.
2008 because it is an aggregation of financial information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 64 Underlying earnings used in the calculation of underlying The Group financial statements consolidate those of the earnings per share is profit after tax excluding separately Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the disclosed items, amortisation of intangible assets acquired in Group and equity account the Groups interest in joint business combinations, impairment of goodwill and financing ventures and associates.
The parent company financial expenses or income arising on the revaluation of minority statements present information about the Company interest put option liabilities net of related taxation.
as a separate entity and not about the Group.
It should be noted that the definitions of underlying items i Subsidiaries being used in these financial statements are those used Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control by the Group and may not be comparable with the term exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, underlying as defined by other companies within both the to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity same sector or elsewhere.
so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable v Separately disclosed items or convertible are taken into account.
The financial Separately disclosed items are those significant items which statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated in managements judgement are highlighted by virtue of their financial information from the date that control commences size or incidence to enable a full understanding of the Groups until the date that control ceases.
Such items are included within the income statement caption to which they relate see Note 3. ii Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are jointly controlled entities whose activities vi Funding and Liquidity the Group has the power to jointly control, established by The Groups business activities, together with factors likely contractual agreement.
Associates are those entities in which to affect its future development, performance and position the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence, are set out in the Business and Financial Review on pages but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
In addition Note 25 sets out the Groups objectives, The consolidated financial statements include the Groups policies and processes for managing its capital: financial risks: share of the total recognised income and expense of joint financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures ventures and associates on an equity accounted basis, from to credit and liquidity risk.
the date that joint control or significant influence respectively commences until the date that it ceases.
When the Groups The Board remains satisfied with the Groups funding and share of losses exceeds the carrying amount of the joint liquidity position.
The two main sources of debt funding venture or associate, the carrying amount is reduced to nil are the shareholder loan from TUI AG, which is 1.0bn and and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to matures in January 2011, and the external bank 770m the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive revolving credit facility which matures in August 2012. obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
The ratio of Earnings Before Interest Taxation Depreciation and Amortisation EBITDA to fixed charges being the iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation aggregate amount of interest and any other finance charges Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains or income and in respect of borrowings and including all payments under expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated operating leases and the ratio of net debt to EBITDA, which in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised the Board believes to be the most useful measures of cash gains arising from transactions with associates and jointly generation and gearing, as well as being the main basis for the controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the Groups Groups credit facility covenants, are currently well within the interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the covenant limits.
Forecasts reviewed by the Board, including same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that forecasts adjusted for significantly worse economic conditions, there is no evidence of impairment.
show continued compliance with these covenants.
iv Acquisition in stages On the basis of its forecasts, both base case and adjusted When control is obtained in successive share purchases as described above, and available facilities, the Board has a step acquisition, each significant transaction is accounted concluded that the going concern basis of preparation for separately and the identifiable assets, liabilities and continues to be appropriate.
contingent liabilities acquired are stated at fair value when control is obtained.
The fair value of the acquirees C Basis of consolidation identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities may The consolidated financial statements are prepared on be different at the date of each purchase transaction.
Any the historical cost basis other than derivative financial adjustment to those fair values relating to previously held instruments, financial instruments held for trading, financial interests of the acquirer is accounted for as a revaluation.
instruments classified as available for sale and liabilities for cash-settled share-based payments, which are stated at their fair value.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 65 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued v Contingent acquisition consideration E Financial instruments Contingent consideration is recognised when the payment i Financial assets becomes probable and the amount can be reliably measured.
Financial assets are classified as loans and receivables, The purchase price is subsequently adjusted against goodwill available for sale financial assets, financial assets at fair or negative goodwill as the estimate of the amount payable value through profit or loss or as derivatives designated as is revised.
Financial assets include cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, other receivables, loans, other D Foreign currency investments, and derivative financial instruments.
The Group i Foreign currency transactions determines the classification of its financial assets at initial Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign recognition.
Financial assets are recognised initially at fair exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary value, normally being the transaction price plus, in the case of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly balance sheet date are translated to Sterling at the foreign attributable transaction costs.
The subsequent measurement exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences of financial assets depends on their classification, as follows: arising on translation are recognised in the income statement except for differences arising on the retranslation of a Loans and receivables financial liability designated as a hedge of the net investment Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets in a foreign operation, or qualifying cash flow hedges, which with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in are recognised directly in equity.
Non-monetary assets and an active market.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a using the effective interest method if the time value of money foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the is significant.
Gains and losses are recognised in income when date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value well as through the amortisation process.
This category of are translated to Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at financial assets includes trade and other receivables.
the dates the fair values were determined.
Available for sale financial assets ii Foreign operations Available for sale financial assets are those non-derivative The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including financial assets that are not classified as loans and receivables goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, or financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
After are translated to Sterling at the foreign exchange rates ruling initial recognition, available for sale financial assets are at the balance sheet date.
measured at fair value, with gains or losses recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is The revenues and expenses of overseas operations are derecognised or until the investment is determined to be translated at rates approximating to the foreign exchange impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange reported in equity is included in the income statement.
differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly Note 1Y describes the basis on which fair value is determined.
in equity in the Translation reserve, a designated foreign exchange reserve.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call iii Net investment in foreign operations deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and Foreign exchange gains and losses arising from a monetary form an integral part of the Groups cash management are item receivable from or payable to a foreign operation, included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the settlement of which is neither planned nor likely in the purpose only of the statement of cash flows.
the foreseeable future, are considered to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation and are recognised Derivatives directly in equity in the Translation reserve.
Foreign currency Derivatives are accounted for in accordance with the policy differences arising on the retranslation of a hedge of a net in 1E iii.
investment in a foreign operation are recognised directly in equity, in the Translation reserve, to the extent that the hedge ii Financial liabilities is effective.
These amounts recorded in the Translation reserve Financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities are released to the income statement upon disposal of the measured at amortised cost, financial liabilities at fair value foreign operation as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
through profit or loss or derivatives designated as hedging instruments.
Financial liabilities include trade and other payables, accruals, finance debt and derivative financial instruments.
The Group determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
Financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, normally being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
The subsequent measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, as follows: TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 66 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost For cash flow hedges, other than those covered by the All other financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value.
preceding two policy statements, the associated cumulative For interest-bearing loans and borrowings this is the fair value gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the of the proceeds received net of issue costs associated with the income statement in the same period or periods during which borrowing.
After initial recognition, other financial liabilities the hedged forecast transaction affects the income statement.
are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by Prospective hedge effectiveness is performed at the taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or commencement of hedge accounting, and subsequently at premium on settlement.
Gains and losses arising on the each balance sheet date, through comparison of the critical repurchase, settlement or cancellation of liabilities are terms of the hedged forecast transaction and the hedging recognised respectively in interest and other revenues and instrument.
Critical terms are the maturity, amount and finance costs.
This category of financial liabilities includes currency of the cash flows relating to the hedging instrument trade and other payables.
and the forecast hedged transaction.
Retrospective hedge effectiveness is performed at each reporting date principally Derivatives using a dollar offset analysis, comparing the cumulative Derivatives are accounted for in accordance with the policy changes in the fair values of the forecast hedged transaction in 1E iii.
iii Derivative financial instruments When a hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and fuel price risks or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship, arising from operational, financing and investment activities.
In hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
If the hedged accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
are accounted for as trading instruments.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
recognised in the income statement immediately.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
However, where ii Fair value hedges derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item hedge of the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or being hedged see Accounting Policy 1 F. liability or an unrecognised firm commitment, all changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognised immediately in iv Share capital the income statement.
The carrying value of the hedged item Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs is adjusted by the change in fair value that is attributable to directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares and the risk being hedged even if it is normally carried at cost or share awards are recognised as a deduction from equity, amortised cost and any gains or losses on remeasurement net of any tax effects.
are recognised immediately in the income statement even if those gains would normally be recognised directly in equity.
F Hedge accounting i Cash flow hedges G Revenue Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a Revenue represents the aggregate amount earned from hedge of the variability in cash flows arising from a recognised inclusive tours, scheduled and charter flying, provision asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, the of incoming agency destination services, travel agency effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial commission received and other services supplied to customers instrument is recognised directly in the hedging reserve.
Any in the ordinary course of business.
Revenue excludes intraineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately group transactions and is stated after the deduction of trade within the income statement.
Revenue is reported gross of fixed charges which are a liability of the tour operator or airline.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the These include Air Passenger Duty and other per passenger recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, charges and levies, including the ATOL Protection Contribution the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from the in the UK.
hedging reserve and is included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, the associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassified into the income statement in the same period or periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects profit or loss.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 67 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued i Revenue recognition iii Marketing and other direct sales costs Revenue is recognised in the income statement when Marketing, advertising and other promotional costs, including the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been those related to the production of brochures, are expensed transferred to the buyer.
Revenue in respect of in-house when the benefit of the goods or services is made available product is all recognised on the date of departure.
In particular, brochure costs are expensed when agency commissions and other revenues received from the the Group receives the related advertising or promotional sale of third-party product are recognised when they are material.
earned, typically on receipt of final payment.
Revenue from individual travel modules directly booked by the customer I Employee benefits with airlines, hotels and incoming agencies is recognised when i Defined contribution plans the customer departs or uses the respective service.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties as incurred.
regarding recovery of the consideration due, associated costs or possible return of goods.
ii Defined benefit plans The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit ii Client monies received in advance deferred income pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by Client monies received at the balance sheet date relating to estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have holidays commencing and flights departing after the year end earned in return for their service in current and prior periods.
is deferred and included within trade and other payables.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value and any unrecognised past service costs and the fair value of any iii Valuation of revenue plan assets is deducted in calculating the overall liability.
The Where the Group acts as principal, revenue is stated at the liability discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on contractual value of goods and services provided.
AA credit rated bonds denominated in the currency of, and having the same maturity dates approximating to the terms Where the Group acts as agent and collects amounts on of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by behalf of the principal provider of goods or services, revenue a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
is stated at the value of the commissions earned and not the total transaction sales value.
Where the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the asset recognised is limited to the present value of any future Where the Group acts as intermediary between the service refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions provider and the end customer, revenue is presented on a to the plan which are under the control of the Group.
net basis as the difference between the sales price to the customer and the cost of the services purchased.
Businesses When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of are identified as intermediaries dependent on a number of the increased benefit relating to past services by employees criteria, principally including: the control exercised over the is recognised as an expense in the income statement on provision of service, inventory risk, and customer credit risk.
a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
To the extent that the benefits vest iv Aircraft lease income immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the Operating lease rental incomes are recognised in operating income statement.
income as earned, on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
All actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the period they H Expenses occur directly in equity through the statement of recognised i Operating lease payments income and expense.
Either monthly or annual contributions Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the are made to funded schemes.
income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income iii Share-based payment transactions statement as an integral part of the total lease expense over Share-based payment transactions the term of the lease.
The Groups share award programmes allow certain Group employees to acquire shares of the Company: these awards ii Finance lease payments are granted by the Company.
The fair value of services is Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the measured by the fair value of the shares awarded at the time finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
of granting and is recognised as an employee expense with The finance charge is allocated to each period during the lease a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is spread term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on over the period during which the employee becomes entitled the remaining balance of the liability.
The fair value of the awards granted is measured using option valuation models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share awards that vest except where forfeiture is due only to market-based performance conditions not meeting the threshold for vesting.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 68 For cash-settled transactions, the resulting liability for the ii Deferred tax Group is charged to expenses at its fair value as at the Deferred tax is provided or recognised using the balance date of the performance of the service by the beneficiary.
sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences Until payment of this liability, the fair value of the liability between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for is remeasured at every reporting date and all changes in financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for the fair value are carried with an effect on results.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill not iv Own shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or Transactions of the Group-sponsored Employee Benefit Trust liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination, are included in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the In particular, the trusts purchase of shares in the Company extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable are debited directly in equity to retained earnings.
The amount of deferred tax asset recognised is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the v Short-term benefits carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates Short-term employee benefits are measured on an enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against J Financial income and expenses which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are Financial income comprises interest income on funds invested reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the including available for sale financial assets, dividend income, related tax benefit will be realised.
gains on the disposal of available for sale financial assets, changes in the fair value of financial assets or liabilities at fair L Dividends value through profit or loss, and gains on hedging instruments Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is that are recognised in profit or loss.
Interest income is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in recognised as it accrues in profit or loss, using the effective the period in which the dividends are appropriately authorised interest method.
Dividend income is recognised in profit or and approved for payment and are no longer at the discretion loss on the date that the Groups right to receive payment is of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these established, which in the case of quoted securities is the excriteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
M Earnings per share The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share Financial expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings, EPS data for its ordinary shares.
In respect of the year unwinding of the discount on provisions, changes in the fair ended 30 September 2008 basic EPS is calculated by dividing value of financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the or loss, impairment losses recognised on financial assets, and Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in profit or outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is determined by loss.
All borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss using adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares the effective interest method.
Foreign currency gains and outstanding for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary losses are reported on a net basis.
For the comparative periods, as the majority of the Groups share capital was not in issue for 8 months of the K Taxation period, the weighted average number of shares would not Income tax comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is give a meaningful result and therefore the number of shares recognised in the income statement except to the extent that outstanding at 30 September 2007 has been used to calculate it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it the prior year basic and diluted earnings per share.
The Group is recognised in equity.
also presents a basic and diluted underlying EPS measure based on underlying earnings as defined in Note 1 B above.
i Current tax Further details of the EPS calculation are presented in Note 33.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted N Non-current assets held for sale at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable A non-current asset or a disposal group containing a nonin respect of previous periods.
current asset is classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use, it is available for immediate sale and sale is highly probable within one year.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 69 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued On initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets iii Amortisation and disposal groups are measured at the lower of previous Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell with any straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic life adjustments taken to profit or loss.
The same applies to gains of each type of intangible asset as follows: and losses on subsequent remeasurement.
Computer software 3-10 years Any impairment loss on a disposal group is allocated first to Brands 15-20 years goodwill and then to remaining applicable assets on a pro Order book at date rata basis except no loss is allocated to inventories, financial of acquisition Over the period up until assets, deferred tax assets or employee benefit assets, which travel occurs continue to be measured in accordance with the Groups Customer relationships Over the period during which accounting policies.
value will be obtained by the Group up to 15 years O Investments Trade investments are classified as available for sale assets Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for and are included under non-current assets.
at fair value with movements in value taken to equity.
Any impairment to value is recorded in the income statement.
Q Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Short-term investments in debt and equity securities which Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost are held for trading are classified as current assets and are less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
Where significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted P Intangible assets for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
i Goodwill All business combinations are accounted for by applying the ii Leased assets purchase method.
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of Leased assets acquired by way of a finance lease are stated subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities.
at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the Goodwill represents the difference between the fair value of present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception consideration paid or payable and the net fair value of the of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Lease payments are accounted for as set out in Note Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately 1 H above.
or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights are separable.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any iii Depreciation accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a cash generating units and is not amortised but is tested straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic lives annually for impairment.
In respect of joint ventures and of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
associates, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in Freehold land is not depreciated.
The useful economic lives the carrying amount of the investment in the associate or are as follows: joint venture.
Freehold properties Up to 50 years Fair value adjustments are made in respect of acquisitions.
Short leasehold properties Lease period or useful If at the balance sheet date, the amounts of fair values of economic life if shorter the acquirees identifiable assets and liabilities can only be Owned aircraft Up to 18 years established provisionally, then these values are used.
Any Finance leased aircraft Lease period or useful adjustments to these values are taken as adjustments to and equipment economic life if shorter goodwill and must be recorded within 12 months of the Aircraft spares 12 years acquisition.
Yachts 5-15 years Motor boats 15-24 years Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised in Computer equipment including the income statement upon acquisition.
retail computer equipment 3-5 years Retail fixtures and fittings 8 years ii Computer software and other intangible assets Other assets 4 years Computer software consists of all software that is not an integral part of the related computer hardware.
Computer The cost of major overhauls of owned airframes and engines software and all other intangible assets are stated at cost is capitalised and depreciated over the period until the next less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 70 The depreciation methods, useful economic lives and residual All impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss.
Any values are reassessed annually.
Revisions to useful economic cumulative loss in respect of an available for sale financial lives and residual values are accounted for prospectively from asset previously recognised in equity is transferred to profit the date of change.
An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively to an event occurring after the Assets under contruction are not depreciated.
For financial assets measured at amortised cost and available for sale financial assets that iv Sale and leaseback transactions are debt securities, the reversal is recognised in profit or When a sale and leaseback results in a finance lease, any gain loss.
For available for sale financial assets that are equity on the sale is deferred and recognised as income over the securities, the reversal is recognised directly in equity.
Any loss on the sale is immediately recognised as an impairment loss when the sale occurs.
ii Non-financial assets The carrying amount of the Groups non-financial assets, If the leaseback is classified as an operating lease, then any other than inventory and deferred tax assets, are reviewed gain is recognised immediately if the sale and leaseback at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is terms are demonstrably at fair value.
Otherwise, the sale and any indication of impairment.
If such an indication exists, the leaseback are accounted for as follows: assets recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
If the sale price is below fair value then the gain or loss is recognised immediately other than to the extent that a loss An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying is compensated for by future rentals at a below-market amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its price, then the loss is deferred and amortised over the recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset period that the asset is expected to be used.
or cash generating unit is the greater of its value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
In assessing value in use, the If the sale price is above fair value, then any gain is deferred estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present and amortised over the useful life of the asset.
value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific If the fair value of the asset is less than the carrying to the asset.
A cash generating unit is the smallest identifiable amount of the asset at the date of the transaction, then group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely that difference is recognised immediately as a loss on the independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups sale.
R Impairments Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss.
Impairment i Financial assets losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of goodwill determine whether there is any objective evidence that it allocated to the cash generating unit and then to reduce the is impaired.
A financial asset is considered to be impaired if carrying amount of other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis.
objective evidence indicates that one or more events have had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset is calculated that the loss has decreased or no longer exists.
An impairment as the difference between its carrying amount and its loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates recoverable amount.
An impairment loss in respect of an used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment available for sale financial asset is calculated by reference loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying to its fair value.
The recoverable amount of the Groups amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would receivables which are carried at amortised cost is calculated as have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted if no impairment loss had been recognised.
at the original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition of these financial assets.
S Inventories Receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less Individually significant financial assets are tested for the estimated cost incurred until the sale and the estimated impairment on an individual basis.
The remaining financial variable costs required to sell.
All inventories are written assets are assessed collectively in groups that share similar down individually where the net realisable value of inventories credit risk characteristics.
is lower than their carrying amounts.
The measurement method applied to similar inventory items is the weighted average cost formula.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 71 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued T Provisions Where the Group has a written put option in respect of A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group a minority interest and has an unavoidable obligation to has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past purchase the shareholding, the minority interest is recorded event, it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits as a financial liability at fair value, rather than being reported will be required to settle the obligation and the outflow of as a separate component of equity.
No result is attributable economic benefits can be reliably estimated.
If the effect to minority shareholders and instead changes to the fair is material, provisions are determined by discounting the value of the financial liability are recorded at each period expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects end in the income statement within financing income or current market assessments of the time value of money and financing expense.
the risks specific to the liability.
On purchase or sale of a minority interest shareholding held i Maintenance provision for leased aircraft in a Group subsidiary, the Group recognises increases or To reflect the legal obligations placed upon the Group under decreases in its interest directly in equity.
the terms of certain operating leases, provision is made for the maintenance, overhaul and repair costs of operating V Related parties leased airframes, engines and certain other components.
The For the purpose of these financial statements, parties are provision is based on the present value of total anticipated considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the costs over the useful economic life of the asset calculated by ability directly or indirectly, to control the party or exercise reference to costs experienced and published manufacturers significant influence over the party making financial and data.
The charge to the income statement is calculated by operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the Group and the reference to the number of hours and cycles flown and party are subject to common control or common significant by reference to the length of the full overhaul cycle.
Related parties may be individuals or other entities.
incurred are charged against the provision.
Neither the timing nor the value of the expenditure can be precisely determined W Segment reporting but they can be averaged over time and over a fleet.
The A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that unwinding of discounted values is charged to the income is engaged either in providing related products or services statement as a financing expense.
business segment, or in providing products or services within a particular economic environment geographical segment, The cost of major overhauls of owned airframes and engines which is subject to risks and returns that are different from is capitalised and depreciated over the period until the next those of other segments.
Segment information is presented scheduled major overhaul.
in respect of the Groups business and geographical segments.
The Groups primary format for segment reporting is based ii Restructuring provision on business segments.
As described in Note 2, all items are A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group allocated to segments except corporate costs, net financial has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the expenses, and corporate assets and liabilities.
restructuring either has commenced or has been announced publicly.
Future operating costs are not provided for.
X Use of estimates The preparation of financial statements requires management iii Onerous contracts to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the the application of accounting policies and the reported expected benefits to be derived by the Group from the amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its results may differ from these estimates.
The provision is measured at the present value of the lower of the expected cost Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on of terminating the contract and the expected net cost of an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are continuing with the contract.
Before a provision is established, recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised the Group recognises any impairment loss on the assets and in any future periods affected.
Details of critical associated with that contract.
judgements, significant estimates and assumptions are disclosed in the relevant notes to the consolidated financial U Minority interest statements.
The key estimates and judgements are described In the consolidated balance sheet, the share of net assets in Note 31. attributable to minority shareholders is disclosed as a separate component of equity after share capital and reserves, although it is neither a financial liability nor an equity instrument.
The consolidated income statement discloses the amount of the result for the period attributable to minority shareholders.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 72 Y Determination of fair values vi Derivatives A number of the Groups accounting policies and disclosures The fair value of foreign currency contracts, fuel forward require the determination of fair value, for both financial contracts and option contracts is their forward market price and non-financial assets and liabilities.
Fair values have been at the balance sheet date, based on external valuations or determined for measurement and or disclosure purposes internal valuations using market data.
based on the following methods.
When applicable, further information about the assumptions made in determining fair vii Non-derivative financial liabilities values is disclosed in the notes specific to that asset or liability.
Fair value, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is calculated based on the present value of future principal i Property, plant and equipment and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate The fair value of property, plant and equipment recognised as of interest at the reporting date.
For finance leases the a result of a business combination is based on market values.
market rate of interest is determined by reference to similar The market value of property is the estimated amount for lease agreements.
which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms-length viii Share-based payments transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had The fair value of the awards granted is measured using option each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
valuation models, taking into account the terms and conditions The market value of items of plant, equipment, fixtures and upon which the awards were granted.
The valuation basis is fittings is based on the quoted market prices for similar items.
identical whether the awards will be settled in cash or shares.
ii Intangible assets Z New Standards and interpretations not yet adopted The fair value of intangible assets recognised as a result IFRS 8 Operating Segments has been endorsed by the of a business combination, including brands, customer European Union but is not effective or mandatory for the relationships and the customer order book at the date of year ended 30 September 2008 and has not been adopted acquisition are valued by reference to external market values in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
Income based methods estimate the future economic benefits to be derived from ownership of IFRS 8 introduces the management approach to segment the asset by identifying, quantifying and separating cash flows reporting and becomes mandatory for the Groups 2009 attributable to the asset and capitalising their present value.
IFRS 8 will require the presentation and disclosure of segment information to be iii Inventories based on the internal reports regularly reviewed by the The fair value of inventories acquired in a business Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker in order to assess combination is determined based on the estimated selling each segments performance and to allocate resources to price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated them.
Currently the Group presents segment information costs of completion and sale, and a reasonable profit margin in respect of its business and geographical segments based on the effort required to complete and sell the see Note 2.
The Group is currently assessing the impact inventories.
that this standard will have on the presentation of the consolidated results.
iv Investments in equity and debt securities The fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit The Group continues to monitor the potential impact of other or loss, held to maturity investments and available for sale new standards and interpretations which may be endorsed financial assets is determined by reference to their quoted by the European Union and require adoption by the Group in closing bid price at the reporting date.
The fair value of held future accounting periods.
to maturity investments is determined on initial recognition and thereafter for disclosure purposes only.
v Trade and other receivables The fair value of trade and other receivables is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 73 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Segmental information Segmental information is presented in the primary format by the Groups business Sectors and, in the secondary format, analysed by geography.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items comprise corporate costs, net financial expense, and corporate assets and liabilities.
A Sector analysis The Sector analysis is based on the Groups management and reporting structure.
A detailed explanation of each Sector is included in the Business and Financial Review.
Year ended 30 September 2008 Mainstream Sector Joint Total Online Ventures Central Northern Western Mainstream Specialist Activity Destination and Eliminations Total Europe Region Europe Sector Sector Sector Services Associates Corporate Group m m m m m m m m m m Revenue Total revenue 4,714.1 4,532.2 2,753.0 11,999.3 819.5 779.5 701.0 367.5 13,931.8 Inter segment revenue 12.3 155.1 0.5 167.9 0.2 199.4 367.5 External revenue continuing operations 4,701.8 4,377.1 2,752.5 11,831.4 807.8 705.4 495.0 13,839.6 acquired operations 11.5 74.1 6.6 92.2 Total external revenue 4,701.8 4,377.1 2,752.5 11,831.4 819.3 779.5 501.6 13,931.8 Operating loss profit 112.5 104.2 19.8 196.9 1.1 4.4 41.9 12.0 37.8 184.1 Amortisation of business combination intangibles 0.6 58.3 2.2 61.1 7.7 8.1 10.0 86.9 Separately disclosed items 62.6 223.6 15.3 301.5 17.3 45.8 5.5 10.6 380.7 Impairment of goodwill 111.7 111.7 111.7 Taxation on profits of joint ventures and associates 2.8 2.8 Underlying operating profit loss 62.4 177.7 37.3 277.4 26.1 49.5 57.4 14.8 27.2 398.0 Analysed as: continuing operations 62.4 177.7 37.3 277.4 26.2 41.9 56.6 14.8 27.2 389.7 acquired operations 0.1 7.6 0.8 8.3 398.0 Net financing expenses excluding separately disclosed finance charge of 4.2m 78.3 Underlying profit before tax 319.7 Pro forma year ended 30 September 2007 unaudited Mainstream Sector Joint Total Online Ventures Central Northern Western Mainstream Specialist Activity Destination and Eliminations Total Europe Region Europe Sector Sector Sector Services Associates Corporate Group unaudited unaudited unaudited unaudited unaudited unaudited unaudited unaudited unaudited unaudited m m m m m m m m m m Total external revenue 4,253.6 4,317.4 2,439.6 11,010.6 729.6 658.4 441.3 12,839.9 Operating loss profit 13.5 18.6 19.3 24.4 9.1 18.8 36.1 10.5 6.0 56.1 Amortisation of business combination intangibles 0.2 0.1 0.3 4.0 3.5 9.7 17.5 Separately disclosed items 27.8 91.2 26.7 145.7 2.9 17.3 3.4 22.0 147.3 Impairment of goodwill 23.4 23.4 13.9 37.3 Taxation on profits of joint ventures and associates 2.3 2.3 Underlying operating profit loss 41.5 96.1 7.4 145.0 29.9 39.6 49.2 12.8 16.0 260.5 Net financing expenses 37.7 Underlying profit before tax 222.8 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 74 9-month period ended 30 September 2007 Mainstream Sector Joint Total Online Ventures Central Northern Western Mainstream Specialist Activity Destination and Eliminations Total Europe Region Europe Sector Sector Sector Services Associates Corporate Group m m m m m m m m m m Revenue Total revenue 3,277.7 2,340.7 1,711.5 7,329.9 194.7 284.1 310.9 144.2 7,975.4 Inter segment revenue 4.3 2.7 13.3 20.3 123.9 144.2 Total external revenue 3,273.4 2,338.0 1,698.2 7,309.6 194.7 284.1 187.0 7,975.4 Operating profit 40.1 31.5 25.4 97.0 4.1 9.5 26.8 6.9 17.6 161.9 Amortisation of business combination intangibles 8.3 0.2 8.5 0.3 0.4 0.8 10.0 Separately disclosed items 14.5 40.3 5.4 60.2 0.2 0.1 1.1 27.7 33.9 Impairment of goodwill 22.9 22.9 22.9 Taxation on profits of joint ventures and associates 1.9 1.9 Underlying operating profit loss 54.6 103.0 31.0 188.6 4.6 10.0 28.7 8.8 10.1 230.6 Net financing expenses 9.4 Underlying profit before tax 221.2 30 September 2008 and the year then ended Mainstream Sector Joint Total Online Ventures Central Northern Western Mainstream Specialist Activity Destination and Total Europe Region Europe Sector Sector Sector Services Associates Corporate Group m m m m m m m m m m Balance Sheet Segment assets 1,230.3 3,636.3 1,184.3 6,050.9 597.4 813.9 1,252.4 114.4 498.2 9,327.2 Segment liabilities 1,609.9 1,975.1 934.2 4,519.2 266.0 279.1 468.7 1,197.8 6,730.8 Other disclosures Capital expenditure 20.3 102.7 37.4 160.4 3.4 26.3 18.0 208.1 Depreciation and amortisation of software 43.7 114.7 58.1 216.5 2.5 13.1 11.9 244.0 Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles 112.5 112.5 1.6 114.1 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 5.6 17.9 23.5 8.2 31.7 30 September 2007 and the 9-month period then ended Mainstream Sector Joint Total Online Ventures Central Northern Western Mainstream Specialist Activity Destination and Total Europe Region Europe Sector Sector Sector Services Associates Corporate Group m m m m m m m m m m Balance Sheet Segment assets 1,182.0 3,626.7 1,190.7 5,999.4 509.1 627.5 929.2 92.5 1,491.7 9,649.4 Segment liabilities 1,216.7 2,015.8 864.9 4,097.4 204.6 196.8 360.9 2,158.9 7,018.6 Other disclosures Capital expenditure 14.8 39.5 17.7 72.0 0.3 3.3 4.5 80.1 Depreciation and amortisation of software 27.9 64.6 24.7 117.2 0.3 3.3 4.0 124.8 Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles 22.9 22.9 22.9 The segmental assets and liabilities above do not include intercompany balances or investments that are eliminated at Group level, and therefore the analysis does not necessarily represent the net equity positions of the Sectors as if they were standalone entities.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 75 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued B Geographical analysis of business In presenting information on the basis of secondary geographic segments, segment revenue is based on the geographic location of the customer that generated that revenue.
Segment assets and capital expenditure are based on the geographical location of the assets.
Other Europe is defined as Continental Europe and Eire excluding UK, Germany and France.
This information is presented for the year ended 30 September 2008.
Comparative information is for the 9-month period ended 30 September 2007.
Separately disclosed items Pro forma year ended 9-month Year ended 30 September period ended 30 September 2007 30 September 2008 unaudited 2007 m m m Restructuring expenses 65.3 126.1 21.1 Merger related integration costs 164.3 20.9 18.8 Aircraft 151.1 10.7 16.8 Other 11.0 10.8 Total 380.7 147.3 33.9 Separately disclosed items are included within the income statement as follows: Pro forma year ended 9-month Year ended 30 September period ended 30 September 2007 30 September 2008 unaudited 2007 m m m Revenue 12.7 2.0 Cost of sales 228.2 53.4 5.1 Administrative expenses 139.8 93.9 26.8 Total 380.7 147.3 33.9 Restructuring expenses Costs incurred in the year ended 30 September 2008 relate to restructuring programmes that were already underway in both the First Choice and TUI Tourism businesses prior to the business combination as well as subsequent restructuring activities across all Sectors.
Costs also relate to the integration of acquired businesses into the Group.
Principal restructuring projects include the integration of the Sunsail and The Moorings businesses and the restructuring of Le Boat in TUI Marine, the rationalisation of the Nouvelles Frontires tour operator product and Corsair scheduled flying programme in France and an impairment charge in respect of the Thomson Alfresco assets.
The pro forma year ended 30 September 2007 includes major restructuring costs in the TUI Tourism businesses which were provided for in the quarter to 31 December 2006.
These costs are therefore not reflected in the 9-month statutory comparative period.
Merger related integration costs These relate primarily to the costs of integration of the UK businesses, combined with other one-time costs incurred as a result of the merger.
The majority of costs arise from the integration of First Choice and Thomson in the UK, and in particular from the formation of one airline and an integrated retail estate.
A combined Mainstream UK head office has been established in Luton.
Costs also arise from bringing together former Thomson Specialist businesses into the First Choice Activity and Specialist Sectors, notably Ski and UK specialist brands.
In the ODS Sector separate First Choice and TUI Tourism incoming agencies have been combined in a number of key destinations.
Costs include amounts paid or provided for redundancy and integration remuneration costs including the cost of the Value Creation Share Plan and rolled over First Choice share options Note 5, property closures and lease obligations, and professional fees relating to the integration project.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 76 IFRS 3 business combination fair value adjustments in respect of First Choice customer deposits held at 3 September 2007 reduced deferred income by 13.7m at that date, reducing statutory revenues for the year ended 30 September 2008.
This amount is included within separately disclosed integration items for the year ended 30 September 2008 in order to better present the underlying trading performance of the Group in the current year.
Aircraft Aircraft costs relate to the restructuring of the aircraft fleet.
In the year ended 30 September 2008 costs principally include sale and leaseback losses of 101.7m see Note 10 and write-downs on aircraft held for sale of 23.5m see Note 10.
Other items include fuel and related currency option premium costs and ineffectiveness on aircraft order book hedging, further details of which are set out in Note 25: adjustments to prior period maintenance provision assumptions: and other fleet reorganisation costs.
In the pro forma comparative period, the costs include 13.9m to bring TUI UKs accounting policy for maintenance provisions in line with the Groups accounting policy.
These costs are offset by sale and leaseback credits of 26.5m with remaining costs relating to the early termination of an aircraft lease in First Choice Airways.
In the 9-month statutory comparative period ended 30 September 2007, the net credit of 16.8m is the result of sale and leaseback profits of 30.7m offset by the 13.9m charge incurred as a result of the change in maintenance provisioning in TUI UK.
Other costs prior periods Other costs relate primarily to the cost of Airline Passenger Duty which was irrecoverable by the Group under the terms of the related, retrospective legislative change in 2006.
Net financial expenses 9-month Year ended period ended 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m Financial income Bank interest receivable 42.5 13.1 Interest on pension scheme assets 68.2 44.8 Interest receivable in respect of loans to parent 3.5 34.4 Other financial income 7.8 7.6 Total 122.0 99.9 Financial expenses Bank interest payable on loans and overdrafts 45.2 16.6 Interest payable in respect of loans from parent 66.8 26.8 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 71.8 47.1 Finance lease charges on leases 11.7 5.7 Unwinding of discount on provisions 4.0 2.0 Other financial expenses 5.0 11.1 Total 204.5 109.3 Net financial expenses 82.5 9.4 Net financial expenses as above 82.5 9.4 Non-underlying acquisition-related financial expenses 4.2 Net underlying financial expenses 78.3 9.4 The non-underlying acquisition-related financial expenses relate to the revaluation of a put option written by the Group in respect of a minority shareholder of LTUR Tourismus AG.
This option is exercisable until 2012.
Further details are given in Note 19.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 77 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Employees 9-month Year ended period ended 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 Number Number A Average number of employees By Sector Mainstream Sector 35,726 28,445 Specialist Sector 2,903 1,344 Activity Sector 4,199 836 Online Destination Services Sector 6,951 3,267 Corporate 222 174 Total 50,001 34,066 9-month Year ended period ended 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m B Staff costs Wages and salaries 1,262.8 583.9 Social security costs 216.8 147.9 Pension costs 54.8 34.3 Share-based payments Note 5D 14.2 4.9 Total 1,548.6 771.0 Included within wages and salaries are 81.5m 9-month period ended 30 September 2007: 18.0m of redundancy and integration costs.
These costs are included within separately disclosed items Note 3.
C Pension costs The Group operates pension schemes for employees eligible and wishing to participate in the schemes.
These comprise both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
Pension obligations vary reflecting the different legal and market conditions in each country of operation.
Defined contribution schemes are funded by the payment of contributions to private and state-run organisations, whilst defined benefit schemes comprise both funded and unfunded schemes.
The assets of all the funded defined benefit schemes are held separately from the assets of the Group.
Defined contribution schemes for employees and Directors Current contributions are recognised as an expense in the period, and once paid the Group has no further liability.
Pension costs of 24.5m 9-month period ended 30 September 2007: 10.6m relating to defined contribution schemes were charged to the income statement.
Defined benefit pension schemes The movement of defined benefit pension obligations and assets is detailed below, summarised as UK, Germany and Other territories.
Other territories includes funded schemes in Ireland, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Norway, and unfunded arrangements in Austria.
Almost all UK schemes are funded whilst German schemes are unfunded.
Similar obligations comprise early retirement, ill health retirement and statutory retirement lump sum provisions.
The principal funded schemes in the UK are shown in the table below.
These are closed to new members, with the exception of existing employees working towards their entry qualification date: Date of last full Average Group Average employee Scheme Name actuarial valuation contribution rate contribution rate Britannia Airways Limited Superannuation and Life Assurance Scheme 31 March 2006 40.2% plus 46.3m per annum 8.25% TUI Pension Scheme UK 31 March 2005 11.7% plus 16.4m per annum 5.3% Air 2000 Limited Retirement Benefits Scheme 1 November 2006 24.5% plus 1.4m per annum 9.7% Unijet Group Plc Final Salary Scheme 1 November 2006 24.7% plus 1.3m per annum 10.0% Where there is more than a single class of membership, contribution rates reflect weighted average values within the scheme.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 78 The principal unfunded schemes in Germany are shown below.
These were all subject to a full actuarial valuation within three months preceeding the balance sheet date: Scheme Name Status Versorgungsordnung Hapag-Lloyd Fluggesellschaft mbH Open to new members Versorgungsordnung TUI Deutschland GmbH Closed to new members Versorgungsordnung TUI Leisure Travel GmbH Closed to new members Valuations of the schemes are made by qualified actuaries using market-based valuations for the assets and the projected unit method for the liabilities.
The Group recognises all actuarial gains or losses in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
The assets of each scheme have been taken at market value and liabilities in each territory have been calculated using the following principal assumptions: 3 UK Germany Other per annum per annum per annum 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 % % % % % % Inflation 3.6 3.4 N A N A N A N A 2 1 1 1 1 Salary inflation 5.1 4.9 2.1-3.5 2.0-2.5 0.0-2.0 0.0-2.0 4 4 Discount Rate 6.9 5.6 6.75 5.5 4.1 4.9 1 In Germany the salary inflation assumption is a percentage increment relative to inflation.
2 5.1% is applicable across all UK Schemes with the exception of the Britannia Airways Limited Superannuation and Life Assurance Scheme which has assumed salary inflation of 4.6% plus 0.8% to reflect annual service increments.
3 Pension increases in the UK Schemes reflect the general inflation assumption, subject to minimum and maximum increase limits.
4 The discount rate for Other territories is a weighted average.
The mortality assumptions underlying the value of the accrued liabilities for each territory are set out in the tables below.
The mortality assumptions are based on relevant standard mortality tables in each country: 2008 2007 UK life expectancy Years Years Males Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 22.9 22.0 Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 24.1 23.1 Females Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 25.3 24.8 Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 26.3 25.9 2008 2007 Germany life expectancy Years Years Males Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 18.0 17.9 Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 20.7 20.6 Females Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 22.1 22.0 Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 24.7 24.6 2008 2007 Other life expectancy weighted average Years Years Males Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 18.8 17.5 Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 20.0 18.1 Females Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 21.7 21.3 Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 22.4 22.0 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 79 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The fair value of assets of the schemes in each territory at 30 September 2008 and 30 September 2007 are set out below.
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets in each territory are as follows: UK Germany Other Total 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m m m m m Balance at beginning of year period 891.4 781.5 103.2 95.7 994.6 877.2 Expected return on plan assets 62.5 41.1 5.7 3.7 68.2 44.8 Company contributions 67.7 31.1 2.5 1.4 70.2 32.5 Member contributions 5.8 4.9 1.2 0.7 7.0 5.6 Benefits paid 39.7 33.9 3.5 0.7 43.2 34.6 Settlements and curtailments 0.3 1.6 0.3 1.6 Experience losses 178.1 7.0 14.7 1.0 192.8 8.0 Amounts arising from acquisitions 73.7 1.7 75.4 Amounts arising from transfers in 4.4 4.4 Exchange difference 15.6 3.3 15.6 3.3 Balance at end of year period 809.6 891.4 114.1 103.2 923.7 994.6 Actual return on plan assets 115.6 34.1 9.0 2.7 124.6 36.8 Employer contributions in the next year are expected to be 87.7m in respect of the UK and 2.6m in respect of Other territory.
The amounts recognised in the income statement for the year ended 30 September 2008 and for the 9-month period ended 30 September 2007 for each territory are as follows: Similar UK Germany Other obligations Total 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m m m m m m m Current service cost 25.2 19.9 2.1 1.5 2.8 1.6 0.6 0.8 30.7 23.8 Gains on curtailments and settlements 0.1 0.4 0.5 Past service cost 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Interest on defined benefit pension plan obligation 63.9 42.2 2.9 1.9 4.5 2.8 0.5 0.2 71.8 47.1 Expected return on defined benefit pension plan 62.5 41.1 5.7 3.7 68.2 44.8 Total 26.5 21.0 5.1 3.3 1.6 0.7 0.7 1.0 33.9 26.0 These amounts are included within the following expense income categories in the consolidated income statement: Similar UK Germany Other obligations Total 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m m m m m m m Cost of sales 15.2 12.5 1.3 1.0 1.5 0.8 0.2 0.8 18.2 15.1 Administrative expenses 9.9 7.4 0.9 0.4 1.3 0.8 12.1 8.6 Financial expenses 63.9 42.2 2.9 1.9 4.5 2.8 0.5 0.2 71.8 47.1 Financial income 62.5 41.1 5.7 3.7 68.2 44.8 Total 26.5 21.0 5.1 3.3 1.6 0.7 0.7 1.0 33.9 26.0 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 81 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The amounts recognised directly in equity for the year ended 30 September 2008 and for the 9-month period ended 30 September 2007 for each territory are as follows: Similar UK Germany Other obligations Total 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m m m m m m m Cumulative losses gains brought forward 210.1 297.7 0.3 10.9 10.0 2.5 0.5 1.0 200.3 312.1 Gains recognised during the year period 5.8 87.6 7.8 11.1 11.1 12.2 1.9 0.5 4.4 111.4 Exchange adjustments 0.1 0.1 1.2 0.3 1.3 0.4 Cumulative losses gains carried forward 204.3 210.1 8.2 0.3 0.1 10.0 1.4 0.5 194.6 200.3 Trend analysis information in respect of the UK, Germany and Other territories is as follows: UK 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 UK Balance Sheet m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets 809.6 891.4 781.5 697.6 562.1 Present value of scheme liabilities 1,014.7 1,144.2 1,125.1 1,181.1 880.8 Deficit 205.1 252.8 343.6 483.5 318.7 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 UK Experience adjustments m m m m m Experience loss gain on plan assets 178.1 7.0 10.9 68.5 13.7 Experience gain loss on plan liabilities 184.2 94.6 107.6 239.8 17.3 Germany 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Germany Balance Sheet m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets Present value of scheme liabilities 50.2 47.9 52.8 48.5 44.5 Deficit 50.2 47.9 52.8 48.5 44.5 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Germany Experience adjustments m m m m m Experience gain loss on plan assets Experience gain loss on plan liabilities 7.8 11.1 0.6 2.2 6.6 Other 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Other Balance Sheet m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets 114.1 103.2 91.0 76.8 72.8 Present value of scheme liabilities 101.7 85.1 87.3 79.9 75.9 Surplus Deficit 12.4 18.1 3.7 3.1 3.1 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Other Experience adjustments m m m m m Experience loss gain on plan assets 14.7 1.0 0.2 3.4 2.1 Experience gain loss on plan liabilities 3.6 13.2 10.1 3.8 4.5 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 82 Total 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 All Territories Balance Sheet m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets 923.7 994.6 872.5 774.4 634.9 Present value of scheme liabilities 1,166.6 1,277.2 1,265.2 1,309.5 1,001.2 Deficit 242.9 282.6 392.7 535.1 366.3 The present value of scheme liabilities excludes liabilities relating to similar obligations of 11.2m 2007: 11.5m.
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 All Territories Experience adjustments m m m m m Experience loss gain on plan assets 192.8 8.0 10.7 71.9 15.8 Experience gain loss on plan liabilities 195.6 118.9 117.1 245.8 28.4 The experience adjustments exclude losses relating to similar obligations of 1.9m 2007: 0.5m.
The movement in the net deficit for pensions and similar obligations is as follows: Similar UK Germany Other obligations Total 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m m m m m m m Balance at beginning of period 252.8 343.6 48.0 53.4 18.1 4.0 10.2 9.6 292.9 402.6 Provisions made during the period 5.1 3.3 0.8 1.2 1.1 7.1 4.4 Provisions used during the period 41.6 10.0 1.5 0.8 1.8 0.8 1.0 0.3 45.9 11.9 Amounts arising from acquisitions and disposals 6.8 0.5 6.3 Amounts arising from transfers in and out 0.4 1.3 2.0 1.6 1.3 Actuarial Gain Loss recognised in equity 5.8 87.6 7.8 11.1 11.1 12.2 1.9 0.5 4.4 111.4 Exchange difference 6.1 1.9 2.4 0.6 1.3 0.3 5.0 1.6 Balance at end of period 205.4 252.8 50.3 48.0 12.4 18.1 9.8 10.2 253.1 292.9 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 83 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Reconciliation of defined benefit obligations and plan assets to values recognised in the Balance Sheet: Similar UK Germany Other Obligations Total 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m m m m m m m Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 1,013.5 1,142.6 100.1 83.4 1,113.6 1,226.0 Fair value of plan assets 809.6 891.4 114.1 103.2 923.7 994.6 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations 1.2 1.6 50.2 47.9 1.6 1.7 11.2 11.
5 64.2 62.7 Unrecognised past service benefit cost 0.1 0.1 1.4 1.3 1.3 1.2 Asset recognition limited under IAS 19 0.3 0.3 Recognised liability for defined benefit obligation 205.4 252.8 50.3 48.0 12.4 18.1 9.8 10.2 253.1 292.9 Analysed as: Employee benefit non-current assets 16.9 20.8 16.9 20.8 Employee benefit current liabilities 2.0 1.9 0.8 0.2 2.0 2.9 Employee benefit non-current liabilities 205.4 252.8 48.3 46.1 4.5 1.9 9.8 10.0 268.0 310.8 Total 205.4 252.8 50.3 48.0 12.4 18.1 9.8 10.2 253.1 292.9 Due to financial market volatility since the year end, the Directors have considered the potential impact on the net pension deficit as reported at 30 September 2008.
It is anticipated that in respect of the most material UK schemes, the market value of assets has fallen due to decreases in equity values.
However, it is estimated that this fall will be materially offset by lower pension liabilities due to an increase in the effective liability discount rate.
The effective liability discount rate increase is due to the combined effect of an increase in AA bond yields and a fall in expected future inflation indicated by the gilts market.
An indication of the sensitivity of the fair value of the defined pension deficit to the key financial and demographic assumptions is illustrated by the following estimates which are in respect of the Groups UK obligations.
An increase or decrease in the discount rate of 0.2 basis points would decrease or increase the UK pension deficit by 36m.
The addition of a 1% per annum mortality underpin to future improvements would increase the UK pension deficit by an estimated 15m.
If endorsed by the European Union, IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction will be applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 and will therefore be applicable for the Group in the year ending 30 September 2009.
IFRIC 14 may limit the value of net pension surpluses which are recognisable and it may require an additional pension liability to be recognised.
The Group is currently assessing the impact that this standard would have on the presentation of the consolidated balance sheet.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 84 D Share award and option schemes The Company operates three principal share award schemes which are designed to link remuneration to the future performance of the Group.
The schemes are the Performance Share Plan PSP, the Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme DABS and the Value Creation Synergy Plan VCSP.
All three schemes are described on pages 49 to 59, along with the relevant vesting criteria.
At 30 September 2008 the awards granted and outstanding in respect of ordinary shares, were as follows: Share award scheme Number of shares Date first exercisable Performance Share Plan 881,283 14 December 2008 632,961 14 December 2008 79,292 19 June 2009 439,255 13 February 2010 1,236,180 13 February 2010 1,263,821 13 February 2010 1,951,561 13 September 2010 657,114 19 December 2010 2,958,977 19 December 2010 136,821 19 May 2011 Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme 597,782 14 December 2008 846,090 13 February 2010 3,574,672 19 December 2010 Value Creation Synergy Plan N A Total 15,255,809 The number of share awards options at the beginning and end of the year period is as follows: Number of Number of awards options awards options 30 September 2008 30 September 2007 Outstanding at beginning of the year period 12,863,958 Forfeited during the year period 699,465 Exercised during the year period 4,368,347 Rolled over from First Choice Holidays PLC 8,269,225 Granted during the year period 7,459,663 4,594,733 Outstanding at the end of the year period 15,255,809 12,863,958 At the end of the year ended 30 September 2008, no awards options were immediately exercisable 2007: 4,142,777.
On 3 September 2007, First Choice Holidays PLC was acquired by TUI Travel PLC.
The terms of the First Choice Holidays PLC schemes resulted in many awards options vesting and becoming immediately exercisable on the change of control.
Certain share awards in First Choice Holidays PLCs Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme and the First Choice Holidays PLCs Performance Share Plan were rolled forward to become awards in respect of shares in TUI Travel PLC.
The income statement charge for these awards is based on their fair value as at 3 September 2007 charged over the remaining vesting period.
No material awards have been made to date under the Groups HMRC-approved Share Incentive Plan which is an all-employee share plan.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 85 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The fair value of services received in return for share awards granted during the year is measured by reference to the fair value of the share awards granted.
The fair value at the date of grant of shares awarded during the year has been estimated using a binomial methodology for all schemes except where there is a market-based performance condition attached to vesting, in which case a Monte Carlo simulation was used.
The principal assumptions required by these methodologies were: 2008 2007 2006 Information relating to fair values of share options and awards granted Fair value at measurement date 1.05-2.42 1.09-2.71 1.35-2.56 Share price 2.51-2.70 2.60-2.86 2.17-2.29 Exercise price Expected volatility 30.4%-34.8% 25.7%-28.4% 23.4%-27.8% Award option life 3 years 3 years 3 years Expected dividends 3.6% 3.8% 4.0% Risk free interest rate 4.52%-4.75% 5.05%-5.35% 4.29%-4.32% Participants are not entitled to dividends prior to vesting.
Expected volatility is based on historic volatility adjusted for changes to future volatility indicated by publicly available information.
Share options awards were granted under a service condition.
Employee expenses for the year Employee expenses for the current year and prior period relating to share-based schemes are: 9-month Year ended period ended 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m Share options granted in 2006 1.3 0.1 Share awards granted in 2007 6.1 0.2 Share awards granted in 2008 6.1 Expense arising for share appreciation rights 0.7 4.6 Total 14.2 4.9 Included in the charge for equity awards made in 2008 is 2.9m relating to the VCSP.
The shares this charge corresponds to will be awarded after the date of these accounts.
Of the 14.2m total employee expenses relating to share-based schemes incurred in the year ended 30 September 2008 8.7m 9-month period ended 30 September 2007: nil is included within separately disclosed items Note 3 as relating to specific remuneration incurred for post merger integration.
The future estimated expense for share award schemes outstanding at 30 September is: 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m To be incurred within one year 13.0 8.4 To be incurred after more than one year 10.8 8.5 Total 23.8 16.9 E Remuneration of Directors 9-month Year ended period ended 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m Emoluments 11.8 0.6 Pensions and other retirement benefits 1.2 0.1 Total 13.0 0.7 In the comparative period, the Directors were only directors of TUI Travel PLC for one month post business combination : the amounts disclosed in this note for the 9-month period therefore represent their remuneration for that 1 month.
Further information is provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 59.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 86 6.
Income, expenses and auditors remuneration 9-month Year ended period ended 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m Included in the income statement for the year period are the following charges credits Operating lease income, aircraft 5.5 6.3 Operating lease rentals, land and buildings 166.9 60.1 Operating lease rentals, aircraft and other equipment 326.9 181.0 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 206.4 101.9 Amortisation of intangible assets 124.5 32.9 Charge for share-based payments 14.2 4.9 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 71.4 12.3 Loss on foreign currency retranslation 25.1 3.4 Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles 114.1 22.9 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 31.7 Operating lease rentals, land and buildings, includes 18.8m of costs included in separately disclosed items Note 3 as provisions for onerous leases, primarily related to the integration of the UK Thomson First Choice retail estate and other leasehold obligations.
In addition to the operating lease rentals disclosed above, charges of 77.0m 9-month period ended 30 September 2007: 50.0m were incurred in respect of hotel accommodation rentals which are disclosed as operating leases under IFRIC 4: Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease.
9-month Year ended period ended 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m Auditors remuneration Auditors remuneration for these financial statements and other Group subsidiary financial statements pursuant to legislation 2.4 1.4 Other services pursuant to legislation including regulatory reporting 0.6 0.1 Other services including corporate finance transactions 0.5 1.8 Auditors remuneration refers to fees paid to the Groups auditors, KPMG Audit Plc and its associates and does not include fees paid to other auditors who audit subsidiaries of the Group.
Auditors remuneration in the comparative period relates solely to subsidiary financial statements.
Other services including corporate finance transactions in the 9-month period ended 30 September 2007 includes 1.3m relating to the Companys listing and share issue.
These fees are included in the share issue costs debited to equity in the prior period Note 24.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 87 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Taxation The tax credit charge can be summarised as follows: 9-month Year ended period ended 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m i Analysis of credit charge in the year period Current tax charge: UK corporation tax on profits of the year period 9.7 Non-UK tax on profits of the year period 54.1 29.7 Adjustments in respect of previous periods 0.3 5.6 54.4 45.0 Deferred tax credit charge: Origination and reversal of timing differences: Current year period UK 42.8 0.8 Current year period non-UK 11.9 31.6 Adjustments in respect of previous periods 0.2 3.7 54.5 34.5 Total income tax credit charge in income statement 0.1 79.5 ii Reconciliation of effective tax rate The total tax credit charge for the year is lower 9-month period ended 30 September 2007: higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 29% 9-month period ended 30 September 2007: 30%.
The differences are explained below: Year ended 9-month period ended 30 September 30 September 2008 2008 2007 2007 m % m % Loss profit before tax reported in the income statement 266.6 152.5 Less share of profit in joint ventures and associates 12.0 6.9 278.6 145.6 Income tax on loss profit before tax excluding share of profit of joint ventures and associates at the standard rate of UK tax of 29% 9-month period ended 30 September 2007: 30% 80.8 29.0% 43.7 30.0% Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 39.0 14.0 % 10.3 7.1% Utilisation of tax losses 0.8 0.5 % Non-utilisation of tax losses 44.3 15.9 % 1.3 0.9% Higher tax rates on overseas earnings 0.2 0.1% 18.8 12.9% Lower tax rates on overseas earnings 2.9 1.0% 3.1 2.1 % Adjustments to taxation in respect of previous periods 0.5 0.2 % 9.3 6.4% Total income tax credit charge in income statement 0.1 0.0% 79.5 54.6% In the year ended 30 September 2008 expenses not deductible for tax purposes included the tax effect at 29% of the 111.7m goodwill impairment charge in respect of TUIfly Note 9.
Also in the current year, non-utilisation of tax losses principally arose from restructuring and integration costs.
The underlying effective rate of taxation for the year ended 30 September 2008 is calculated based on underlying profit before tax excluding separately disclosed items, amortisation of IFRS 3 business combination intangibles, goodwill impairment charges and financing expenses on income arising on the revaluation of minority put options liabilities and is calculated as 28%.
The actual tax rate of 0% differs from the underlying effective tax rate due to actual tax reflecting the non-deductibility for tax purposes of goodwill impairment and certain separately disclosed items.
This actual tax rate also reflects non-utilisation of tax losses arising on certain separately disclosed items due to uncertainty as to the timing of their utilisation.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 88 iii Deferred tax recognised directly in equity The following taxation has been recognised directly in equity within the statement of recognised income and expense: 9-month Year ended period ended 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m Property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.2 Receivables and other assets 0.3 Cash flow hedges 58.4 2.4 Equity-settled transactions 1.2 Defined benefit pension plans 3.0 28.1 Total 62.6 30.7 8.
Dividends The following dividends relating to ordinary shares have been deducted from equity in the year period: 9-month Year ended period ended 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m Initial interim dividend paid for 2007 of 5.9p per share 2007: interim 2.5p per share 65.4 13.2 The interim dividend in respect of the 6-month period to 31 March 2008 of 2.8p was paid on the 1 October 2008 and this dividend of 30.9m will be recognised as a deduction from equity in the year ending 30 September 2009.
Subsequent to the balance sheet date, the Directors have proposed a final dividend of 6.9p per share 2007: initial interim dividend of 5.9p per share payable on 6 April 2009 to the holders of relevant shares on the register at 13 March 2009.
The final proposed dividend amounts to 76.3m and will, after approval by shareholders, be recognised in the consolidated financial statements for the year ending 30 September 2009.
The final ordinary dividend of 6.9p per share, together with the interim dividend of 2.8p per share, makes a total dividend of 9.7p per share relating to the year ended 30 September 2008.
The dividend for the 9-month period ended 30 September 2007 comprises an interim dividend of 2.5p per share, which taken together with the dividend paid prior to the business combination would result in a total dividend for the year ended September 2007 of 8.4p per share.
A dividend reinvestment plan is in operation.
Those shareholders who have not elected to participate in this plan, and who would like to participate with respect to the 2008 final dividend, may do so by contacting Equiniti direct on 0871 384 2030.
The last day for election for the final proposed dividend is 23 March 2009 and any requests should be made in good time ahead of that date.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 89 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9.
The goodwill impairment losses incurred in 2008 relate to TUIfly, the Groups airline in Germany and the impairment losses incurred in 2007 relate primarily to the write down to fair value less costs to sell of the Groups Irish retail business, Budget Travel Limited.
This was presented as a disposal group held for sale at 30 September 2007 and subsequently sold in October 2007.
Both impairment charges are disclosed within administrative expenses and shown separately on the face of the income statement.
Amortisation of business combination intangibles totalling 86.9m 9-month period ended 30 September 2007: 10.0m shown on the face of the income statement relates primarily to the amortisation of brands, the order book shown within other, above and customer relationships.
The remaining useful economic lives of these assets is up to 19 years.
Amortisation of business combination intangibles, and depreciation combined with amortisation of other intangible assets is disclosed by segment in Note 2.
Impairment of intangible assets by segment is also disclosed in Note 2.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 90 The aggregate carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to each principal cash generating unit CGU are as follows: 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 CGU Sector m m UK and Ireland Mainstream Northern Region 1,500.9 1,494.3 Incoming agencies Hotelbeds Online Destination Services 435.6 381.2 Germany integrated tour operations and TUIfly Mainstream Central Europe Region 352.0 416.3 Nordics Mainstream Northern Region 242.5 240.9 LateRooms Online Destination Services 111.5 111.1 Marmara Mainstream Western Europe 103.2 90.5 Nouvelles Frontires Mainstream Western Europe 97.2 81.8 Multiple CGUs All sectors 796.6 647.1 Total goodwill 3,639.5 3,463.2 Once every year or more frequently if events or a change in the economic environment indicate a risk of impairment, the Group assesses the recoverable amount of goodwill allocated to its CGUs as required by IAS 36: Impairment of assets.
The recoverable value of goodwill for all CGUs has been determined based on value in use.
The multiple CGUs not separately listed above do not individually represent more than 3% of total Group goodwill.
All CGUs have been individually tested for impairment.
IAS 36 requires that impairment tests are carried out on CGUs, following the level at which the Groups management measures returns on operations.
The calculation of recoverable amount uses the following assumptions: Cash flow projections based on the Groups latest approved five-year business plan.
Cash flows beyond the plan period are extrapolated using an inflationary only growth rate of 1%.
This growth rate is lower than the forecast medium-term GDP growth rates of the key geographic markets in which the Group operates at the time the projections are prepared.
Cash flows are discounted using the Groups weighted average cost of capital, adjusted as appropriate for business specific factors of sector risk, business size and geographic risk.
The Groups weighted average cost of capital has been based on the range of historical values of the Groups weighted average cost of capital to avoid distortion due to short-term volatility in the UK stock market: the Group consider this approach is reasonable since the cash flow projections have been sensitised to take account of the estimated impact of the global downturn on consumer demand.
Since determination of an appropriate Group weighted average cost of capital was judgemental, sensitivities also addressed how increases in the base Group weighted average cost of capital might impact the results of the impairment tests.
Central group overheads are borne in full by CGUs and are allocated pro rata to the CGUs underlying operating profit.
Where draft 2009 budgets indicate lower underlying operating profit than the five-year business plan for any CGU, cash flow projections were re-run based on the lower underlying operating profit information to confirm that initial findings remained valid.
The calculation of recoverable amount is sensitive to forecast future earnings and, particularly, the discount rates used: A 20 percent decrease in future planned earnings for both the year ending 30 September 2009 and the year ending 30 September 2010 would still result in significant headroom positions for all the principal CGUs detailed in the table above.
For the principal CGUs detailed in the table above, an increase of 1 1.5 percentage points in the discount rates used would not change the conclusion that the carrying value of goodwill is supported by its recoverable amount.
The sensitivities disclosed immediately above do not take account of any mitigating action that management would take should earnings decrease.
Other key assumptions are in respect of the short and medium-term post-acquisition earnings of acquired operations within the Activity, Online Destination Services and Specialist Sectors.
The forecast earnings of these newly acquired businesses are inherently more judgemental over these timeframes.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 91 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The pre-tax discount rates used for each CGU or group of similar CGUs are as follows: Sector Cash generating units CGUs Pre-tax discount rate used Mainstream UK and Ireland 8.5% Germany 9.5% Nordics 10.5% Marmara 9.5% Nouvelles Frontires 9.5% Other CGUs 10.5% Specialist & Emerging Markets European Specialist businesses 11% American Specialist businesses 11% Activity Marine businesses 11.5%-12.5% Sport, Adventure, Student and Ski businesses 13% Online Destination Services Incoming agencies Hotelbeds 10.75% LateRooms 11.5% Other CGUs 11.5% - 12.5% multiple individual CGUs Based on the calculations undertaken, the Directors consider that the recoverable amount of goodwill in each CGU exceeds its carrying value.
Impairment charges Impairment charges have arisen as a result of the Groups restructuring post business combination.
TUIfly A 111.7m impairment charge in respect of goodwill in Germany has been recorded in the year, relating to TUIfly, the Groups airline in the German source market, part of the Central European Mainstream Sector.
The goodwill impairment arose as a result of the reclassification of TUIfly as a disposal group held for sale during the current financial year, as at 30 June 2008.
This reclassification was undertaken based on the plan to dispose of the airline into a new joint venture undertaking which would continue to provide flying capacity to the German source market tour operator.
The goodwill impairment charge was calculated based on the fair value less costs to sell of TUIfly under the terms of the planned joint venture arrangement, which was on a commercial arms length basis.
As at 30 September 2008, TUIfly has since been declassified as a disposal group held for sale and reclassified within the Groups ongoing non-current and current assets and liabilities.
This is on the basis that a disposal transaction is no longer considered sufficiently probable.
The impairment charge recorded during the year has not been reversed at 30 September 2008, based on managements ongoing strategic review of TUIfly which may result in future restructuring and associated costs.
At the year end, an assessment of the value in use of the Groups German business has also been undertaken, including TUIfly.
The German business has been assessed as one CGU due to the current integration and shared source market of the German tour operator and TUIfly airline.
This calculation has been undertaken using the methodology and assumptions disclosed above and supports the carrying value of goodwill carried forward at 30 September 2008.
Budget Travel, Ireland In the 9-month period ended 30 September 2007, an impairment charge of 22.9m was recorded against the carrying value of goodwill in the Groups Irish retail business, Budget Travel Limited, following the reclassification of this business as a disposal group held for sale.
The impairment charge was calculated based on the fair value of the business, less costs to sell.
Subsequent to 30 September 2007, in October 2007 the business was disposed for its book value.
Budget Travel Limited formed part of the Northern Europe Mainstream sector.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 92 10.
These impairments have been calculated following the reclassification of the related assets as held for sale Note 18.
The disposal of owned aircraft forms part of the integration of the aircraft fleet post business combination and the sale and leaseback transaction described below.
The impairment charges have been calculated based on the fair value of the assets less costs to sell.
In respect of aircraft, external market values have been used in assessing fair values.
Other assets have been impaired based on their estimated net disposal proceeds.
The impairment charge is disclosed within cost of sales and as a separately disclosed item Note 3.
Segmental analysis of the impairment charge is presented in Note 2.
Sale and leaseback transactions During the year ended 30 September 2008, the Group sold and leased back 24 aircraft on operating leases as part of its aircraft fleet strategy.
Of these aircraft, 20 were previously owned and held within Plant, Property and Equipment and the sale was accounted for as a disposal.
The remaining 4 aircraft were purchased, sold and leased back within the year.
The loss on sale and leasebacks was 101.7m including the recognition of opening maintenance provision 9-month period ended 30 September 2007: profit of 14.7m which is included within cost of sales and also within separately disclosed items Note 3.
Future commitments in respect of aircraft fleet operating leases are disclosed in Note 27.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 93 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Changes in estimates During the year ended 30 September 2008, the Group reviewed the residual value of its remaining owned aircraft and the estimated useful economic lives of these aircraft.
As a result the expected residual values of certain assets have been revised downwards.
The effect of these changes on depreciation expense, recognised in cost of sales, in the year and in future years is an increase in the annual charge of 5.2m.
Other disclosures Other property, plant and equipment with a combined net book value as at 30 September 2008 of 143.1m 2007: 131.7m includes 95.3m 2007: 106.2m of fixtures and fittings and 26.5m 2007: 17.5m of motor vehicles.
Land and buildings comprise freehold and short leasehold properties with net book values of 98.1m 2007: 75.8m and 60.6m 2007: 61.2m respectively.
The net book value of assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts at 30 September 2008 was 193.2m 2007: 198.5m.
The net book value of property, plant and equipment with restrictions on title, being pledged as security for bank loans, amounted to 39.0m 2007: 46.3m.
Investment in joint ventures, associates and other investments The Groups equity investment in its joint ventures and associates is recorded in the financial statements as follows: Share of net Share of net Total assets of assets of share of joint ventures associates net assets m m m Cost At 1 October 2007 64.2 11.8 76.0 Share of profits losses before tax for the year 15.0 0.2 14.8 Share of tax charge 2.8 2.8 Increase in investment 9.5 9.5 Dividends paid 7.6 1.8 9.4 Exchange adjustments 6.4 1.7 8.1 At 30 September 2008 84.7 11.5 96.2 Goodwill At 1 October 2007 12.6 3.9 16.5 Exchange adjustments 1.1 0.6 1.7 At 30 September 2008 13.7 4.5 18.2 Net book value At 1 October 2007 76.8 15.7 92.5 At 30 September 2008 98.4 16.0 114.4 The Groups share of joint venture and associate profit after tax was 12.0m 9-month period ended 30 September 2007: 6.9m.
The increase in investment in share of net assets of joint ventures of 9.5m arose from the joint venture parties injecting new capital into Atlantica Hellas SA with no change to the proportion of the entity held by any party.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 94 The principal joint ventures and associates and the proportion held are shown below: Country of registration Name of company Proportion held Nature of business incorporation Joint ventures Travco Group Holding SAE 50.0% Incoming agency Egypt Sunshine Cruises Limited 50.0% Cruise operator England and Wales Le Passage to India Tours and Travel Pvt Ltd 50.0% Incoming agency India Atlantica Hellas SA 50.0% Hotel operator Greece Atlantica Hotels and Resorts Ltd 50.0% Hotel operator Cyprus Associates Turismo Asia Company Limited 49.0% Incoming agency Thailand As disclosed in Note 34, subsequent to 30 September 2008, the Group acquired the remaining 50% stake in Sunshine Cruises Limited for consideration of 29.4m on 4 October 2008 and will consolidate the company from this date.
A summary of the results for the year ended 30 September 2008 and of the assets and liabilities at this date of the Groups joint ventures and associates is shown below: Joint ventures Associates Total 100% values m m m Revenue 488.0 340.4 828.4 Operating profit 32.3 3.1 35.4 Net interest payable receivable 2.3 0.2 2.1 Profit before taxation 30.0 3.3 33.3 Taxation 5.6 2.8 8.4 Profit after taxation for the year 24.4 0.5 24.9 Non-current assets 183.4 12.1 195.5 Current assets 168.4 41.3 209.7 Non-current liabilities 151.9 20.9 172.8 Current liabilities 30.5 16.4 46.9 Net assets 169.4 16.1 185.5 Other investments Other investments comprise trade investments and non-consolidated entities.
Trade investments represent the Groups 14.3% shareholding in The Airline Group Limited, which in turn has a 42% shareholding in National Air Traffic Services Limited, and a 10% holding in the Atlantica Leisure Group.
No material change in the fair value of these investments has been recorded in the year.
Non-consolidated entities are recorded at cost and reflect the Groups net investment held in 100 subsidiaries which, due to the immaterial size of their revenues, result and financial position, have not been consolidated.
Balances between these entities and consolidated subsidiaries have not been eliminated.
NonTrade consolidated investments entities Total m m m At 1 October 2007 22.9 30.1 53.0 Foreign exchange movements 2.8 2.8 At 30 September 2008 22.9 32.9 55.8 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 95 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Investments Acquisitions a Acquisitions in the year ended 30 September 2008 Acquisitions were made in the year for a total of 108.6m, including 1.4m of acquisition expenses.
These acquisitions gave rise to provisional goodwill of 81.5m.
The acquired businesses and their acquisition dates were: Business Description Date Country Mainstream Sector Western Europe Socit Polynsienne Promotion Hotelire SPPH Hotel operator July 2008 French Polynesia Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector National Events Inc. Tour operator November 2007 USA Travelmood Limited Long-haul travel June 2008 UK Activity Sector CHS Tour Services Limited Tour operator December 2007 UK Australian Pinnacle Tours Pty Limited Tour operator December 2007 Australia Active Safari Pty Limited Planet Perth Tour operator January 2008 Australia Gullivers Sport Travel Limited Tour operator February 2008 UK Your Sporting Challenge Limited Tour operator March 2008 UK Real Travel Limited Tour operator April 2008 UK World Challenge Holdings Limited Tour operator April 2008 UK Sportsworld Holdings Limited Tour operator May 2008 UK FanFirm Pty Limited Tour operator August 2008 Australia Events International Limited Tour operator September 2008 UK Online Destination Services Sector Cruiselink II Limited Cruise services November 2007 USA Destination Florida New England, Inc. Cruise services January 2008 USA Hotels London Limited Online hotel accommodation September 2008 UK The Group acquired 100% of the voting equity instruments in respect of each acquisition completed during the year with the exception of SPPH, where the Group previously held 50% and acquired all the remaining shares in the year.
The relative size of the acquisitions made is set out in the table below: Consideration Number of acquisitions Total Consideration Total Goodwill m Number m m 0 5 10 23.3 18.3 10 15 4 49.9 29.4 15 2 35.4 33.8 Total 16 108.6 81.5 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 96 The total net assets liabilities acquired are set out below: Fair value of Book value Accounting net assets prior to policy Fair value liabilities acquisition adjustments adjustments acquired Net assets liabilities acquired Note m m m m Intangible fixed assets 1 5.4 57.0 62.4 Tangible fixed assets 2 10.5 0.6 9.9 Current assets excluding cash 3 32.7 1.0 0.7 31.0 Cash 23.0 23.0 Current liabilities excluding debt 4 53.6 11.2 0.8 65.6 Deferred tax provision 5 17.8 17.8 Other non-current liabilities excluding debt 0.2 0.2 Interest-bearing liabilities 15.6 15.6 Total 2.2 12.2 37.1 27.1 Total consideration 108.6 Net assets acquired as above 27.1 Provisional goodwill arising 81.5 All acquisitions have been accounted for using the purchase method, as required by IFRS 3.
It should be noted that certain fair value adjustments and the value of contingent consideration have necessarily been prepared on a provisional basis due to the recent timing of certain acquisitions and the periods over which contingent consideration may become payable.
Experience may result in revisions to fair values in the subsequent accounting period.
Notes: Accounting policy and fair value adjustments arise from: 1.
Elimination of goodwill existing in balance sheets at acquisition and inclusion of the fair value of IFRS 3 business combination intangible assets principally comprising brands and customer relationships Note 9.
Revaluation of property plant and equipment.
Accounting policy alignment for revenue recognition: recognition of provisions against receivables.
Accounting policy alignment for revenue recognition in respect of World Challenge Holdings Limiteds trading subsidiaries, Gullivers Sport Travel Limited and Sportsworld Group Limited: recognition of provisions for other liabilities.
Recognition of deferred taxation liabilities relating to other adjustments, including intangible assets recognised.
The consideration payable is made up of: m Cash 74.3 Deferred consideration 5.9 Contingent consideration 24.3 Loan notes issued 2.7 107.2 Expenses 1.4 Total consideration 108.6 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 97 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued b Cash flows arising in respect of acquisitions Total cash flows relating to acquisitions in the year, including amounts paid in respect of deferred and contingent consideration arising on prior period acquisitions are as follows: 2008 2008 Maximum Paid m m Acquisitions in the year 74.3 74.3 Deferred and contingent consideration arising and loan notes issued 53.6 0.6 127.9 74.9 Acquisition expenses paid in the year 1.4 1.4 Total consideration 129.3 76.3 Cash acquired with acquisitions 23.0 Cash paid relating to purchase of minority interest 19.8 Cash paid relating to prior period acquisitions and redemption of acquisition loan notes 37.0 Net cash outflow in the year relating to acquisitions 110.1 Maximum consideration payable represents the maximum consideration that the Group would be obliged to pay if all contingent consideration were to become payable.
Movements in deferred and contingent consideration in the year were as follows: Deferred Contingent Loan consideration consideration notes Total m m m m At 1 October 2007 27.3 21.3 28.3 76.9 Recognised in the year relating to current year acquisitions 5.9 24.3 2.7 32.9 Adjustments to amounts recognised in respect of prior period acquisitions 2.6 0.5 2.1 Cash paid 10.2 5.9 21.5 37.6 Exchange differences 3.0 1.0 1.1 5.1 At 30 September 2008 28.6 40.2 8.5 77.3 Further details of deferred and contingent consideration payable in less than one year and after more than one year is given in Notes 20 and 22 respectively.
The contingent consideration payable arising in the year is in respect of the acquisitions listed below.
It is dependent on the results of the businesses over the following periods or the balance of working capital at the acquisition date, and the Directors believe the amounts provided reflect the most likely outcome in each case: Basis of Period for calculation calculation Maximum of contingent of contingent contingent Acquisition consideration consideration consideration National Events Inc. Earnings Up to 31 Dec 2010 USD 0.8m Cruiselink II Limited Earnings Up to 31 Dec 2010 USD 2.5m Gullivers Sport Travel Limited Earnings Up to 30 Sep 2012 GBP 4.0m Real Travel Limited Earnings Up to 31 Dec 2009 GBP 12.0m World Challenge Holdings Limited Earnings Up to 30 Sep 2011 GBP 5.3m Sportsworld Holdings Limited Earnings Up to 30 Sep 2012 GBP 13.5m FanFirm Pty Limited Earnings Up to 31 Oct 2011 AUD 18.0m Total contingent consideration recognised in these accounts GBP 24.3m TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 98 c Acquisitions in the 9-month period ended 30 September 2007 i First Choice Holidays PLC On 3 September 2007, the TUI Travel PLC Group was formed through a business combination of the tourism division of TUI AG with First Choice Holidays PLC.
For accounting purposes, the tourism division of TUI AG was identified as the acquirer of TUI Travel PLC and First Choice Holidays PLC.
The determination of the assets and liabilities acquired was finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date in accordance with IFRS 3.
The table below shows the finalised acquisition values.
Residual goodwill will not be deductible for taxation: Fair value of Book value Accounting net assets prior to policy Fair value liabilities acquisition adjustments adjustments acquired Note m m m m Intangible fixed assets 1 806.9 152.8 654.1 Tangible fixed assets 2 268.0 0.6 267.4 Investments 35.2 35.2 Current assets excluding cash 3 681.5 4.3 3.7 673.5 Cash 322.4 322.4 Trade and other payables 4 1,226.8 11.5 1,215.3 Provisions 5 53.1 19.9 73.0 Deferred tax provision 6 23.1 152.8 175.9 Interest-bearing liabilities 559.9 559.9 Total 251.1 4.3 318.3 71.5 Total consideration 1,556.3 Increase in fair value of pre-acquisition share-based payment 3.4 Net liabilities acquired Total net liabilities 71.5 Minority interest share of assets 0.9 Goodwill arising 1,632.1 The consideration for First Choice Holidays PLC was valued as the current market value of the shares acquired on the date of purchase, as listed on the London Stock Exchange, together with acquisition costs of 1.8m.
Accounting policy and fair value adjustments arise from: 1.
Recognition of acquisition-related intangible assets, including brands, customer relationships, order backlogs and other assets.
Further information is set out in Note 9.
Revision to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment.
Adjustment to deferred income for agent commissions which are recognised as intra-group transactions post acquisition on departure and lease cost recognition alignment: fair value provision against receivables.
Fair value adjustment in respect of deferred income.
Fair value adjustment in respect of provisions for contingent and other liabilities.
Deferred taxation relating to the above items.
Provisional goodwill recognised at 30 September 2007 in respect of First Choice was 1,590.9m.
This value was indicative due to the timing of the acquisition on 3 September 2007 and has been finalised during the year ended 30 September 2008.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 99 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued ii Other acquisitions in the comparative period In addition to the acquisition of First Choice Holidays PLC, the Group also acquired 7 subsidiaries during the comparative period.
Total consideration paid was 63.0m and residual goodwill in respect of these acquisitions was 48.3m.
d Residual goodwill A consistent process is undertaken at each acquisition to identify the fair value of separable assets and liabilities acquired, including the fair value of intangible assets, being brands, order books, licences, customer relationships and other intangible assets.
The residual goodwill on acquisition represents the value of assets and earnings that do not form separable assets under IFRS 3 but nevertheless are expected to contribute to the future results of the Group.
Residual goodwill in respect of current year acquisitions represents principally: Market knowledge of particular geographic areas.
Knowledge of particular market segments, for example sports travel and volunteer educational experiences.
Involvement of existing management and employees and transfer of their knowledge of the operation of the business model.
Int egration synergies particularly within the Activity Sector.
The ability t o sell acquired product through existing channels and existing product through acquired channels, in Activity, ODS and Specialist.
In respect of the acquisition of First Choice, residual goodwill of 1,632.1m arose.
Management consider that this amount principally represents: The present value of ongoing integration synergies specific to the acquirer.
The latest forecast of ongoing post integration synergies for the combined group is 175m per annum being the exit rate forecast from the end of the third year post business combination.
Further details are set out on pages 28 to 29 of the Business and Financial Review.
These are principally Mainstream Sector cost synergies, with a significant proportion arising in the UK airline and tour operations support functions.
The engagement of former First Choice management in the combined TUI Travel Group, including Directors and senior management.
The ability to sell acquired First Choice specialist product through TUI Travels controlled distribution network in new markets for example, selling TUI Marine product in Germany.
e Income statement If the businesses that were acquired at various times during the year ended 30 September 2008 had been part of the Group since 1 October 2007, Group revenue and loss after tax would have been increased by 93.2m and 12.6m respectively including amortisation of business combination intangibles of 6.2m net of tax.
The acquired businesses contributed revenues of 92.2m and profit after tax including amortisation of business combination intangibles of 1.8m.
f Acquisitions post balance sheet date Subsequent to 30 September 2008, the Group acquired the remaining 50% stake in Sunshine Cruises Limited for consideration of 29.4m on 4 October 2008 and will consolidate the company from this date.
A further four smaller acquisitions were completed in October and November 2008 Travel Adventures Inc, Teamlink Travel Ltd, Edwin Doran Travel Ltd and Master Yachting GmbH for total consideration of 13.7m.
The accounting under IFRS 3 for these recent acquisitions has not yet been finalised.
Non-current trade and other receivables 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m Loans and advances to related parties 1.6 9.3 Other receivables 98.5 114.5 Prepayments 110.2 108.1 Total 210.3 231.9 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 100 14.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities Net Net 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 Intangible assets 3.2 4.5 190.3 194.7 187.1 190.2 Finance lease transactions 11.8 6.9 11.8 6.9 Property, plant and equipment 10.9 2.7 13.7 34.8 2.8 32.1 Receivables and other assets 4.0 0.5 7.4 2.7 3.4 2.2 Financial instruments and foreign exchange 27.1 47.6 50.2 5.8 23.1 41.8 Inventories 6.1 5.4 6.1 5.4 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 5.7 4.0 7.2 6.6 1.5 2.6 Employee benefits 62.4 63.5 4.3 4.5 58.1 59.0 Other short-term temporary differences 57.8 61.7 9.3 4.2 48.5 57.5 Tax value of losses carried forward 63.8 40.5 63.8 40.5 Total 252.8 237.3 282.4 253.3 29.6 16.0 Set off of deferred tax within the same jurisdiction 47.6 69.5 47.6 69.5 Net tax liabilities 205.2 167.8 234.8 183.8 29.6 16.0 Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items reported at the applicable tax rate : 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m Capital losses 2.5 2.7 Other losses 142.4 97.4 Total losses 144.9 100.1 These assets have not been recognised principally because the Directors are not certain of the timing of any benefits that might arise in the future.
These losses are not subject to time expiry and are available for utilisation against profits arising in future periods in the territories in which they have arisen.
There are no other unprovided deferred tax liabilities nor unrecognised deferred tax assets.
Movements in temporary differences during the current year: Balance at Recognised Recognised Foreign Balance at 1 October Arising on charged in charged in exchange 30 September 2007 acquisition income equity retranslation 2008 m m m m m m Intangible assets 190.2 17.8 21.8 0.9 187.1 Finance lease transactions 6.9 3.4 1.5 11.8 Property, plant and equipment 32.1 32.0 0.3 2.4 2.8 Receivables and other assets 2.2 1.1 0.3 0.4 3.4 Financial instruments and foreign exchange 41.8 4.3 58.4 2.2 23.1 Inventories 5.4 0.1 0.8 6.1 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 2.6 1.4 0.3 1.5 Employee benefits 59.0 3.6 4.2 6.9 58.1 Other short-term temporary differences 57.5 11.9 2.9 48.5 Tax value of losses carried forward 40.5 16.9 6.4 63.8 Total 16.0 17.8 54.5 62.6 12.3 29.6 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 101 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Movements in temporary differences during the prior period are analysed as follows: Balance at Recognised Recognised Foreign Balance at 1 January Arising on charged in charged in exchange 30 September 2007 acquisition Income equity retranslation 2007 m m m m m m Intangible assets 4.1 195.2 0.7 0.2 190.2 Finance lease transactions 7.3 0.6 0.2 6.9 Property, plant and equipment 29.1 8.0 6.3 0.2 1.1 32.1 Receivables and other assets 2.7 4.9 2.2 Financial instruments and foreign exchange 35.8 11.9 4.7 2.4 1.2 41.8 Inventories 3.4 1.9 0.1 5.4 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1.5 1.0 0.1 2.6 Employee benefits 89.5 6.3 11.5 28.1 2.8 59.0 Other short-term temporary differences 35.4 34.0 13.5 1.6 57.5 Tax value of losses carried forward 45.2 1.3 7.2 1.2 40.5 Total 192.8 149.7 34.5 30.7 6.1 16.0 Intangible asset temporary differences arise in respect of assets recognised on acquisition, principally in respect of the acquisition of First Choice.
Property, plant and equipment temporary differences principally relate to tax depreciation in the UK, France and Germany.
Employee benefits temporary differences arise in respect of defined benefit pension scheme liabilities and future deductions available on the vesting of employee awards.
Financial instruments and foreign exchange temporary differences arise in respect of financial instruments accounted for under IAS 39 and principally reflect the fair value at 30 September 2008 of cash flow hedging derivatives that will be settled against future transactions.
Other short-term temporary differences relate to operating expenses and related accruals and provisions for which a tax deduction has not yet been recognised.
Inventories 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m Marine inventories 16.3 12.8 Airline spares and operating equipment 19.9 15.3 Other operating inventories 15.0 11.6 Total 51.2 39.7 No inventory amounts are expected to be recovered after more than 12 months.
The write-down of inventories to net realisable value amounted to 0.5m 9-month period ended 30 September 2007: nil.
The write-down is included within underlying operating profit in cost of sales.
Trade and other receivables 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m Trade debtors 629.6 468.6 Amounts owed by related parties 133.5 184.1 Other debtors 340.6 245.4 Prepayments 549.8 479.8 Total 1,653.5 1,377.9 17.
Cash and cash equivalents 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m Cash 11.9 298.9 Short-term liquid assets 396.3 522.3 Deposits 721.6 1,137.5 Cash and cash equivalents 1,129.8 1,958.7 Cash and cash equivalents includes 45.9m 2007: 54.7m that is not available for immediate use by the Group.
This represents monies held to meet regulatory requirements.
Other investments disclosed on the balance sheet comprise cash balances held on a restricted basis by the Groups captive insurance funds as part of ongoing operations.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 102 18.
Assets classified as held for sale 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m Yachts and motor boats 2.7 0.9 Land and buildings 1.4 5.1 Aircraft 125.8 39.1 Disposal groups assets 24.1 40.4 Other 2.8 2.5 Total assets classified as held for sale 156.8 88.0 Disposal groups liabilities 22.4 18.8 Net assets classified as held for sale 134.4 69.2 The disposal group assets and liabilities held for sale included Socit dInvestissement Arien S. A. Jet4You at 30 September 2008 and Budget Travel Limited at 30 September 2007.
Aircraft held for sale relate to the Northern Europe and Central Europe Mainstream segments.
Jet4You is included within the Western Europe segment.
Budget Travel Limited was included within the Northern Europe segment at 30 September 2007.
Assets held for sale are expected to be sold within 12 months.
As described in Note 34, one aircraft has been sold and leased back under an operating lease subsequent to the year end.
In the year ended 30 September 2008 an impairment charge of 31.7m 9-month period ended 30 September 2007: 22.9m has been taken to record these plant, property and equipment assets at the lower of their carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
The impairment charge is included within separately disclosed restructuring and aircraft items Note 3.
Further details are included in Note 10.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m Current liabilities Bank loans and overdrafts 31.5 72.1 Loan notes 2.7 12.0 Finance leases and hire purchase contracts 20.4 34.5 Other financial liabilities 44.7 33.4 Total 99.3 152.0 Other financial liabilities comprise the fair value of a put option written by the Group to a minority interest shareholder in LTUR Tourismus AG LTUR that may require the Group to purchase the minority shareholding.
At 30 September 2008, the Group controlled a 51% shareholding in LTUR and the put option was exercisable at any point until 2012.
Subsequent to the year end it has been agreed that the put option will be exercised by the minority shareholder over 19% of his shareholding.
The put option over the remaining shares has been extended and may be exercised at any time until 2015.
Fair value changes in the put option liability are included within financial expenses or financial income.
30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m Non-current liabilities Amounts owed to related parties 840.0 1,400.0 Bank loans 154.3 480.6 Loan notes 5.8 16.3 Finance leases and hire purchase contracts 167.0 143.5 Other financial liabilities 3.7 Total 1,167.1 2,044.1 The bank loans and loan notes are repayable: 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m Within one year 34.2 84.1 Between one and five years 155.7 484.4 After five years 4.4 12.5 Total 194.3 581.0 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 103 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Certain loans are secured on the underlying assets of the company in whose name the borrowings are made.
At 30 September 2008 and 30 September 2007 the related party loans were all repayable within one to five years.
Finance lease liabilities relate primarily to the leasing of aircraft and boats.
Group obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are payable as follows: Minimum Minimum lease lease payments payments 30 September 30 September Principal Interest 2008 Principal Interest 2007 m m m m m m In respect of aircraft, yachts and equipment payable within: One year 20.4 9.0 29.4 34.5 8.7 43.2 One to five years 158.5 14.3 172.8 130.9 19.6 150.5 After five years 8.5 0.3 8.8 12.6 0.7 13.3 Total 187.4 23.6 211.0 178.0 29.0 207.0 20.
Current trade and other payables 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m Trade creditors 1,141.9 1,138.5 Deferred and contingent consideration Note 12 b 19.6 15.7 Other creditors 233.3 79.8 Amounts owed to related parties 77.4 127.3 Other taxes and social security costs 57.4 74.6 Accruals and deferred income 1,032.9 865.9 Client money received in advance 1,494.0 1,252.7 Preference share capital 0.1 Total 4,056.5 3,554.6 21.
Provisions for liabilities and charges Aircraft maintenance Restructuring Other Total m m m m At 1 October 2007 161.9 23.1 144.1 329.1 Provided in the year 161.2 48.3 90.4 299.9 Released in the year 0.6 2.9 13.0 16.5 Unwinding of discounted amount 4.0 4.0 Costs incurred 131.8 24.9 69.0 225.7 Exchange movements 9.6 2.2 12.6 24.4 At 30 September 2008 204.3 45.8 165.1 415.2 Analysed as: Non-current 154.3 1.2 24.8 180.3 Current 50.0 44.6 140.3 234.9 At 30 September 2008 204.3 45.8 165.1 415.2 Aircraft maintenance In respect of aircraft, provision is made for maintenance, overhaul and repair costs of operating leased airframes, engines and certain other components based on total anticipated costs over the useful economic life of the asset calculated by reference to costs experienced and published manufacturers data.
The charge to the income statement is calculated by reference to the number of hours and cycles flown and by reference to the length of the full overhaul cycle.
Costs incurred are charged against the provision.
Neither the timing nor the value of the expenditure can be precisely determined but they can be averaged over time and over a fleet.
The cost of major overhauls of owned airframes and engines is capitalised and depreciated over the period until the next scheduled major overhaul.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 104 Restructuring Restructuring relates to provisions arising as a result of reorganisation and restructuring plans that are irrevocably committed and includes severance payments.
Further details of restructuring projects in the current year are set out in Note 3.
Provisions are forecast to be utilised within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Other Other provisions relate to onerous lease contracts that have been entered into in the ordinary course of business, litigation including provisions for contingent liabilities recorded on acquisition of First Choice and other future obligations, the amount or timing of which is uncertain.
The majority of the provision is anticipated to be utilised within 12 months of the balance sheet date, although the timing and payments related to individual litigation claims is estimated and is inherently uncertain.
Non-current trade and other payables 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m Trade creditors 0.8 Deferred and contingent consideration Note 12 b 49.2 32.9 Other creditors 5.4 26.0 Amounts owed to related parties 0.1 Accruals and deferred income 92.8 127.2 Total 148.3 186.1 23.
Share capital 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m Authorised 1,999,500,020 2007: 1,999,500,020 ordinary shares of 10p each 199.9 199.9 49,998 2007: 49,998 redeemable preference shares of 1 each 0.1 0.1 Total 200.0 200.0 Allotted, called up and fully paid 1,118,010,670 2007: 1,118,010,670 ordinary shares of 10p each 111.8 111.8 Nil 2007: 49,998 redeemable preference shares of 1 each 0.1 Amounts recorded within creditors falling due in less than one year 0.1 Total 111.8 111.8 The Company was incorporated on 29 January 2007 with an initial share capital of 2 ordinary shares of 1 each.
These were issued to TUI AG and a nominee of First Choice Holidays PLC and fully paid.
On 19 June 2007 the authorised share capital was divided into 50,002 ordinary shares of 1 each and 49,998 redeemable preference shares of 1 each.
The redeemable preference shares were issued at par to TUI AG and fully paid.
On 28 June 2007 the authorised share capital was increased to 200m divided into 1,999,500,020 ordinary shares of 10p each and 49,998 redeemable preference shares of 1 each.
At this time the 2 ordinary shares of 1 each were converted to 20 ordinary shares of 10p each.
On 3 September 2007 a total of 547,825,228 ordinary shares of 10p each were allotted to the shareholders of First Choice Holidays PLC on a share for share exchange basis, 570,185,422 ordinary shares of 10p each were allotted to TUI AG and 10 ordinary shares of 10p each were transferred to TUI AG from the First Choice Holidays PLCs nominee.
This resulted in an issued and fully paid share capital of 1,118,010,670 ordinary shares of 10p each.
On 18 March 2008 the 49,998 redeemable preference shares of 1 each held by TUI AG were redeemed in full.
These were not redeemed automatically upon admission to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange pursuant to right iv below since there were insufficient distributable reserves at that time.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 105 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Redeemable preference shares The following is a summary of the rights and provisions in the Articles relating to the non-voting, non-dividend bearing Redeemable Preference Shares which were classified as liabilities within creditors falling due in less than one year on the balance sheet at 30 September 2007: i Income: the holders of the Redeemable Preference Shares shall not be entitled to receive a dividend: ii Capital: on a return of capital 1 per share: iii Voting: no right to vote at any general meeting of the Company unless a the meeting is to consider any resolution approving the purchase by the Company of its own shares, a reduction in the capital of, or the winding up of the Company, or b the meeting is to consider any resolution which abrogates or varies the rights attaching to the Redeemable Preference Shares: iv Redemption: subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Redeemable Preference Shares shall be redeemed automatically upon Admission.
Capital and reserves Equity Retained holders Share Share Capital Merger Revaluation Translation Hedging deficit of Minority capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings parent interest Total m m m m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2007 276.3 1,273.6 82.7 57.7 1,409.5 6.9 1,416.4 Total recognised income expense for the period 45.0 0.4 154.1 198.7 2.7 201.4 Share-based payment 0.3 0.3 0.3 Acquisition of own shares 12.8 12.8 12.8 Issue of preference shares 0.1 0.1 0.1 Reclassify preference shares to liabilities 0.1 0.1 0.1 Share issue expenses 23.3 23.3 23.3 Reclassification to TUI Travel PLC 219.3 1,273.6 993.2 499.7 499.7 Pre-merger dividends 23.4 23.4 23.4 Acquisition of First Choice Holidays PLC 54.8 1,520.1 23.4 3.4 1,554.9 0.9 1,555.8 Acquisition in stages 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.3 Dividends 13.2 13.2 2.0 15.2 Acquisition of minority interest 14.6 14.6 1.2 15.8 At 30 September 2007 111.8 2,490.0 0.2 45.0 106.5 82.9 2,623.4 7.4 2,630.8 Total recognised income expense for the year 187.4 133.6 270.5 50.5 5.0 55.5 Share-based payment 13.5 13.5 13.5 Redemption of shares 0.1 0.1 Acquisition of own shares 7.1 7.1 7.1 Dividends 65.4 65.4 4.5 69.9 Acquisition in stages 7.6 7.6 7.6 Acquisition of minority interest 16.3 16.3 2.5 18.8 At 30 September 2008 111.8 0.1 2,490.0 0.2 232.4 27.1 270.6 2,591.0 5.4 2,596.4 Merger reserve The merger reserve arose on the business combination of TUI Travel PLC TUI Travel, First Choice Holidays PLC First Choice and the Tourism Division of TUI AG on 3 September 2007.
The merger reserve arising from the acquisition of First Choice represents the excess of the fair value of the shares issued as consideration for the acquisition over the nominal value of the shares issued.
The merger reserve arising from the reclassification to TUI Travel represents the difference between the nominal value of the share capital and share premium of the combined businesses in the Tourism division of TUI AG and the nominal value of the shares issued in TUI Travel.
The merger reserve has also been charged with the costs of issuing the shares in TUI Travel and with the cash payment comprising a distribution of the difference between the net debt position of TUI Tourism at the date of the business combination and the target net debt as set out in the Prospectus dated 29 June 2007.
The merger reserve is non-distributable.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 106 Acquisition of minority interest During the year ended 30 September 2008, the Group acquired the minority interest shareholding in respect of a number of group subsidiaries.
The principal acquisition was in respect of the minority interest shareholdings in TUI sterreich GmbH and TUI sterreich GmbH and Co KG.
Acquisition in stages Equity adjustments in the year ended 30 September 2008 relating to acquisitions in stages are for the Groups acquisition of the remaining 50% shareholding in Socit Polynsienne Promotion Hotelire, a hotel operator within the Western Europe Mainstream sector and the remaining 60% shareholding of Jet4You, a Moroccan airline.
Both were previously equity accounted entities for which a share of net liabilities had not been recognised under IAS 28 and IAS 31.
Acquisition of own shares During the year the Group purchased own shares for 7.1m 9-month period ended 30 September 2007: 12.8m which has been debited to equity.
The number of shares held by the Groups Employee Benefit Trust EBT at 30 September 2008 and at 30 September 2007 is disclosed in the Remuneration Report on page 59.
The associated cash outflow is presented as an operating cash flow as the Group anticipates an annual level of own share purchases as part of its employee remuneration policy.
Other reserves Exchange gains or losses arising on the translation to the Groups reporting currency are recorded in the translation reserve.
Gains or losses arising on cash flow hedges are initially recorded in the hedging reserve and are recycled to the income statement in accordance with the accounting policy in Note 1.
The capital reserve is non-distributable.
Financial instruments a Treasury risk overview The Group is exposed to a variety of financial risks: Market risk in respect of foreign currency rate risk, fuel price risk and interest rate risk.
Liquidity risk in respect of the Groups ability to meet its liabilities.
Credit risk in respect of recovery of amounts owing to the Group.
The Groups key financial market risks are in relation to foreign currency rates and jet fuel price.
Currency risk results from the substantial cross-border element of the Groups trading, and arises on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies of individual Group businesses.
The risk is managed by the use of foreign exchange forward, swap and option contracts.
The Groups exposure to jet fuel prices results from the aircraft fleet operations and is managed using commodity swaps and options.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk that arises principally from the Groups floating rate aircraft leases, and floating rate bank loans and cash balances.
Certain finance leases and loans have fixed interest rates.
Credit risk and liquidity risk are considered in Notes 25 d and 25 f respectively.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework and to ensure that the Group has adequate policies, procedures and controls to successfully manage the financial risks that it faces.
These form part of the Groups overall Risk Management Framework.
Incorporated within the frameworks terms of reference are the determination of all treasury policies and the monitoring of the effectiveness of those policies.
Group Treasury implements the agreed policies on a day-to-day basis.
The procedures also stipulate the levels of authority applied to dealing and to approving the types of hedging financial instrument used to manage these exposures.
Transactions are only undertaken to hedge underlying exposures.
Financial instruments are not traded, nor are speculative positions taken.
The Treasury position of the Group, including liquidity, foreign exchange and fuel hedging exposure, is managed centrally in accordance with policies appropriate to cover specific risks faced by each business unit, and is the responsibility of the Group Finance Director and Group Treasurer.
Group Treasury conducts regular reviews of financial risks with business unit management teams.
Reports and forecasts are submitted monthly to the Group Management Board and to each PLC Board meeting.
In line with its established policy, the Group has monitored throughout the year its counterparty exposure with individual financial institutions.
Such counterparty risk can arise by way of cash deposited or derivative instruments traded.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 107 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued b Currency risk management The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies of individual Group businesses which are principally Sterling, Euro, US Dollar, Canadian Dollar and Swedish Kronor.
The Group publishes its consolidated financial statements in Sterling and as a result, it is also subject to foreign currency exchange translation risk in respect of the translation of the results and underlying net assets of its foreign operations into Sterling.
The Group hedges its foreign currency exposures on a seasonal basis, that is, winter season and summer season with each season comprising a six-month period.
At the start of a season the Group will have hedged substantially all of its foreign currency exposure forecast sales and purchases and related assets and liabilities for that season, using predominantly forward exchange contracts, most with a maturity of less than one year from the reporting date.
When necessary, forward contracts are rolled over at maturity to match the payment date.
In respect of other monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, the Group ensures that its net exposure is kept to an acceptable level principally by using forward contracts in respect of non-Sterling denominated airline maintenance provision balances, loan balances and deposits.
The following significant exchange rates to the Groups Sterling presentation currency excluding the impact of hedged transactions are illustrative of the rates applied during the current year and prior period: Average rate Mid-spot rate 9-month Year ended period ended 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 1 GBP equivalent 2008 2007 2008 2007 US Dollar 1.992 1.981 1.801 2.039 Euro 1.324 1.475 1.256 1.433 Canadian Dollar 1.991 2.188 1.885 2.026 Swedish Kronor 12.374 13.612 12.301 13.173 c Commodity risk Fuel commodity risk arises from the Groups operation of aircraft in Europe.
The Group hedges its fuel commodity exposures on a seasonal basis, being the winter season and summer season with each season comprising a six-month period.
At the start of a season the Group will have hedged substantially all of its fuel commodity exposure for that season, using predominantly forward exchange contracts, most with a maturity of less than one year from the reporting date.
During the current year, the Group has used option instruments in order to manage short-term volatility in respect of fuel hedging, whilst still continuing to apply the Groups documented hedging policies.
The charge for option premiums is included within separately disclosed items within cost of sales as they relate to 2009 seasonal hedging and arose directly as a result of the exceptional level of fuel price volatility during 2008.
Details of fuel forward derivative instruments are set out in Note 25 i. d Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
Credit risk arises from cash balances including bank deposits and cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables, financial guarantees and committed transactions.
Credit risk is managed separately for treasury and operating related credit exposures.
The Group minimises its financial credit risk through the application of risk management policies approved and monitored by the Board.
While counterparties are limited to major banks and financial institutions, Group policy ensures that individual counterparty limits are adhered to and that there are no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The Group monitors the credit ratings of its counterparties where applicable as part of its ongoing assessment of its credit exposure.
Financial instruments are only transacted with major financial institutions with strong credit ratings of A1 P1 or better.
Loans and other receivables exposures are managed locally in the operating units where they arise and credit limits are set as deemed appropriate for the customer.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables as the Group has a large number of internationally dispersed customers.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 108 The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: Carrying value Carrying value 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m Loans and receivables due within one year Trade receivables 629.6 468.6 Other debtors 474.1 429.5 Loans and receivables due after more than one year Other loans and advances 100.1 123.8 1,203.8 1,021.9 Cash and cash equivalents 1,129.8 1,958.7 Derivatives contracts used for hedging 321.0 44.0 Trade investments 22.9 22.9 Total 2,677.5 3,047.5 Loans and receivables exclude prepaid accommodation and other prepayments which do not meet the definition of a financial instrument.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for total loans and receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was: 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m United Kingdom 287.5 301.1 Germany 183.8 230.0 France 174.6 83.4 Other European countries 384.9 350.6 Rest of World 173.0 56.8 Total 1,203.8 1,021.9 The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was: 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m Not overdue 1,015.7 942.4 Overdue 1 30 days 115.0 42.4 Overdue 31 90 days 53.6 34.6 Overdue 91 180 days 33.7 20.6 Overdue more than 180 days 21.5 17.3 1,239.5 1,057.3 Provisions for bad and doubtful debts 35.7 35.4 Total 1,203.8 1,021.9 No material bad debt provision movements or changes have been recorded in the financial year.
Based on past experience and the post balance sheet period to the date of these financial statements, the Group considers that the impairment allowance recorded is adequate.
Within the impairment allowance there are no individually material amounts held.
Trade receivables not overdue and not impaired include amounts due from travel agencies in respect of Mainstream, Specialist, Activity and Online Destination Services.
Credit exposure to individual passengers booking holidays directly is limited by the Groups policy that full payment is required before the issue of tickets and holiday departure.
Cash, cash equivalents and other interest-bearing deposits principally comprise money market deposits and other short-term investments.
The investments are with counterparties with a strong credit rating of at least A1 P1 or better.
At 30 September 2008, approximately 48% 30 September 2007: 54% of the Groups unrestricted cash and cash equivalents were invested with counterparties based in the United Kingdom.
In addition, the Group makes prepayments for hotel accommodation.
Whilst such prepayments do not meet the definition of a financial asset under IAS 39, such prepayments give rise to a risk similar to credit risk due to the inherent risk of the Group not recovering the prepayment through full delivery of the related goods and services.
Prepayments from time to time can concentrate risk with specific counterparties which are based overseas.
The carrying amount of prepayments which are presented within current and non-current assets forms the maximum credit exposure, before taking into account any security or collateral held by the Group.
Where appropriate, the Group obtains security collateral over the related accommodation property, to mitigate credit risk.
At 30 September 2008, prepaid accommodation which is recoverable after more than one year was 88.8m 30 September 2007: 89.4m.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 109 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued e Interest rate risk The Group has exposure to interest rate risk arising principally on Sterling, US Dollar, and Euro floating interest rates that are attached to the Groups floating rate aircraft leases, and floating rate bank loans and cash balances.
The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss and the Group does not designate derivatives interest rate swaps as hedging instruments under a fair value hedge accounting model.
An analysis of interest-bearing financial instruments floating and fixed and applicable interest rates as at 30 September 2008 is set out below.
f Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach is to ensure that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed circumstances.
The Groups liquidity peaks in July and August, during the European summer holiday season, with the liquidity low point being in December and January.
To manage the liquidity position the Group is able to draw cash advances under its existing bank facilities which principally comprise two main sources of long-term debt funding, both of which have a number of years remaining before maturity: The shareholder loan from TUI AG of 1.0 billion which is fully drawn and matures in January 2011.
The external bank revolving credit facility of 770m which is 223.9m drawn at 30 September 2008 and matures in August 2012.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 110 The external bank revolving credit facility is used to manage the seasonality of the Groups cash flows and liquidity.
Cash positions, liquidity and available facility headroom are monitored daily by the Group treasury department.
The Board remains satisfied with the Groups funding and liquidity position.
Fixed charges cover and the ratio of net debt to EBITDA, which the Board believes to be the most useful measures of cash generation and gearing, as well as being the main basis for covenants in our credit facilities, were met at the year end.
Fixed charges cover is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and operating lease rentals charge EBITDAR divided by net interest plus operating lease rentals.
EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
The following are the undiscounted contractual cash flows of financial liabilities, including interest payments calculated using interest rates in force at each balance sheet date: Carrying Contractual Within 1-2 2-5 More than amount cash flows 1 year years years 5 years 30 September 2008 m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Shareholder loan 840.0 998.1 52.7 52.7 892.7 Secured bank loans 34.5 42.4 8.1 7.0 15.5 11.8 Unsecured bank loans 151.3 185.8 7.8 8.8 150.8 18.4 Finance leases 187.4 210.7 30.3 28.1 143.1 9.2 Loan notes 8.5 9.0 5.6 3.1 0.3 Other financial liabilities 44.7 44.7 44.7 Trade and other payables 2,606.6 2,606.6 2,553.8 52.8 Derivative financial liabilities Contracts used for hedging 227.7 210.8 166.0 37.3 7.5 Total 4,100.7 4,308.1 2,869.0 189.8 1,209.9 39.4 Carrying Contractual Within 1-2 2-5 More than amount cash flows 1 year years years 5 years 30 September 2007 m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Shareholder loan 1,400.0 1,695.0 78.8 76.6 1,539.6 Secured bank loans 40.5 46.7 9.5 14.0 10.2 13.0 Unsecured bank loans 512.2 668.3 103.2 33.1 532.0 Finance leases 178.0 207.0 43.2 37.6 112.9 13.3 Loan notes 28.3 31.3 15.3 3.8 12.2 Other interest-bearing liabilities 37.1 37.1 37.1 Trade and other payables 2,110.1 2,110.1 2,048.1 58.2 3.8 Derivative financial liabilities Contracts used for hedging 162.6 164.8 102.1 20.7 39.6 2.4 Total 4,468.8 4,960.3 2,437.3 244.0 2,250.3 28.7 The actual repayment of revolving credit facilities will vary.
The timing reflected in the tables is based on the first date that the Group can be required to settle the liability.
Trade and other payables exclude customers monies paid on account and deferred income.
As at 30 September 2008 the Group had available undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 546.1m 30 September 2007: 249.3m, comprising letters of credit, guarantees and revolving, floating rate credit facilities for cash borrowings.
Any non-compliance with covenants underlying the Groups financing arrangements could, if not waived, constitute an event of default with respect to any such arrangements.
The Group was in full compliance with its financial covenants throughout each of the periods presented.
Undrawn facilities are analysed as follows: 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m Expiring: Within one year In more than one year but less than five years 546.1 249.3 Total 546.1 249.3 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 111 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued g Analysis of total financial assets and financial liabilities The tables below set out the Groups IAS 39 classification for each of its financial assets and liabilities: Total Held for Available Loans and Amortised carrying trading for sale receivables cost value At 30 September 2008 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 1,129.8 1,129.8 Borrowings due within one year 54.6 54.6 Borrowings due after more than one year 1,167.1 1,167.1 Derivative assets 321.0 321.0 Derivative liabilities 227.7 227.7 Other financial assets 22.9 1,203.8 1,226.7 Other financial liabilities 2,651.3 2,651.3 Total 93.3 1,152.7 1,203.8 3,873.0 1,423.2 Total Held for Available Loans and Amortised carrying trading for sale receivables cost value At 30 September 2007 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 1,958.7 1,958.7 Borrowings due within one year 118.6 118.6 Borrowings due after more than one year 2,040.4 2,040.4 Derivative assets 44.0 44.0 Derivative liabilities 162.6 162.6 Other financial assets 22.9 1,021.9 1,044.8 Other financial liabilities 2,147.2 2,147.2 Total 118.6 1,981.6 1,021.9 4,306.2 1,421.3 Other financial assets comprise trade receivables and other debtors which are receivable within and after more than one year.
Other financial liabilities comprise trade payables and accruals which are payable within and after more than one year.
h Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet at 30 September 2008 and at 30 September 2007, are as follows: 30 September 2008 30 September 2007 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 1,129.8 1,129.8 1,958.7 1,958.7 Borrowings Shareholder loan 840.0 840.0 1,400.0 1,400.0 Bank loans 185.8 185.8 552.7 552.7 Loan notes 8.5 8.5 28.3 28.3 Finance lease liabilities 187.4 178.7 178.0 176.6 Derivative financial instruments Interest rate swaps used for hedging liabilities 0.2 0.2 Forward exchange contracts used for hedging assets 263.8 263.8 32.0 32.0 liabilities 111.7 111.7 161.3 161.3 Commodity contracts used for hedging assets 57.2 57.2 12.0 12.0 liabilities 116.0 116.0 1.1 1.1 Other financial assets Trade receivables 1,203.8 1,203.8 1,021.9 1,021.9 Trade investments 22.9 22.9 22.9 22.9 Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities 44.7 44.7 37.1 37.1 Trade and other payables 2,553.8 2,553.8 2,048.1 2,048.1 Other long-term payables 52.8 52.8 62.0 62.0 Total 1,423.2 1,414.5 1,421.3 1,419.9 The basis for fair value measurement of financial assets and liabilities is set out in Note 1 Y to the financial statements.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 112 i Derivative instruments At the balance sheet date the fair value of the Groups derivative financial assets and liabilities was as follows: 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 Assets Liabilities Total Assets Liabilities Total Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair value value value value value value Cash flow hedges m m m m m m Interest rate swaps 0.2 0.2 Foreign exchange forwards 229.2 86.6 142.6 29.2 151.4 122.2 Foreign exchange options 19.9 4.0 15.9 2.1 3.4 1.3 Commodity options 15.2 16.1 0.9 2.5 1.0 1.5 Commodity swaps 42.0 99.9 57.9 9.5 0.1 9.4 306.3 206.6 99.7 43.3 156.1 112.8 Hedges held for trading Foreign exchange forwards 14.7 21.1 6.4 0.7 6.5 5.8 Total 321.0 227.7 93.3 44.0 162.6 118.6 Analysed as: Current 273.5 177.7 95.8 37.6 137.1 99.5 Non-current 47.5 50.0 2.5 6.4 25.5 19.1 Total 321.0 227.7 93.3 44.0 162.6 118.6 All derivatives are held as cash flow hedges or to offset changes in the value of items recognised in the balance sheet.
Speculative positions are not undertaken.
The maturity profile of these derivative financial assets and liabilities analysed by fair value was as follows: Maturity profile Less than 1 Between 1 Between 2 Over 5 year and 2 years and 5 years years Total 30 September 2008 m m m m m Derivative financial assets Foreign exchange forwards 207.7 30.0 6.2 243.9 Foreign exchange options 14.0 5.5 0.4 19.9 Commodity options 12.3 2.3 0.6 15.2 Commodity swaps 39.5 2.4 0.1 42.0 273.5 40.2 7.3 321.0 Derivative financial liabilities Foreign exchange forwards 75.2 16.7 15.8 107.7 Foreign exchange options 2.2 1.5 0.3 4.0 Commodity options 11.6 4.4 0.1 16.1 Commodity swaps 88.7 11.2 - 99.9 177.7 33.8 16.2 227.7 Total 95.8 6.4 8.9 93.3 Maturity profile Less than 1 Between 1 Between 2 Over 5 year and 2 years and 5 years years Total 30 September 2007 m m m m m Derivative financial assets Foreign exchange forwards 28.0 1.9 29.9 Foreign exchange options 0.3 0.8 1.0 2.1 Commodity options 2.5 2.5 Commodity swaps 9.3 0.2 9.5 37.6 5.4 1.0 44.0 Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps 0.2 0.2 Foreign exchange forwards 135.0 19.9 3.0 157.9 Foreign exchange options 1.8 0.6 1.0 3.4 Commodity options 1.0 1.0 Commodity swaps 0.1 0.1 137.1 21.5 1.0 3.0 162.6 Total 99.5 16.1 3.0 118.6 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 113 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The following table indicates the periods in which the cash flows associated with derivatives which are principally cash flow hedges are expected to occur: Projected cash flows Less than 1 Between 1 Between 2 Over 5 year and 2 years and 5 years years 30 September 2008 m m m m Derivative financial assets Foreign exchange forwards 193.3 37.2 50.6 Foreign exchange options 3.4 Commodity options 8.0 Commodity swaps 42.2 2.1 246.9 39.3 50.6 Derivative financial liabilities Foreign exchange forwards 68.1 18.7 7.5 Foreign exchange options Commodity options 8.3 3.2 Commodity swaps 89.6 15.4 166.0 37.3 7.5 Total 80.9 2.0 43.1 Projected cash flows Less than 1 Between 1 Between 2 Over 5 year and 2 years and 5 years years 30 September 2007 m m m m Derivative financial assets Foreign exchange forwards 18.4 2.2 0.4 Foreign exchange options 0.7 Commodity options 4.9 0.8 Commodity swaps 19.8 0.3 42.4 3.3 0.4 Derivative financial liabilities Foreign exchange forwards 96.3 20.7 39.6 2.4 Foreign exchange options 3.2 Commodity options Commodity swaps 2.6 102.1 20.7 39.6 2.4 Total 59.7 17.4 40.0 2.4 Ineffectiveness Ineffectiveness in respect of cash flow hedges has been recognised in the income statement for the year ended 30 September 2008.
Ineffectiveness in the year to 30 September 2008 comprised 7.4m 9-month period to 30 September 2007: 3.8m relating to fuel hedging and this is included within underlying operating profit.
Aircraft order book derivatives In addition, separately disclosed gains of 27.9m have been recorded in the current year income statement resulting from fair value movements of derivatives undertaken to hedge the Groups future aircraft order book.
Due to uncertainty over the timing of future aircraft deliveries, cash flow hedge accounting to equity has been adopted for the intrinsic value of these derivative instruments but the forward or time element of changes to the derivatives fair values is recognised each period in the income statement as separately disclosed items.
The Directors have included the fair value gains arising in the current year as separately disclosed items Note 3 because they do not form part of the Groups underlying trading result and because in October 2008 the hedges were unwound and settled early in a planned process.
This early settlement has arisen because post the business combination forming TUI Travel, the Board has determined the Groups asset ownership strategy is asset right.
In terms of aircraft ownership and financing this means that the Groups preferred solution is to sell and leaseback new aircraft under operating leases at the time of delivery.
Consequently, payments for new aircraft in US dollars are now planned to be funded by way of proceeds from sale and leaseback transactions and future US dollar currency requirements are not required to be forward hedged.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 114 j Amounts recognised directly in equity The following amounts have been recognised directly in equity during the year period: 9-month Year ended period ended 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m Hedging reserve Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedge 162.7 22.5 Fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to profit and loss 37.1 25.8 199.8 3.3 Translation Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations recorded in the statement of recognised income and expense 180.4 44.4 Net charge to equity 380.2 47.7 k Capital management The Boards policy has been to maintain a strong capital base in order to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
The Group has a roadmap to deliver sustainable long-term value to shareholders with a return on invested capital greater than the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
Progress in achieving this objective has been made during this year, by improving underlying operating margins by 0.9ppts to 2.9%, increasing return on invested capital to 8.4%.
The Board seeks to maintain a balance between the levels of debt borrowings undertaken and the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
An analysis of net debt at the year end is in Note 26.
51.36% of the Groups share capital is held by TUI AG, please refer to Note 35.
From time to time the Group purchases its own shares on the market: the timing of these purchases depends on market prices.
Primarily the shares are intended to be used for issuing shares under the Groups share award programme.
Buy and sell decisions are made on a specific transaction basis by the Board: the Group does not have a defined share buy-back plan.
Certain subsidiaries have external capital requirements as a result of applicable travel industry regulations in their jurisdictions, though none are individually significant to the Group.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 115 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued l Sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analysis is for illustrative purposes only and should not be considered a projection of likely future events and gains or losses.
The sensitivity analysis includes the following assumptions: Change in market interest rates only affect interest income or expense of variable financial instruments.
Changes in mark et interest rates only affect interest income or expense in relation to financial instruments with fixed interest rates if these are recognised at fair value.
Changes in market interest rates affect the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments and all interest rate hedges are expected to be highly effective.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments and other financial assets or liabilities are estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using appropriate market rates prevailing at the period end.
All foreign currency and fuel cash flow hedges are expected to be highly effective.
The Group has used a sensitivity analysis technique that measures the estimated change to the income statement and equity of a 1% 100 basis points difference in market interest rates or a 10% strengthening or weakening in Sterling against all other currencies and in fuel prices from the rates applicable at the balance sheet date, with all other variables remaining constant.
Interest rate risk 30 September 2008 30 September 2007 Income statement Equity before tax Income statement Equity before tax 100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp increase decrease increase decrease increase decrease increase decrease Interest rate instruments m m m m m m m m Variable rate instruments 5.1 5.1 1.5 1.5 Fixed rate instruments Interest rate swaps 0.8 0.8 Total 5.1 5.1 1.5 1.5 0.8 0.8 Currency risk Under these assumptions, with a 10% strengthening or weakening of Sterling against all other currencies, loss before tax would have reduced by 23.7m 9-month period ended 30 September 2007: profit reduced by 10.8m or increased by 28.9m 9-month period ended 30 September 2007: profit increased by 13.2m, respectively principally relating to the translation of the income statement of overseas subsidiaries.
Equity before tax would have decreased by 203.6m 2007: 153.4m or increased by 248.8m 2007: 183.0m, respectively.
Fuel price risk The sensitivity analysis is based on a 10% increase or decrease in fuel prices and the sensitivity will differ correspondingly if the fuel markets are more or less volatile.
Under these assumptions, with a 10% increase or decrease in the unit price of fuel, profit before tax would neither increase nor decrease materially, because of the fuel price hedging policy.
Equity before tax would increase by 107.6m 2007: 78.4m, or decrease by 142.1m 2007: 55.7m, respectively.
Movements in cash and net debt 30 September Cash Non-cash Foreign Arising on 30 September 2007 movement movement exchange acquisition 2008 m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 1,958.7 950.6 121.7 1,129.8 Amounts due to related parties 1,400.0 778.8 23.4 195.4 840.0 Bank loans 552.7 400.0 17.5 15.6 185.8 Loan notes 28.3 21.5 0.6 1.1 8.5 Finance leases 178.0 25.6 10.5 24.5 187.4 Other financial liabilities 37.1 4.2 3.4 44.7 Net debt 237.4 275.3 38.7 120.2 15.6 136.6 Non-cash movements in respect of loan notes arise from the issue of loan notes by the Group as consideration for acquisitions made during the year.
Cash movements in respect of loan notes are presented in the cash flow statement within cash flows arising on acquisition of subsidiaries.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 116 27.
Operating lease commitments Total Group obligations under non-cancellable operating lease contracts are payable as follows: Land Aircraft, Land Aircraft, and yachts and and yachts and buildings equipment buildings equipment 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 2008 2008 2007 2007 m m m m Total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: Within one year 152.5 340.8 153.4 282.4 Between one and five years 414.2 825.5 356.0 671.6 Later than five years 275.3 165.9 296.6 124.7 Total 842.0 1,332.2 806.0 1,078.7 Operating lease commitments in respect of land and buildings principally comprise commitments in respect of the Groups retail estate.
The increase in total aircraft lease commitments year-on-year reflects the sale and operating leaseback of 24 aircraft during the current year.
In total the Group operates 128 aircraft on operating leases at 30 September 2008 2007: 121 aircraft.
Yachts are held on operating leases in TUI Marine as part of the Groups Sunsail and The Moorings fleets.
Capital commitments 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m Contracted but not provided for 60.2 31.1 In addition to the above items, the Group has contracted to purchase sixty aircraft, initial deliveries of which will start from the last quarter of 2008.
The Group intends to refinance these aircraft in advance of their delivery dates and therefore does not expect to use its own cash resources for their purchase.
At list price, the total order value is US$6,611m.
The Groups joint ventures and associates had no material capital commitments at 30 September 2008 2007: nil.
Contingent liabilities The Group is at any time defending a number of actions against it arising in the normal course of business.
Provision is made for these actions where this is deemed appropriate.
No actions which are outstanding at 30 September 2008 are expected to have a material effect on these accounts.
The Directors consider that adequate provision has been made for all known liabilities.
Related party transactions Apart from with its own subsidiaries which are included in the consolidated financial statements, TUI Travel PLC, in carrying out its ordinary business activities, maintained direct and indirect relationships with related parties including consolidated or related companies of its ultimate parent company, TUI AG.
These companies delivered services to TUI Travel PLC companies.
The Group also undertook transactions with its joint ventures and associated companies.
These transactions related primarily to incoming agencies and hotel companies used by the Groups tour operators.
The income and expenses arising from transactions with associates and joint ventures are included within the appropriate sector revenue or costs as presented in the segmental analysis.
All transactions with related parties were executed on an arms length basis and as customary with independent third parties.
Shareholder loan A shareholder loan was advanced to TUI Travel PLC by TUI AG on 3 September 2007.
The loan is repayable in full on 16 January 2011 and bears interest at EURIBOR plus a margin, currently 1.1% per annum, increasing six-monthly by 0.2% to a maximum of 2.0% per annum.
The Company can make voluntary repayments at any time during the term of the loan subject to a minimum repayment of 10.0m and the giving of 30 days notice.
The drawn balance of the loan at 30 September 2008 was 1,019.0m 30 September 2007: 2,000.0m, not including accrued interest payable.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 117 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Hotel Framework Agreement As part of the relationship arrangements between TUI Travel PLC and TUI AG at the time of the merger, both parties entered into the Hotel Framework Agreement, which governs the commercial relationship between TUI AG and TUI Travel PLC in respect of the distribution of hotel beds forming part of the hotel portfolio interests retained by TUI AG.
Under the Hotel Framework Agreement, TUI Deutschland TUI Travel PLCs tour operating business continues to have access to the Robinson hotel portfolio and to the distribution of such portfolios hotel beds in Europe on the basis of the existing levels of exclusivity and seasonal arrangements between TUI Deutschland and Robinson, as practised prior to the merger.
In addition, TUI Deutschland agrees to provide the same services in relation to the distribution of the beds as it did prior to the merger and shall be entitled to use certain Robinson trademarks in connection with these services.
The Hotel Framework Agreement expires on 31 October 2011, provided that one year prior to such expiry the parties shall discuss in good faith and endeavour to agree a replacement agreement.
Trademark Licence Agreement The Trademark Licence Agreement incorporates trademark licences granted from TUI AG to members of the TUI Tourism Group in relation to TUI Tourisms use of the TUI name and logo and other trademarks from within TUI AGs portfolio of trademarks used in the former TUI Tourisms business.
Licence fees payable under each licence are an annual fee equal to 0.02 percent of the average annual gross turnover of the relevant licensee under the relevant trademarks measured over a three year period.
Total licence fees charged in the year ended 30 September 2008 were 3.2m 9-month period ended 30 September 2007: 2.0m.
Each licences standard terms are for five years with an option for the relevant licensee to extend for a further five years on the same terms.
Details of transactions with related parties and balances outstanding at the balance sheet date are set out in the tables below: Revenue Expenses 9-month 9-month Year ended period ended Year ended period ended 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 2008 2007 Related Party m m m m Ultimate parent TUI AG 3.6 2.6 78.3 85.4 Hotel and resort subsidiaries of TUI AG 2.4 1.2 349.2 194.5 Other subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates of TUI AG 18.5 1.6 31.1 4.7 Joint ventures and associates of the Group 18.1 2.3 20.8 19.6 Total 42.6 7.7 479.4 304.2 Receivables outstanding Payables outstanding 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 2008 2007 Related Party m m m m Ultimate parent TUI AG 106.8 169.1 840.0 1,433.0 Hotel and resort subsidiaries of TUI AG 3.7 5.3 52.6 41.1 Other subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates of TUI AG 4.9 2.3 12.0 18.0 Joint ventures and associates of the Group 19.7 16.7 12.9 35.2 Total 135.1 193.4 917.5 1,527.3 In accordance with IAS 24, key management functions within the Group and the Executive Board were related parties whose remuneration had to be listed separately.
The compensation paid in respect of key management personnel including directors was as follows: 9-month Year ended period ended 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 m m Short-term employee benefits 18.0 1.5 Post-retirement benefits 1.8 0.1 Share-based payments 7.5 0.2 Total 27.3 1.8 In the comparative period, the amounts disclosed are for the one month post-merger period.
Details of Directors Remuneration are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 59.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 118 31.
Key accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of consolidated financial statements under Adopted IFRSs requires the Group to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amount of revenue and expenses during the year period.
The Group evaluates its estimates and judgements on an on-going basis.
Such estimates and judgements are based upon historical experience and other factors it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from estimates.
Management has discussed with the Audit Committee the development, selection and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and estimates and the applications of these policies and estimates.
Key estimates and judgements have been made in respect of the following areas: Intangible assets Goodwill carrying value A full impairment review has been performed of all goodwill balances held across the Group on a cash generating unit basis.
The impairment review is performed on a value in use basis, which requires estimation of future net operating cash flows, the time period over which they will occur, an appropriate discount rate and an appropriate growth rate.
Further details, including sensitivity analysis, are given in Note 9 and the accounting policy is set out in Note 1 P. Other asset carrying values Management perform an assessment at each balance sheet date of all material assets across the Group for signs of impairment.
Key judgement areas include the carrying values of land and buildings, aircraft, ships, yachts and motorboats, trade receivables, and prepaid accommodation.
The recovery of these assets is dependent on estimated future cash flows receivable and the provision of future services or goods by third parties.
Useful economic lives and residual values are subject to regular management review.
Business combinations Judgement and estimation is required in the identification and valuation of separable assets and liabilities on acquisitions.
In particular, judgement and estimation is required in the identification and valuation of separable intangible assets, being brands, orders books and customer databases, and determining appropriate useful economic lives for these assets.
Judgement and estimation is also required in determining contingent consideration payable in respect of acquisitions.
Details of acquisitions are set out in Note 12.
Provisions Judgement and estimation is required in determining aircraft maintenance, restructuring and onerous lease provisions.
Details of provisions made and the basis on which the provision has been calculated is disclosed in Note 21 and the accounting policy is set out in Note 1 T. Defined benefit pension plans A qualified independent actuary undertakes the estimation of the present value of the Groups obligations under defined benefit pension schemes using assumptions taken from a range of possible actuarial assumptions.
These assumptions may not be borne out in practice, especially due to the long timescales involved.
In particular, the valuation of scheme assets is based on the fair value at the balance sheet date.
As these assets are not intended to be sold in the short-term, their value may change significantly prior to realisation.
In reviewing the work of the qualified independent actuary management were required to exercise judgement to satisfy themselves that appropriate weight had been afforded to macroeconomic factors.
Details of the actual assumptions used, including sensitivity analysis, are set out in Note 5.
Share-based payments Judgement and estimation is required in determining the fair value of share awards options when granted.
The fair value is estimated using valuation techniques which take into account the award options exercise price, its term, the risk-free interest rate and the expected volatility of the market price of the Companys shares.
Details of share-based payments and the assumptions applied are disclosed in Note 5 and the accounting policy is set out in Note 1 I.
Derivative financial instruments Judgement is required in the assessment of prospective effectiveness and specifically in the assessment of the probability of forecast transactions, both at hedge inception and during the period over which hedge accounting is adopted.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments can involve judgement.
Where appropriate, external valuations from financial institutions are undertaken to support the carrying value of such items.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale The classification of non-current assets and disposal groups as held for sale requires judgement in determining whether the planned disposal is highly probable and able to be realised within 12 months.
The measurement of held for sale assets at their fair value less costs to sell can also require significant judgement if there is no active market.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 119 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Lease accounting Judgement is required in the initial classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases and, in respect of finance leases, determining the appropriate discount rate implicit in the lease to discount minimum lease payments.
In respect of certain leases classified as finance leases, it has not been possible to reliably estimate lessors residual values and management has been required to independently estimate an appropriate discount rate.
Judgement is also required in respect of the treatment of gains and losses arising on the sale and leaseback of assets see Note 10.
The accounting policy for leases is set out in Notes 1 G and 1 H. Taxation The Group has, from time to time, contingent tax liabilities arising from trading and corporate transactions in the UK and overseas jurisdictions.
After taking appropriate external advice, the Group makes provision for these liabilities based on the probable level of economic loss that may be incurred and which is reliably measurable.
Judgement is also required in the assessment of the future recoverability of tax losses and recognition of deferred tax assets.
Details of unrecognised tax losses are given in Note 14.
Principal operating subsidiaries Other than stated below, all the principal operating subsidiaries listed are wholly owned.
Principal operating subsidiaries are those which, in the opinion of the Directors, significantly affected the Groups results and net assets during the year.
The Directors consider that those companies not listed are not significant in relation to the Group as a whole.
All of the subsidiaries have only ordinary share capital except for First Choice Canada Inc. which also has unlimited preference shares all of which are owned by the Group.
TUI UK Limited is presented within the Mainstream Sector, Northern Region to reflect its principal operations but the company also includes certain UK Activity and Specialist businesses at 30 September 2008.
Subsidiary Country Nature of business Mainstream Northern Region Falcon Leisure Group Overseas Limited Eire Tour operator First Choice Holidays & Flights Limited United Kingdom Tour operator First Choice Airways Limited United Kingdom Airline First Choice Holidays Finance Limited United Kingdom Treasury operation First Choice Retail Limited United Kingdom Travel agent First Choice Canada Inc Canada Tour operator Thomson Airways Limited United Kingdom Airline TUI Nordic Holding AB Sweden Tour operator TUI UK Limited United Kingdom Tour operator TUIfly Nordic AB Sweden Airline Mainstream Central Europe Berge und Meer Touristik GmbH Germany Tour operator Hapag-Lloyd Express GmbH Germany Airline Hapag-Lloyd Fluggesellschaft mbH Germany Airline LTUR Tourismus AG 51% Germany Tour operator TUI Suisse AG Switzerland Tour operator TUI Austria Holding GmbH Austria Tour operator TUI Aviation GmbH Germany Leasing company TUI Deutschland GmbH Germany Tour operator TUI Leisure Travel GmbH Germany Travel agent TUI sterreich GmbH Austria Tour operator Mainstream Western Europe First Choice Nederland B. V. Netherlands Tour operator Groupe Marmara SAS France Tour operator Groupe Nouvelles Frontires S. A. S. France Tour operator JetAir N. V. Belgium Tour operator TUI Airlines Belgium N. V. Belgium Airline TUI Airlines Nederland B. V. Netherlands Airline TUI Travel Belgium N. V. Belgium Tour operator TUI Nederland N. V. Netherlands Tour operator Socit dInvestissement Arien S. A. Jet4You Morocco Airline Jet4You is held for sale at 30 September 2008.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 120 Subsidiary Country Nature of business Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector Aventuria SA France Tour operator Boss Tours Quebec Inc Canada Tour operator Caradonna Dive Adventures, Inc USA Tour operator Citalia Holidays Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Country Walkers, Inc USA Tour operator Educational Tours, Inc USA Tour operator EEFC, Inc USA Tour operator Hayes & Jarvis Travel Limited United Kingdom Tour operator I Viaggi del Turchese Srl Italy Tour operator International Expeditions, Inc USA Tour operator Les Tours Jumpstreet Tours Inc Canada Tour operator Meon Travel Limited United Kingdom Tour operator National Events Inc. USA Tour operator Royal Vacaciones SL Spain Tour operator Educatours Limited Canada Tour operator Starquest Expeditions, Inc USA Tour operator StudentCity.
com, Inc USA Tour operator TCS Expeditions, Inc USA Tour operator Tourinter SA France Tour operator TRAVCOA Corporation USA Tour operator Travelmood Limited United Kingdom Long-haul Travel Your Man Tours, Inc USA Tour operator Activity Sector Adventures Worldwide Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Australian Pinnacle Tours Pty Limited Australia Tour operator Australian Sports Tours Pty Ltd Australia Tour operator CHS Tour Services Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Clipper Cruise Line, LLC USA Cruise vessel operator Crown Blue Line Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Events International Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Exodus Travels Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Fanatics Sports & Party Tours Pty Limited Australia Tour operator Gullivers Sport Travel Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Hannibal Travel Group A S Denmark Tour operator Mariner International Travel, Inc USA Tour operator MyPlanet International A S Denmark Tour operator Peregrine Adventures Pty Ltd Australia Tour operator Quark Expeditions, Inc USA Tour operator Real Travel Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Sawadee Amsterdam BV Netherlands Tour operator Ski Bound Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Sportsworld Group Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Sunsail Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Sunsail Worldwide Sailing Limited United Kingdom Tour operator The Imaginative Traveller Limited United Kingdom Tour operator The Moorings Limited British Virgin Islands Tour operator World Challenge Holdings Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Yachts International Limited British Virgin Islands Tour operator TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 121 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Subsidiary Country Nature of business Online Destination Services Sector Asiarooms Pte Limited Singapore Online accommodation Cruiselink II Limited USA Cruise services Destination Florida New England, Inc. USA Cruise services Hotelbeds Shanghai Commercial Services Co, Limited Peoples Republic of China Destination services Hotelbeds SLU Spain Online accommodation Hotelbeds Spain SLU Spain Destination services Hotelbeds USA, Inc USA Destination services Hotelopia SL Spain Online accommodation Hotels London Limited United Kingdom Online accommodation Late Rooms Limited United Kingdom Late accommodation Pacific World Limited Hong Kong Destination services Pacific World Singapore Pte Limited Singapore Destination services Trina Tours Limited United Kingdom Destination services TUI Espaa Turismo S. A. Spain Destination services 33.
Earnings per share The basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the result attributable to ordinary shareholders by the applicable weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the employee share ownership trusts.
The diluted earnings per share is calculated on the result attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by the adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares, which takes account of the outstanding share awards, where their conversion is dilutive.
The additional earnings per share measures have been given to provide the reader of the accounts with a better understanding of the results.
As the majority of the Groups share capital was not in issue for eight months of the prior period, the weighted average number of shares would not give a meaningful result and hence the number of shares outstanding at 30 September 2007 has been used to calculate the prior period earnings per share.
Basic earnings per share Pro forma Weighted Loss Pro forma No.
of shares earnings Loss average no.
earnings earnings 30 September per share No.
of shares Earnings earnings of shares per share 2007 2007 2007 Earnings 30 September per share 2008 2008 2008 m Millions Pence 2007 2007 2007 m Millions Pence unaudited unaudited unaudited m Millions Pence Basic loss earnings per share 270.7 1,108.7 24.4 6.6 1,109.3 0.6 71.1 1,109.3 6.4 Amortisation of business combination intangibles, and impairment of goodwill net of tax 173.6 15.6 50.8 4.6 30.0 2.7 Basic loss earnings per share before amortisation of business combination intangibles, and impairment of goodwill net of tax 97.1 1,108.7 8.8 57.4 1,109.3 5.2 101.1 1,109.3 9.1 Separately disclosed items net of tax 323.1 29.2 102.0 9.2 25.5 2.3 Basic underlying earnings per share 226.0 1,108.7 20.4 159.4 1,109.3 14.4 126.6 1,109.3 11.4 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 122 Diluted earnings per share Pro forma Weighted Loss Pro forma No.
of shares Earnings earnings of shares per share 2007 2007 2007 Earnings 30 September per share 2008 2008 2008 m Millions Pence 2007 2007 2007 m Millions Pence unaudited unaudited unaudited m Millions Pence Basic loss earnings per share 270.7 1,108.7 24.4 6.6 1,109.3 0.6 71.1 1,109.3 6.4 Effect of dilutive options 9.3 0.2 8.7 8.7 Basic loss earnings per share adjusted for dilution 270.7 1,118.0 24.2 6.6 1,118.0 0.6 71.1 1,118.0 6.4 Amortisation of business combination intangibles, and impairment of goodwill net of tax 173.6 15.5 50.8 4.5 30.0 2.6 Diluted loss earnings per share before amortisation of business combination intangibles, and impairment of goodwill net of tax 97.1 1,118.0 8.7 57.4 1,118.0 5.1 101.1 1,118.0 9.0 Separately disclosed items net of tax 323.1 28.9 102.0 9.2 25.5 2.3 Diluted underlying earnings per share 226.0 1,118.0 20.2 159.4 1,118.0 14.3 126.6 1,118.0 11.3 In the year ended 30 September 2008 the effect of options is anti-dilutive due to the loss for the year.
The anti-dilutive effect is not taken into account and basic loss per share and diluted loss per share are both disclosed as 24.4 pence.
The effect of diluted options in 2008 is included solely to calculate diluted underlying earnings per share.
Post balance sheet events The following events after 30 September 2008 are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements: Acquisitions: details of acquisitions since the balance sheet date are set out in Note 12.
Close out of aircraft order book hedging derivatives: details are provided in Note 25.
In addition, on 23 October 2008 the Group sold and leased back one aircraft under an operating lease for sale proceeds of $42.5m.
Ultimate parent company The ultimate parent company is considered to be TUI AG, a company registered in Berlin and Hanover Federal Republic of Germany.
At 30 September 2008 TUI AG is the beneficial owner of 51.36% of the ordinary share capital of the Company on a fully diluted basis.
Prior to the business combination of First Choice Holidays PLC and the Tourism Division of TUI AG, TUI Travel PLC and TUI AG entered into a Relationship Agreement that would take effect at the time of the merger.
The Relationship Agreement will remain in force until either the shares of the Company are no longer admitted to listing on the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchange, or TUI AG has less than 10% of the rights to vote at general meetings of TUI Travel PLC.
This agreement determines that the relationship between the parties is an arms length, standard commercial relationship and that all transactions are effected on this basis.
TUI AG prepares consolidated financial statements which include the results of the Company.
The accounting reference date of TUI AG is 31 December.
Copies of the TUI AG financial statements are publicly available and can be obtained from the registered office of this company situated at Karl-Wiechert-Allee 4, 30625 Hanover, Federal Republic of Germany.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 123
