Governance Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also Report and the TUI Travel PLC Group of Companies Group responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors and parent company financial statements in accordance with Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement applicable law and regulations.
that comply with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
integrity of the corporate and financial information included Under that law they are required to prepare the Group on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted the preparation and dissemination of financial statements by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Directors responsibility statement Accepted Accounting Practice.
Each of the Directors, the names of whom are set out on page 37 of this Annual Report, confirms that, to the best of The Group financial statements are required by law and his or her knowledge: IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and the performance of the Group: the Companies The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and statements giving a true and fair view are references to their the profit or loss of the company and the undertakings achieving a fair presentation.
included in the consolidation taken as a whole.
The Directors report includes a review of the development The parent company financial statements are required by and performance of the business and the position of the law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation parent company.
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: The responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 26 November 2008 and signed on its behalf by Select suit able accounting policies and then apply them Paul Bowtell, Chief Financial Officer.
Mak e judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
F or the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted Paul Bowtell by the EU.
Chief Financial Officer F or the parent company financial statements, state 26 November 2008 whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements.
P repare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 42
