Group overview Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements UK & Irish Share Incentive Plans SIPs The SIPs were launched at the beginning of 2004.
These are all employee plans, which have been set up in both the UK and Ireland, that enable employees to make contributions out of salary up to prescribed limits each month, which are used by the Plan trustees to acquire Tullow shares Partnership Shares.
The Company makes a matching contribution to the trustees to acquire a matching number of Tullow shares Matching Shares on a one-for-one basis.
The SIPs have a three month accumulation period.
The fair value of a Matching Share is the market value at grant adjusted for any options included.
For this purpose, the grant date is the start of the accumulation period.
For the UK plan, Partnership Shares are purchased at the lower of the market values at the start of the Accumulation Period and the purchase date.
For the Irish plan, shares are bought at the market price at the purchase date.
Matching shares vest three years after grant and dividends are paid to the employee during this period.
The Company recognised a total expense of nil 2007: nil for the matching shares and nil 2007: nil for the partnership shares.
Related party transactions Transactions with the Directors of Tullow Oil plc are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 75.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions available under FRS 8 Related party transactions with regard to the non-disclosure of transactions with Group companies.
Subsequent events In January 2009 the Company announced the successful placing and subsequent issue of a total of 66,938,141 new ordinary shares with institutions at 600 pence per share.
This represents an increase of approximately 9.1% in Tullows existing issued share capital.
These shares are credited as fully paid and rank pari passu in all respects with existing ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company, including the right to receive all dividends and other distributions declared, made or paid on or in respect of such shares after the date of issue.
In March 2009, the Company announced that it had finalised arrangements for US$2 billion 1.4 billion of new reserve-based lending facilities.
In March 2009, the Company announced a major new discovery at Tweneboa, which continues the 100% exploration success record in Ghana.
Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 125
