Financial statements Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the financial records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Parent Company financial statements comply Group with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for Company Law requires the Directors to prepare financial safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence taking statements for each financial year.
The Directors are required reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud by the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group financial and other irregularities.
statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Group financial The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and statements are also required by law to be properly prepared integrity of the corporate and financial information included in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom the IAS Regulation.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups Directors responsibility statement required by DTR 4.1.
12R financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
We confirm to the best of our knowledge: This requires the faithful representation of the effects of 1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or income and expenses set out in the International Accounting loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and consolidation taken as a whole: and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by 2. the business review, which is incorporated into the compliance with all applicable International Financial directors report, includes a fair review of the development Reporting Standards.
However, Directors are also required to: and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation properly select and apply accounting policies: taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal present information, including accounting policies, in risks and uncertainties they face.
a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable By order of the Board and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
Aidan Heavey Ian Springett Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Parent Company 10 March 2009 10 March 2009 The Directors have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The Parent Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
80 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts
