Supplementary information Shareholder information Shareholder enquiries Electronic communication All enquiries concerning shareholdings including notification Shareholders have the option to receive shareholder of change of address, loss of a share certificate or dividend communications including annual reports, interim reports payments should be made to the Companys registrars, and notices of meetings electronically.
Tullow actively Computershare Investor Services PLC, whose contact details supports Woodland Trust, the UKs leading woodland are as follows: conservation charity.
eTree is an environmental programme designed to promote electronic shareholder Computershare Investor Services PLC communications under which the Company makes a The Pavilions donation to the eTree initiative for every shareholder Bridgwater Road who registers for electronic communication.
To register Bristol for this service, simply visit www.
com tullowoilplc BS99 6ZZ with your shareholder number and email address to hand.
Once registered, shareholders will be emailed when an Contact: www.
co. uk contactus Annual Report, Half-yearly Report or Notice of Meeting Telephone number UK shareholders: 0870 703 6242 is available for viewing in the Tullow website.
Telephone number Irish shareholders: 00 353 1 216 3744 Telephone number other shareholders: 00 44 870 703 6242 Shareholder security Shareholders are advised to be cautious about any unsolicited A range of shareholder frequently asked questions and financial advice: offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of practical help on transferring shares and updating details is free company reports.
More detailed information can be found available online in the Shareholder Services section located in at www.
uk and in the Shareholder the Investors area of the Tullow website: www.
Services section of the Investors area of the Tullow website: www.
Computershare online enquiry service Computershare provides a range of services through Investor ShareGift Centre free of charge at www.
This If you have a small number of shares whose value makes service, accessible from anywhere in the world, enables it uneconomical to sell you may wish to consider donating shareholders to check details of their shareholdings or them to ShareGift.
Any shares donated to ShareGift will dividends, download forms to notify changes in personal be aggregated and sold when possible with the proceeds details, and access other relevant information.
donated to a wide range of UK charities.
The relevant share transfer form may be obtained from Computershare.
Payment of dividends Further information about the scheme is available at Shareholders can have their dividends paid directly into a UK www.
sterling or Irish euro bank account and have the tax voucher sent directly to their registered address.
You can register Financial calendar your account details in Investor Centre or, alternatively Financial year end 31 December 2008 download a dividend mandate form.
2008 Full-year results announced 11 March 2009 Overseas shareholders who wish to have their dividends Annual General Meeting 12 May 2009 paid in a local currency can use the Global Payments Interim Management Statement 12 May 2009 Service that Computershare has established.
Details of the 2008 Final dividend payable 21 May 2009 service can be accessed in the Shareholder Services section 2009 Half-yearly results announced 26 August 2009 of the Investors area of the Tullow website: www.
2009 Interim dividend payable November 2009 Share dealing service Interim Management Statement November 2009 A telephone share dealing service has been established for shareholders with Computershare for the sale and purchase of Tullow Oil shares.
Shareholders who are interested in using this service can obtain further details by calling the appropriate telephone number below: UK shareholders: 0870 703 0084 Irish shareholders: 00 353 1 41 270 3203 Other shareholders : 00 44 141 270 3203 Further details of the terms applying to the service can also be obtained from the Shareholder Services section of the Investors area of the Tullow website: www.
Kindly note, this service cannot be offered to residents of any territories where such offers are not permitted by local securities regulations or other regulatory requirements.
It is the responsibility of shareholders outside the European Union who wish to use this service to ensure compliance with local law and regulatory requirements.
If you are in any doubt you should consult an appropriate professional advisor.
132 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts
