Group overview Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements Year ended 31 December 2008 a Basis of accounting f Share issue expenses and share premium account The financial statements have been prepared under the Costs of share issues are written off against the premium historical cost convention in accordance with the Companies arising on the issues of share capital.
Act 1985 and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles g Taxation UK GAAP.
The following paragraphs describe the main Current and deferred tax, including UK corporation tax, is accounting policies under UK GAAP which have been provided at amounts expected to be paid using the tax rates applied consistently.
and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted In accordance with the provisions of Section 230 of the by the balance sheet date.
Companies Act, the profit and loss account of the Company is h Share-based payments not presented separately.
In accordance with the exemptions The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 available under FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements, the Company Share-based payments.
In accordance with the transitional has not presented a cash flow statement as the cash flow of provisions of that standard, only those awards that were the Company has been included in the cash flow statement granted after 7 November 2002, and had not vested at of Tullow Oil plc Group set out on page 84.
b Investments All share-based awards of the Company are equity settled as Fixed asset investments, including investments in subsidiaries, defined by FRS 20.
The fair value of these awards has been are stated at cost and reviewed for impairment if there are determined at the date of grant of the award allowing for the indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
effect of any market-based performance conditions.
This fair c Finance costs and debt value, adjusted by the Companys estimate of the number of Finance costs of debt are allocated to periods over the term awards that will eventually vest as a result of non-market of the related debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
conditions, is expensed uniformly over the vesting period.
Interest-bearing bank loans are recorded at the proceeds The fair values were calculated using a binomial option pricing received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including model with suitable modifications to allow for employee premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct turnover after vesting and early exercise.
Where necessary issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the profit this model was supplemented with a Monte Carlo model.
or loss account using the effective interest method and are The inputs to the models include: the share price at date of added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent grant: exercise price: expected volatility: expected dividends: that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
risk free rate of interest: and patterns of exercise of the plan participants.
d Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
e Foreign currencies Sterling is the reporting currency of the Company.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the transaction date.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date, with a corresponding charge or credit to the profit and loss account.
However, exchange gains and losses arising on long-term foreign currency borrowings, which are a hedge against the Companys overseas investments, are dealt with in reserves.
Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 117
