Supplementary information Glossary API Measure of crude oil quality HIPO High Potential Incident AGM Annual General Meeting HR Human Resources bbl Barrel IAS International Accounting Standard bcf Billion cubic feet IFC International Finance Corporation boe Barrels of oil equivalent IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee boepd Barrels of oil equivalent per day IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards bopd Barrels of oil per day IMS Information Management System bwpd Barrels of water per day ISO International Organization for Standardization CMS Caister Murdoch System km Kilometres CMS III A group development of five satellite fields linked to CMS KPI Key Performance Indicator CSR Corporate Social Responsibility LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate CMT Crisis Management Team LNG Liquid Natural Gas CNG Compressed Natural Gas LTI Lost Time Incident D&PL Development and Production Lease LTIFR LTI Frequency Rate measured in LTIs per million hours worked DRC Democratic Republic of Congo mmbbl Million barrels DSBP Deferred Share Bonus Plan mmboe Million barrels of oil equivalent E&A Exploration and Appraisal mmscfd Million standard cubic feet per day EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation OGP Oil & Gas Producers EHS Environment, Health and Safety P&D Production and Development EPS Early Production System PAYE Pay As You Earn ERC Energy Resource Consultants PRT Petroleum Revenue Tax ESOS Executive Share Option Scheme PSC Production Sharing Contract EUETS European Union Emission Trading Scheme PSP Performance Share Plan FEED Front End Engineering and Design SCT Supplementary Corporation Tax FPSO Floating Production Storage and Offtake vessel SIP Share Incentive Plan FRS Financial Reporting Standard SMT Senior Management Team FTSE 100 Equity index whose constituents are the sq km Square kilometres 100 largest UK listed companies by market tcf Trillion cubic feet capitalisation toes Tullow Oil Environmental Standards FTSE 250 Equity index whose constituents are the TRI Total Recordable Incidents next 250 largest UK listed companies after the top 100 TRIFR Total Recordable Incident Frequency Rate GNPC Ghana National Petroleum Corporation TSR Total Shareholder Return Group Company and its subsidiary undertakings UK GAAP UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles H&S Health and Safety VAT Value Added Tax WAEP Weighted Average Exercise Price 136 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts TU017 IBC v5.
qxd:Layout 1 31 3 09 13:26 Page ibc Get more online We are very committed to communicating with all stakeholders.
Our policy is to be open, transparent, uniform and timely.
com Relaunching our website We are undertaking a major upgrade of our corporate website which will go live on a phased basis starting in summer 2009.
Lots of additional features We are incorporating lots of new features including the ability to customise the site for individual users.
More interactivity Enhanced alerting, RSS, glossary, share charting, whats new and search facilities will make the site more user-friendly.
New content There is a new Our people and Our business section, together with additional content across the site and an interactive operations map.
2008 Annual Report 2008 CSR Report 2009 Fact Book We are producing an online version of The 2008 CSR Report will be published We publish a Fact Book twice a year the Annual Report and you can also in May 2009 and a pdf format will be in March and August to coincide available online.
Our new website will download key sections in pdf format.
with the Groups full and half-yearly have a significantly enhanced CSR results.
It contains a lot of additional, http: ara2008.
com section to provide additional information mainly operational, information on how Tullow approaches and to complement the results undertakes its responsibilities announcement and presentation.
Visit the Reports & Presentations Visit the Reports & Presentations section at: section at: www.
com tlw ir E-communications All documents on the website are available without any particular software requirement other than the software which is available on the Groups website.
Paper copies of the 2008 Annual Report and Accounts can be obtained by contacting Computershare Investor Services from the UK on 0870 703 6242, from Ireland on 01 2163744 or from any other country on 44 870 703 6242.
For every shareholder who signs up for electronic communications, a donation is made to the eTree initiative run by Woodland Trust.
You can register for email communication at: www.
com tullowoilplc Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Account s TU017 Cover vAW2.
qxd:13331 Tullow Oil Cov 30 3 09 16:45 Page 1 Tullow Oil plc Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 3rd Floor, Building 11, Chiswick Park, 566 Chiswick High Road London W4 5YS The next phase Tel: 44 20 8996 1000 Fax: 44 20 8994 5332 of growth Email: information@tullowoil.
com This report is produced on material which contains 50% recycled and fide-inked pulp from post consumer waste.
The remaining pulp contains FSC credited material from well-managed forests.
Designed by Black Sun Plc Printed by St Ives Westerham Press
