Group overview Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements Accounting policies Year ended 31 December 2008 a General information c Basis of accounting Tullow Oil Plc is a company incorporated in the United The financial statements have been prepared in Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union and the registered office is given on page 134.
The nature of the therefore the Group financial statements comply with Groups operations and its principal activities are set out Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
in the operations and finance reviews on pages 20 to 43.
The financial statements have been prepared on the b Adoption of new and revised standards historical cost basis, except for derivative financial Two Interpretations issued by the International Financial instruments that have been measured at fair value.
Reporting Interpretations Committee are effective for the The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group current period.
These are: IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury are set out below.
Transactions and IAS 19 The Limit on Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding requirements and their interaction.
The d Basis of consolidation adoption of these Interpretations has not led to any changes The consolidated financial statements incorporate the in the Groups accounting policies.
financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the the following Standards and Interpretations which have not power to govern the financial and operating policies of an been applied in these financial statements were in issue investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
but not yet effective and in some cases have not yet been adopted by the EU.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity IFRS 1 Cost of and investment in a subsidiary, jointly therein.
Minority interests consist of the amount of those IAS 27 controlled entity or associate interests at the date of the original business combination see below and the minoritys share of changes in equity since IFRS 2 Share-based payment Vesting conditions and the date of the combination.
Losses applicable to the minority cancellations amended in excess of the minoritys interest in the subsidiarys equity IFRS 3 Business combinations revised 2008 are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able IFRS 8 Operating segments to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during revised 2008 the year are included in the Group Income Statement from IAS 23 Borrowing cost revised 2007 the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements revised 2008 Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies IAS 32 Puttable financial instruments and obligations used into line with those used by the Group.
IAS 1 arising on liquidation amended All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements are eliminated on consolidation.
IFRIC 15 Agreements for the construction of real estate Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, Improvements to IFRS May 2008 of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the and Interpretations in future periods will have no material acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business impact on the financial statements of the Group except for: combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and additional segment disclosures when IFRS 8 comes into contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the 2009: and acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal treatment of acquisition of subsidiaries when IFRS 3 groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with comes into effect for business combinations for which IFRS 5 non-current assets held for sale and discontinued the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value first annual period beginning on or after 1 July 2009. less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 85 Financial statements Accounting policies continued d Basis of consolidation continued h Foreign currencies The Pound Sterling is the presentation currency of the Joint ventures Group.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial The Group is engaged in oil and gas exploration, development statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign and production through unincorporated joint ventures.
The operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the Group accounts for its share of the results and net assets of balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated these joint ventures as jointly controlled assets.
In addition, at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange where Tullow acts as operator to the joint venture, the gross rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case liabilities and receivables including amounts due to or from the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
non-operating partners of the joint venture are included in Currency translation adjustments arising on the restatement the Group Balance Sheet.
of opening net assets of foreign subsidiaries, together with e Non-current assets held for sale differences between the subsidiaries results translated at Non-current assets or disposal groups classified as held for average rates versus closing rates, are taken directly to reserves.
All resulting exchange differences are classified sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair as equity until disposal of the subsidiary.
On disposal, the value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal cumulative amounts of the exchange differences are groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount recognised as income or expense.
will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal of exchange ruling at the transaction dates.
Monetary assets group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
and liabilities are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate Management must be committed to the sale which should be ruling at the Balance Sheet date, with a corresponding charge expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within or credit to the Income Statement.
However, exchange gains one year from the date of classification.
and losses arising on monetary items receivable from or payable to a foreign operation for which settlement is neither f Revenue planned nor likely to occur, which form part of the net Sales revenue represents the sales value, net of VAT and investment in a foreign operation, are recognised in the overriding royalties, of the Groups share of liftings in the foreign currency translation reserve and recognised in year together with tariff income.
Revenue is recognised profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.
In addition, when goods are delivered and title has passed.
exchange gains and losses arising on long-term foreign currency borrowings which are a hedge against the Revenues received under take-or-pay sales contracts Groups overseas investments, are dealt with in reserves.
in respect of undelivered volumes are accounted for as deferred income.
i Exploration, evaluation and production assets The Group adopts the successful efforts method of accounting Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to for exploration and appraisal costs.
All licence acquisition, the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate exploration and evaluation costs are initially capitalised in applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated cost centres by well, field or exploration area, as appropriate.
future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial Directly attributable administration costs and interest payable asset to that assets net carrying amount.
are capitalised insofar as they relate to specific development activities.
Pre-licence costs are expensed in the period in g Over underlift which they are incurred.
Lifting or offtake arrangements for oil and gas produced in certain of the Groups jointly owned operations are such that These costs are then written off as exploration costs in the each participant may not receive and sell its precise share of Income Statement unless commercial reserves have been the overall production in each period.
The resulting imbalance established or the determination process has not been between cumulative entitlement and cumulative production completed and there are no indications of impairment.
less stock is underlift or overlift.
Underlift and overlift are All field development costs are capitalised as property, plant valued at market value and included within debtors and and equipment.
Property, plant and equipment related to creditors respectively.
Movements during an accounting production activities are amortised in accordance with the period are adjusted through Cost of Sales such that Gross Groups depletion and amortisation accounting policy.
Profit is recognised on an entitlements basis.
The Groups j Commercial reserves share of any physical stock, warehouse stock and materials Commercial reserves are proven and probable oil and gas are accounted for at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
reserves, which are defined as the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological, geophysical and engineering data demonstrate with a specified degree of certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs and which are considered commercially producible.
There should be a 50 per cent statistical probability that the actual quantity of recoverable reserves will be more than the amount estimated as a proven and probable reserves and a 50 per cent statistical probability that it will be less.
86 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Group overview Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements k Depletion and amortisation discovery fields n Finance costs and debt All expenditure carried within each field is amortised from the Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, commencement of production on a unit of production basis, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are which is the ratio of oil and gas production in the period to the assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get estimated quantities of commercial reserves at the end of the ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of period plus the production in the period, generally on a fieldthose assets, until such time as the assets are substantially by-field basis.
Costs used in the unit of production calculation ready for their intended use or sale.
comprise the net book value of capitalised costs plus the Finance costs of debt are allocated to periods over the term estimated future field development costs.
Changes in the of the related debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
estimates of commercial reserves or future field development Arrangement fees and issue costs are deducted from the costs are dealt with prospectively.
debt proceeds on initial recognition of the liability and are Where there has been a change in economic conditions amortised and charged to the Income Statement as finance that indicates a possible impairment in a discovery field, costs over the term of the debt.
the recoverability of the net book value relating to that field o Share issue expenses and share premium account is assessed by comparison with the estimated discounted Costs of share issues are written off against the premium future cash flows based on managements expectations arising on the issues of share capital.
of future oil and gas prices and future costs.
Where there is evidence of economic interdependency between fields, p Taxation such as common infrastructure, the fields are grouped Current and deferred tax, including UK corporation tax and as a single cash generating unit for impairment purposes.
overseas corporation tax, are provided at amounts expected to be paid using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted Any impairment identified is charged to the Income Statement or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred as additional depletion and amortisation.
Where conditions corporation tax is recognised on all temporary differences that giving rise to impairment subsequently reverse, the effect have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date of the impairment charge is also reversed as a credit to the where transactions or events that result in an obligation Income Statement, net of any depreciation that would have to pay more, or right to pay less, tax in the future have been charged since the impairment.
occurred at balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are l Decommissioning recognised only to the extent that it is considered more likely Provision for decommissioning is recognised in full when than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the related facilities are installed.
A corresponding amount the underlying temporary differences can be deducted.
equivalent to the provision is also recognised as part of the Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
cost of the related property, plant and equipment.
The amount Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on recognised is the estimated cost of decommissioning, acquisitions that are categorised as Business Combinations.
discounted to its net present value, and is reassessed each Deferred tax is recognised at acquisition as part of the year in accordance with local conditions and requirements.
assessment of the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired.
Changes in the estimated timing of decommissioning Any deferred tax is charged or credited in the income or decommissioning cost estimates are dealt with statement as the underlying temporary difference is reversed.
prospectively by recording an adjustment to the provision, and a corresponding adjustment to property, plant and Petroleum Revenue Tax PRT is treated as an income tax and equipment.
The unwinding of the discount on the deferred PRT is accounted for under the temporary difference decommissioning provision is included as a finance cost.
Current UK PRT is charged as a tax expense on chargeable field profits included in the Income Statement m Property, plant and equipment and is deductible for UK corporation tax.
Property, plant and equipment is stated in the Balance Sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised q Pensions impairment loss.
Depreciation on property, plant and Contributions to the Groups defined contribution pension equipment other than production assets, is provided at rates schemes are charged to operating profit on an accruals basis.
calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value r Derivative financial instruments of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its economic life of between three and five years.
exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and movements in oil and gas prices.
Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The purpose for which a derivative is used is established at inception.
To qualify for hedge accounting, the derivative must be highly effective in achieving its objective and this effectiveness must be documented at inception and throughout the period of the hedge relationship.
The hedge must be assessed on an ongoing basis and determined to have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which the hedge was designated.
Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 87 Financial statements Accounting policies continued r Derivative financial instruments continued All share-based awards of the Company are equity settled For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as defined by IFRS 2.
The fair value of these awards has been as either fair value hedges, when they hedge the exposure determined at the date of grant of the award allowing for the to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability, effect of any market-based performance conditions.
This fair or cash flow hedges, where they hedge exposure to variability value, adjusted by the Groups estimate of the number of in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular awards that will eventually vest as a result of non-market risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or conditions, is expensed uniformly over the vesting period.
The fair values were calculated using a binomial option In relation to fair value hedges which meet the conditions for pricing model with suitable modifications to allow for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from re-measuring the employee turnover after vesting and early exercise.
Where derivative and the hedged item at fair value is recognised necessary, this model was supplemented with a Monte Carlo immediately in the Income Statement.
Any gain or loss on the model.
The inputs to the models include: the share price at hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted date of grant: exercise price: expected volatility: expected against the carrying amount of the hedged item and dividends: risk free rate of interest: and patterns of exercise recognised in the Income Statement.
For cash flow hedges, the portion of the gains and losses on u Financial assets the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective All financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a hedge is taken to equity and the ineffective portion, as well trade date where the purchase or sale of a financial asset as any change in time value, is recognised in the Income is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the Statement.
The gains and losses taken to equity are investment within the timeframe established by the market subsequently transferred to the Income Statement during concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, plus the period in which the hedged transaction affects the Income transaction costs.
Statement or if the hedge is subsequently deemed to be Financial assets are classified into the following specified ineffective.
A similar treatment applies to foreign currency categories: financial assets at fair value through profit loans which are hedges of the Groups net investment in the or loss FVTPL : held-to-maturity investments: net assets of a foreign operation.
available-for-sale AFS financial assets: and loans and Gains or losses on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and accounting treatment either from inception or during the life purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the of the instrument are taken directly to the Income Statement time of initial recognition.
v Cash and cash equivalents s Leases Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes operating leases and are charged to the Income Statement in value.
on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
w Loans and receivables Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor receivables are measured at amortised cost using the is included in the Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation.
effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a except for short-term receivables when the recognition of constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the interest would be immaterial.
Finance charges are charged directly against income, x Effective interest method unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, The effective interest method is a method of calculating the in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest Groups policy on borrowing costs.
income over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is t Share-based payments the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 including all fees on points paid or received that form an Share-based payments.
In accordance with the transitional integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs provisions of that standard, only those awards that were and other premiums or discounts through the expected life granted after 7 November 2002, and had not vested at of the financial asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
88 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Group overview Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those financial assets classified as at FVTPL.
The Group chooses not to disclose the effective interest rate for debt instruments that are classified as at fair value through profit or loss.
y Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
z Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
aa Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
ab Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Details of the Groups significant accounting judgements and critical accounting estimates are set out in these financial statements and include: Carrying value of intangible exploration and evaluation fixed assets note 9 : Carrying value of property, plant and equipment note 10 : Commercial reserves estimates note 10 : Presumption of going concern note 16 : Derivative financial instruments note 17 : Decommissioning costs note 20 : and Recoverability of deferred tax assets note 20.
Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 89
