Notes to accounts Group continued 31 Acquisitions continued Dascam On 28 November 2008, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Blue Sky Group International Ltd, of which the principal trading entity is Dascam Consulting Dascam located in the United Arab Emirates, for a cash consideration of 19.7 million.
The aggregate net assets acquired and their provisional fair values, based on the Directors initial assessment of net realisable value, together with details of the purchase consideration were as follows: Book value Revaluations Fair value 000 000 000 Intangible assets - 8,584 8,584 Interest in associate 1,986 - 1,986 Property, plant and equipment 98 - 98 Net cash 174 - 174 Receivables 1,738 - 1,738 Payables 1,041 - 1,041 Net assets acquired 2,955 8,584 11,539 Goodwill arising on acquisition 8,179 Purchase consideration, including acquisition costs 19,718 000 Total consideration 19,718 Less deferred consideration 5,865 Cash outflow arising on acquisition 13,853 The profit contribution from Dascam was approximately break-even in the period from date of acquisition to 31 December 2008.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition is attributable to the value of synergies arising from the acquisition, the acquirees assembled workforce and anticipated future profits arising from access to new markets.
Radmon On 12 December 2008, the Group acquired the trade and assets of Radmon for a cash consideration of 4.9 million including costs.
The aggregate net assets acquired and their provisional fair values, based on the Directors initial assessment of net realisable value, together with details of the purchase consideration were as follows: Book value Revaluations Fair value 000 000 000 Intangible assets - 3,836 3,836 Property, plant and equipment 58 - 58 Inventories 1,202 - 1,202 Receivables 298 - 298 Payables 859 - 859 Net assets acquired 699 3,836 4,535 Goodwill arising on acquisition 415 Purchase consideration, including acquisition costs 4,950 000 Total consideration 4,950 Less deferred consideration 4,800 Cash outflow arising on acquisition 150 The profit contribution from Radmon was approximately break-even in the period from date of acquisition to 31 December 2008.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition is attributable to the value of synergies arising from the acquisition and the acquirees assembled workforce.
76 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Notes to accounts Group continued 31 Acquisitions continued Graytronics Ltd On 8 May 2008, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Graytronics Ltd for a cash consideration of 1.7 million including costs.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition amounted to 560,000.
The profit contribution from Graytronics was approximately 0.1 million in the period before a charge of 0.2 million relating to the amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition.
If the above acquisitions had been completed on the first day of the financial year, the Group revenues for the year would have been 572.7 million and the Group would have reported a profit before tax of 1.6 million.
Prior year acquisitions Goodwill and the fair value of assets acquired in respect of prior year acquisitions, have been adjusted as a result of finalising their attributable values.
Accordingly goodwill has been increased by 4.5 million to reflect additional tax liabilities of 2.1 million and additional warranty provisions of 1.8 million at BCF Designs Limited and 0.6 million in respect of additional tax liabilities at Atkins and Partners Limited.
Additionally, goodwill of 1.3 million has been created as a result of contingent consideration becoming payable in respect of Criticom Inc. Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 77 Financials Group Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements A summary of the Groups principal accounting policies, all of which have been applied consistently throughout the current and preceding year, are set out below: Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulations.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations, which have not been applied in these statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IAS 1 revised Presentation of financial statements IAS 23 revised Borrowing costs IAS 27 amended Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements IFRS 3 revised Business combinations IFRS 8 Operating segments IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes IFRIC 15 Agreements for the construction of real estate IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group, except for additional disclosures when the relevant standards come into effect.
The consolidated financial information has been prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivatives and assets held for sale which are measured at fair value.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial information includes the results, cash flows and assets and liabilities of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc the Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and will not be included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
78 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements continued Investments in associates An associate is an entity over which the group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest in that associate which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the associate are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
Sales of goods are normally recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.
Revenue from long-term contracts is recognised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy on long-term contracts see accounting policy Long-term contracts.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Long-term contracts Where the outcome of a long-term contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured by the proportion that contract costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have been agreed with the customer.
Where the outcome of a long-term contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred that it is probable will be recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the local currency at the actual exchange rates at the date of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the income statement.
The trading results and cash flows of overseas undertakings are translated into sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, using the average rates of exchange during the relevant financial period.
The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at the rates ruling at the year-end.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the opening balance sheets and results are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups hedging and translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments on the acquisition of foreign entities are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
The Group has elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs as sterling denominated assets and liabilities.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
Government grants Government grants are recognised in the income statement so as to match them with the expenditure towards which they are intended to contribute, to the extent that the conditions for receipt have been met and there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 79 Financials Group Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements continued Retirement benefit costs The Group provides pensions to its employees and Directors through defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
The schemes are funded and their assets are held independently of the Group by trustees.
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
The actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the income statement and presented in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Payments to defined contribution retirement schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Research and development Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Any internally generated intangible asset arising from development activities is recognised only if an asset is created that can be identified, it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefit and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Internally generated assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives.
Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Other intangible assets Costs associated with producing or maintaining computer software programmes for sale are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs that are directly associated with the development of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, that will generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year and that can be measured reliably, are recognised as intangible assets.
Capitalised software development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is provided on a straight-line basis over the useful life of the related asset.
Acquired computer software licenses for use within the Group are capitalised as intangible assets on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
Patents and trademarks are stated initially at historical cost.
Patents and trademarks have definite useful lives and are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible assets arising from a business combination whose fair value can be reliably measured are separated from goodwill and amortised on a straight line basis over their remaining useful lives.
Impairment At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing the value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
80 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements continued Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is shown at original historical cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life as follows: Freehold buildings 40 to 50 years Short leasehold improvements over remaining period of lease Plant and machinery 3 to 20 years Freehold land and assets under the course of construction are not depreciated.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Rentals under operating leases, where the Group acts as either lessee or lessor, are charged on a straight line basis over the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such a basis.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost determined on a first-in, first-out basis and including an appropriate proportion of overheads incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition and net realisable value.
Provision is made for any obsolete, slow moving or defective items.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are measured at fair value.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in profit or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in-hand, call deposits and bank overdrafts, where there is right of set off.
Bank overdrafts are presented as current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances.
Assets held for sale Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Trade payables Trade payables are stated at their fair value.
Bank loans and overdrafts Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs are accounted for on an accruals basis in profit or loss using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 81 Financials Group Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements continued Share-based payments The Group issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of an option pricing model.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and where it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provision is made for the anticipated cost of repair and rectification of products under warranty, based on known exposures and historical occurrences.
Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated to affected parties.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax.
The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities.
Derivative financial instruments Ultra uses derivative financial instruments, principally forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps, to reduce its exposure to exchange rate and interest rate movements.
Ultra does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities and measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date.
Changes in their fair values are recognised in the income statement and this is likely to cause volatility in situations where the carrying value of the hedged item is not adjusted to reflect fair value changes arising from the hedged risk.
Provided the conditions specified by IAS 39 are met, hedge accounting may be used to mitigate this income statement volatility.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Hedge accounting will not generally be applied to transactional hedging relationships, such as hedges of forecast or committed transactions.
However, hedge accounting will be applied to translational hedging relationships where it is permissible under IAS 39.
When hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging relationships will be classified as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges.
