Statement of accounting policies for the Company accounts continued Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the local currency at the actual exchange rates at the date of the transactions or, where appropriate, at the rate of exchange in a related forward exchange contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date or, where appropriate, at the rate of exchange in a related forward exchange contract.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the profit and loss account.
Share-based payments The Company issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of an option pricing model, using the assumptions disclosed within the Group accounts in note 26.
Bank loans and overdrafts Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs are accounted for on an accruals basis in profit or loss using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
2 Cash generated by operations, less net capital expenditure, R&D and LTIP share purchases.
3 Free cash flow before dividends, acquisitions and financing has been adjusted to include the purchase of Long-Term Incentive Plan shares, which are included in financing activities.
4 Bank overdrafts and loans less cash and cash equivalents.
5 Before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition and fair value movement on derivative financial instruments.
6 Represents dividends per share on a dividends declared basis.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 95 Shareholders 96 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
