Report of the Directors About Unilever continued In 2008, we combined all global categories and brands across Unilevers products are generally sold through our own sales force nutrition, hygiene and personal care into one global category as well as through independent brokers, agents and distributors organisation.
The global category team aims to develop winning to chain, wholesale, co-operative and independent grocery category and brand strategies, to create exciting new brand accounts, food service distributors and institutions.
Products are communication, product innovation and renovation, and to physically distributed through a network of distribution centres, provide strategic direction for the supply chain.
The category team satellite warehouses, company-operated and public storage is responsible for medium-term value creation, considering items facilities, depots and other facilities.
such as market share, category growth, brand health and innovation.
Our products are sold in over 150 countries around the world.
In many countries we manufacture the products that we sell, while Our functional teams, notably Finance and Human Resources, are we also export products to countries where we do not have responsible for providing business partnering, strategic support manufacturing operations.
The manufacturing network is and competitive services across the global business.
These generally determined by an optimised regional sourcing strategy functions are organised around the same principles of business which takes account of requirements for innovation, quality, partners, shared services and expertise teams.
Certain of our businesses, such as ice cream, are subject to significant seasonal uctuations in sales.
The top management team, called the Unilever Executive UEx, However, Unilever operates globally in many different markets consists of the CEO with seven direct reports, including three and product categories, and no individual element of seasonality regional Presidents for Western Europe, the Americas and Asia is likely to be material to the results of the Group as a whole.
Africa CEE, one global President for the global categories, and three functional heads namely the CFO, Chief HR officer and Our products use a wide variety of raw and packaging materials Chief R&D officer.
which we source internationally, and which may be subject to price volatility.
In 2008 we saw unprecedented price increases in During 2008, Paul Polman was appointed CEO, replacing Patrick many of our materials, notably in edible oils, which are used in Cescau with effect from 1 January 2009, and Genevive Berger many food products as well as some personal care products, and joined the UEx team as Chief R&D officer, having previously been a of crude oil, which is relevant to our transport costs but also used Non-Executive Director.
as an input for certain petrochemicals and packaging materials.
Operating environment Transactions with related parties are conducted in accordance In our markets, we are competing with a diverse set of with agreed transfer pricing policies and include sales to joint competitors.
Some of these competitors operate on an ventures and associates.
Other than those disclosed in this report, international scale like ourselves, while others have a more there were no related party transactions that were material to the regional or local focus.
Group or to the related parties concerned that are required to be reported in 2008 or the two preceding years.
We aim to focus on providing consumers with added-value products that bring Vitality to Life, in several important ways: For more information about related party transactions please refer also to note 30 on page 135. creating and nurturing attractive brands that are trusted and preferred by consumers and which seek to address consumer Resources needs and aspirations better than other brands: developing and rolling out new and better products and Our brands concepts across our regions and product categories, supported We have a strong and well differentiated portfolio of global and by innovative communication campaigns: and local brands, which are positioned to meet the needs and optimising and improving the productivity and efficiency of our aspirations of our consumers across a variety of price points, cost and asset base whilst ensuring a consistent high quality of segments and channels, allowing us to compete effectively in our our products.
Around 70% of our turnover is in countries and categories where In 2008 thirteen of our brands had global turnover of 1 billion we have a leadership position, as measured by the value of or more.
These were Knorr, Hellmanns, Lipton, Becel Flora turnover.
We hold the global number 1 position in savoury, Healthy Heart, Rama Blue Band Family Goodness, Walls Algida spreads, dressings, tea, ice cream, deodorants and mass skin care.
Heartbrand, Omo, Surf, Dove, Lux, Rexona including Sure and We hold the global number 2 position in laundry detergents and Degree, Axe Lynx and Sunsilk including Seda and Sedal.
We have strong local positions in household care and oral care.
We manage our brands under the following four category headings: savoury, dressings and spreads: ice cream and beverages: personal care: and home care.
22 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors About Unilever continued Savoury, dressings and spreads includes soups, bouillons, sauces, We believe in everyones ability to develop and grow and that life snacks, mayonnaise, salad dressings, margarines, spreads and at work should be a continuous learning journey and that we all cooking products such as liquid margarines, and some frozen have an equal right to take advantage of the opportunity to foods.
Our key brands here are Knorr, Hellmanns, Becel Flora develop ourselves.
In our view seizing the opportunity to make a Healthy Heart, Rama Blue Band Family Goodness, Calv, Wishdifference is more important than simply progressing up the Bone, Amora, Rag and Bertolli.
Ice cream and beverages includes ice cream sold under the Personal vitality is also something we feel strongly about and we international Heartbrand, including Cornetto, Magnum, Carte have programmes and activities in place which are designed to dOr and Solero, Walls, Kibon, Algida and Ola.
Our portfolio also help everyone in the business take care of themselves and includes Ben & Jerrys, Breyers, Klondike and Popsicle.
This encourage a better quality of life.
By creating a vitalising work category also includes tea-based beverages, where our principal experience and environment for our people we help them feel brands are Lipton, Brooke Bond and PG tips, as well as weight energised and able to perform to the very best of their ability.
management products, principally Slim Fast, and nutritionally enhanced products sold in developing markets, including We have created an inclusive environment where people can Annapurna and AdeS.
bring their whole self to work: they do not have to change to t in.
We want people to be themselves.
This drives a higher level of Within these groups, we also include sales of Unilever engagement and, as a direct result, improves all-round Foodsolutions, which is a global food service business providing performance.
solutions for professional chefs and caterers.
The fact that everyone is unique and has different interests In personal care, six global brands are the core of our business in outside of the ofce has a positive impact on the way we work the mass skin care, daily hair care and deodorants product areas and on our culture.
Understanding other people's perspectives Dove, Lux, Rexona including Sure and Degree, Sunsilk including and learning from them adds variety and enriches what we do.
Seda Sedal, Axe Lynx and Ponds.
Other important brands include Suave, Clear, Lifebuoy and Vaseline, together with Signal and On page 13 we have given some examples of the ways in which Close Up in oral care.
we promote vitality in our people and in our ways of working.
Our home care ranges include laundry products, such as tablets, Our total employee numbers over the last five years were as traditional powders and liquids for washing clothing by hand or follows: machine.
Tailored products including soap bars are available for Year end in thousands 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 lower-income consumers.
Our brands include Omo Dirt is Good platform, Surf, Comfort, Radiant and Skip.
Our household care Western Europe 30 34 36 41 44 The Americas 42 43 45 47 47 products include surface cleaners and bleach, sold under the Cif, Asia Africa CEE 102 97 98 118 132 Domestos and Sun Sunlight brands.
Total 174 174 179 206 223 Please refer also to pages 9 to 11 where we give many examples of the ways in which our brand portfolio is being actively Numbers for prior years have been restated following the change managed in support of our Vitality agenda.
in our regional organisation during 2008.
Our employees Diversity We believe in providing an environment where individuals can Diversity in Unilever is about inclusion, embracing differences, achieve their goals, both professionally and personally.
In order to creating possibilities and growing together for better business attract and retain the best people, we recognise the need to offer performance.
We embrace diversity in our workforce: this means them ways to take advantage of opportunities, room to succeed giving full and fair consideration to all applicants and continuing and grow, and more directions in which to pursue their careers.
development to all employees regardless of gender, nationality, race, creed, disability, style or sexuality.
Diversity plays a vital role Our success depends on innovation, so we do everything we can in ensuring we understand consumers needs.
to ensure that the enterprising people we employ have the freedom to act.
We give them all the support and encouragement The commitment to diversity is set right at the top of our they need.
At the same time, we empower them to make tough business.
It is driven by the Global Diversity Board, chaired decisions, implement new ideas and use their initiative.
As a result throughout 2008 by former Group Chief Executive Patrick our people have a passion for achievement, strive for outstanding Cescau, who has emphasised that diversity is critical to our results and are determined to get things done.
business competitiveness and long-term sustainability.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23
