Financial statements Statement of Directors responsibilities Annual accounts Directors responsibility statement The Directors are required by Title 9, Book 2 of the Civil Code in Each of the Directors confirms that, to the best of his or her the Netherlands and the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 knowledge: to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Unilever Group, and the NV the financial statements which have been prepared in and PLC entities as at the end of the financial year and of the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as profit or loss and cash ows for that year.
adopted by the EU and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board in the case of the consolidated The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts, the Group accounts and United Kingdom accounting standards in the and the NV and PLC entities have used the most appropriate case of the PLC parent company accounts and United Kingdom accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by accounting standards and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all Code in the case of the NV parent company accounts, give a International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board in profit or loss of the Group and the NV and PLC entities taken the case of the consolidated accounts and United Kingdom as a whole: and accounting standards in the case of the parent company accounts the Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and the NV and the PLC entities taken as a The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that NV and PLC whole, together with a description of the principal risks and keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy uncertainties they face.
their financial position and which enable the Directors to ensure that the accounts comply with the relevant legislation.
They also The Directors and their functions are listed on pages 18 and 19. have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group, Going concern and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The activities of the Group, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set This statement, which should be read in conjunction with the out on pages 1 to 17 and 20 to 34.
The financial position of the Auditors report, is made with a view to distinguishing for Group, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors are described in the Financial Review on pages 35 to 43.
In and of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
addition, we describe in note 17 on pages 108 to 113 the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: A copy of the financial statements of the Unilever Group is its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial placed on our website at www.
com investorrelations The instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit and maintenance and integrity of the website are the responsibility of liquidity risk.
the Directors, and the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters.
Accordingly, the auditors The Group has considerable financial resources together with accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred established business relationships with many customers and to the financial statements since they were initially placed on the suppliers in countries throughout the world.
Legislation in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its governing the preparation and dissemination of financial business risks successfully despite the current uncertain outlook.
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable UK law sets out additional responsibilities for the Directors of expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in PLC regarding disclosure of information to auditors.
Disclosure operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they in respect of these responsibilities is made on page 151. continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Internal and disclosure controls and procedures Please refer to pages 25 to 27 for a discussion of Unilevers principal risk factors and to page 28 for commentary on the Groups approach to risk management and control.
78 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008
