4 5 Operational overview Power: CES CES REVENUE GROWTH TOTAL REVENUE 2007 22.8 MILLION 43% 32.7m AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2008 Other information 4 5 Case study AVEVA Power GMT 12:00 1.00 AVEVA has a long history in the power industry One of AVEVAs longest-standing power industry and plays a major role in supporting the global customers, EDF is the worlds largest operator of investment in generating capacity.
Today they are using AVEVA solutions is currently being used at over 200 customer sites in on a new nuclear installation at Flamanville, Northern more than 30 countries, on power projects ranging France, scheduled to begin supplying the grid in 2012. from life extensions of conventional plant to the Meanwhile, they continue to use AVEVA PDMS to operate worlds first third generation nuclear plant.
and maintain older generation plant, using data laid down as long as 25 years ago.
Mirroring Chinas rapid industrialisation, AVEVA has become the dominant engineering software AVEVA solutions protect our customers valuable supplier to its rapidly growing power industry, engineering data for the entire life of a project serving 21 of the 26 Class A Electric Power Design a vital consideration in the nuclear power industry.
Institutes, all three national boiler suppliers and much of the Chinese nuclear industry.
LOCATION: France CLIENT: EDF AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2008 Other information 6 7 Operational overview continued Oil and Gas: ASIA PACIFIC ASIA PACIFIC REVENUE GROWTH TOTAL REVENUE 2007 36.9 MILLION 38% 50.8m AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2008 Other information 6 7 Case study AVEVA Oil and Gas GMT 12:00 7.00 Oil and Gas projects are continually increasing centres, with fabrication and construction completed in size and complexity.
This demands not only the somewhere entirely different.
WorleyParsons use most powerful engineering IT and efficient working a standard PDMS project template to achieve rapid methods but also, increasingly, the development start-up, maximum standardisation and the ability of collaborative, multi-site projects.
to run projects across multiple locations.
McPherson continued, As a result, we can deploy extremely quickly, WorleyParsons is a global provider of professional move people between projects more effectively and services to the energy, resource and process reduce levels of administration.
A new project can be industries.
They make extensive use of AVEVA set up in less than two days at any of our ofces.
PDMS and AVEVA Global, the only proven solutions This has resulted in considerable financial savings.
AVEVA solutions provide the most productive platform Grant McPherson, Piping Design Department Head, at for oil and gas projects of all sizes, from the biggest WorleyParsons explained, It is now common practice new installations to the smallest upgrades.
for us to perform engineering and design in multiple LOCATION: Malaysia CLIENT: WorleyParsons AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2008 Other information 8 9 Operational overview continued Marine: South Korea: supporting the future by working closely with 12 educational institutions AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2008 Other information 8 9 Case study AVEVA Marine GMT 12:00 8.00 With the launch of AVEVA Marine 12 series products, they launched the 7,650 tonne AEGIS destroyer AVEVA provides the worlds most powerful engineering Sejongdaewang-Ham Sejong the Great, designed IT environment for creating vessels and oating and built using AVEVA Marine solutions.
structures of any type, size or complexity.
Thanks to the efficiencies provided by AVEVA To meet booming world demand, shipbuilders in the Marines single design database system and Asia Pacic region are vigorously ramping up their datacentric environment, HHI completed this capacities.
They increasingly invest in AVEVA Marine state-of-the-art warship in 30 months.
All Korean solutions to maximise their productivity.
Hyundai naval shipbuilders now subscribe to AVEVA Marine Heavy Industries HHI in South Korea is the most solutions: HHI itself has worked closely with AVEVA productive shipbuilder in this dynamic industry, in the final development and user testing of the with around 15% market share.
In May 2007 AVEVA Marine software suite.
LOCATION: South Korea CLIENT: Hyundai Heavy Industries AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2008 Other information
