Shareholder information Shareholder information continued Nature of the trading market The principal trading markets upon which Unilever shares are NV and PLC are separate companies with separate stock exchange listed are Euronext Amsterdam for NV depositary receipts of listings and different shareholders.
Shareholders cannot convert ordinary and preference shares and the London Stock Exchange or exchange the shares of one for shares of the other and the for PLC ordinary shares.
NV ordinary shares mainly trade in the relative share prices on the various markets can, and do, form of depositary receipts for shares.
Each NV ordinary share now represents the same underlying economic interest in the Unilever Group as each PLC In the United States, NV New York Registry Shares and PLC ordinary share save for exchange rate uctuations.
American Depositary Receipts are traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
Citibank, N. A. acts for NV and PLC as issuer, transfer If you are a shareholder of NV, you have an interest in a Dutch agent and, in respect of the PLC American Depositary Receipts, legal entity, your dividends will be paid in euros converted into depositary.
US dollars if you have shares registered in the United States and you may be subject to tax in the Netherlands.
If you are a There have not been any significant trading suspensions in the shareholder of PLC, your interest is in a UK legal entity, your past three years.
dividends will be paid in sterling converted into US dollars if you have American Depositary Receipts and you may be subject to At 27 February 2009 there were 5 976 registered holders of NV UK tax.
Nevertheless, the Equalisation Agreement means that as New York Registry Shares and 846 registered holders of PLC a shareholder of either company you effectively have an interest American Depositary Receipts in the United States.
We estimate in the whole of Unilever.
You have largely equal rights over our that approximately 17% of NVs ordinary shares were held in the combined net profit and capital reserves as shown in the United States approximately 18% in 2007, while most holders consolidated accounts.
See Equalisation Agreement on pages 51 of PLC ordinary shares are registered in the United Kingdom and 52. approximately 99% in 2008 and in 2007.
As announced on 5 February 2009, at the 2009 AGMs and at separate Meetings of Ordinary Shareholders we will be proposing resolutions to authorise the Directors to modify the Equalisation Agreement to facilitate the payment of quarterly dividends from 2010 onwards.
This will allow us to change to a simpler and more transparent dividend practice for the Unilever Group.
These changes will result in more frequent payments to shareholders, and better align with the cash ow generation of the business.
The high and low trading prices for the separate stock exchange listings are shown in the tables on the following page.
Our stock prices uctuate based on market and other factors.
See Outlook and risks on pages 25 to 28.
156 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008
