indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions Statement of dIrectorS reSponSIBIlItIeS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The Directors have elected to prepare the parent company Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the financial financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom statements in accordance with applicable law and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom regulations.
Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In statements for each financial year.
The Directors are preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group required to: financial statements under IFRSs IFRSs as adopted by the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them European Union.
The Group financial statements are also consistently: required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
prudent: and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS have been followed, subject to any material departures financial statements present fairly for each financial year disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for the financial position of the Company and enable them to assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the ensure that the parent company financial statements International Accounting Standards Boards Framework comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also for the preparation and presentation of financial responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention presentation will be achieved by compliance with all and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
However, Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and present information, including accounting policies, in a integrity of the corporate and financial information manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable included on the Companys website.
Legislation in and understandable information: and the United Kingdom governing the preparation and provide additional disclosures when compliance with dissemination of financial statements may differ from the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to legislation in other jurisdictions.
enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC 94 ANNUAL REPORT 2008
