Directors Remuneration Report Continued Provided the underlying TSR target has been attained, the number of shares which may be released to a participant, as a percentage of the number of shares provisionally awarded, is as follows: Performance Level Attained Target Stretch Exceptional % of attributable shares which may be released 50 100 150 Performance will be measured in respect of not more than four financial years starting on 1 January 2008 and ending on 31 December 2011.
The Committee may decide to terminate the LTIP 2008 on 31 December 2010 provided that a minimum level of TSR growth of 20% has been achieved and that the attained level of performance in respect of one of the two additional performance measures referred to above is not less than Stretch.
Participants are selected at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Additional participants may be selected at any time before the end of the performance period.
The Remuneration Committee has classified participants who are Executive Directors or senior managers into tiers and the maximum number of shares which may be provisionally awarded to a participant in each tier is as follows: Maximum Number of Shares Level of Participation Provisionally Awarded Tier 1 700,000 Tier 2 500,000 Tier 3 250,000 Tier 4 90,000 The following provisional allocations were made to the Executive Directors on 13 June 2008: Ordinary Shares Mike Wagstaff 700,000 Jon Murphy 500,000 Peter Turner 500,000 Rod Begbie 500,000 Allocations have been made to senior managers ranging from 65,000 to 375,000 ordinary shares.
A pool of up to 250,000 shares has been retained to enable the Committee to make provisional share awards to an employee who is neither an Executive Director nor a senior manager.
This pool of shares may be used to reward selected individuals who do not fall within the standard eligibility criteria for inclusion within the LTIP 2008 but who, in the opinion of the Committee, make a significant contribution during the period of the LTIP 2008.
Provisional share awards are neither transferable nor assignable and any benefits arising from a provisional share award will not form part of a participants pensionable emoluments.
The Remuneration Committee will assess the Companys performance as soon as practicable after the end of the performance period.
If performance in respect of any of the additional performance measures falls below Target, none of the shares attributable to that measure may be released.
The Venture Production Company Limited Unapproved Share Option Plan No options were awarded to the Executive Directors under this plan in 2008.
The Venture Production plc 2002 Employee Share Option Scheme The scheme has both HMRC approved and unapproved sections.
Options may be granted to employees selected at the discretion of the Committee.
The option exercise price must be not less than the market value of a share in the Company at or around the date of grant.
No option may be exercised more than ten years after the date of grant.
Grants of approved options are limited to 30,000 worth of ordinary shares per employee, calculated by reference to the market value of a share at the date of grant.
Grants of unapproved options are limited such that no individual may be granted an unapproved option if the aggregate market value of the shares subject to that option and all other options granted to him in the preceding 12 months pursuant to share incentive schemes operated by the Company, would exceed 400% of his basic annual remuneration at the date of grant.
No options were awarded to the Executive Directors under this plan in 2008.
Share Acquisitions The Company has power to issue shares in connection with share incentive plans save the annual bonus plan within the limits contained in guidelines published by the Association of British Insurers.
However, the Companys ongoing policy is to fund the trustees of the Companys Employee Benefit Trust EBT to make monthly market purchases of shares in order to satisfy the requirements of the various share-based incentive schemes operated by the Company.
This policy is reviewed regularly.
Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors Remuneration for the services of Non-Executive Directors is set by reference to practice in comparable companies.
Fees payable to individual Directors reflect the time commitment each Director is expected to make to the Company, bearing in mind any representation on, or chairmanship of, Board Committees.
52 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
