OUR ACCOUNTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 1.1 BASIS OF ACCOUNTING 2.3 PENSION COSTS The Company-only financial statements are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and under the historical cost The Company participates in a UK-wide Group pension plan providing benefits based on final pensionable salary.
The assets of convention and in accordance with UK GAAP.
the plan are held separately from those of the Company in an independently administered fund.
The Company is unable to The Companys results are included in the consolidated financial statements of Cookson Group plc, a company registered in identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the plan on a consistent and reasonable basis and therefore, as the United Kingdom.
The Company is exempt under the terms of FRS 8 from disclosing related party transactions with entities required by FRS 17, Retirement Benefits, accounts for the plan as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
As a result, the amount that are part of the Cookson Group plc group.
charged to the profit and loss account represents the contributions payable to the plan for the year.
A separate Company-only profit and loss account has not been presented, as permitted by Section 230 4 of the Companies The Company also participates in a UK-wide Group defined contribution pension plan.
The assets of the plan are held Act 1985. separately from those of the Company in an independently administered fund.
The amount charged to the profit and loss account represents the contributions payable to the plan for the year.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and 1.2 BASIS FOR PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ON A GOING CONCERN BASIS contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Information on the business environment in which the Group operates, including the factors that are likely to impact the future 2.4 POST-RETIREMENT PLANS OTHER THAN PENSION PLANS prospects of the Group, are included in the Chief Executives Review on pages 10 and 11 and the Operating Review on pages 12 to 21.
The principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces throughout its global operations are included in the Corporate The Company operates a post-retirement healthcare benefits plan.
The costs of providing the benefits under this plan are not Governance Report on pages 32 to 39.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and debt facilities are funded and the amount recognised in the balance sheet is based upon independent actuarial valuations, using the projected unit described in the Financial Review on pages 22 to 27.
In addition, notes 4 and 37 to the consolidated financial statements set out method.
the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: financial risks: financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit, market both currency and interest rate-related and liquidity risk.
Further details of the 2.5 FOREIGN CURRENCIES Groups cash balances and borrowings are included in notes 20 and 36 to the consolidated financial statements.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
The Group has two committed debt facilities, approximately 680m of syndicated bank facilities and approximately 250m Exchange differences arising from the translation of loans to overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures, foreign currency of US Private Placement loan notes.
These facilities, which together total approximately 930m, have no significant debt borrowings, trading and other items are taken to profit or loss.
maturities in 2009, with the principal maturities due in 2011 and 2012, and contain a number of financial covenants with which the Group is required to comply.
In March 2009, the Group completed a rights issue which raised proceeds net of expenses of 2.6 BORROWING COSTS 241m which were used to repay gross borrowings.
This rights issue significantly strengthens the Groups financial position.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges and direct The Directors have prepared cash flow forecasts for the Group for a period in excess of twelve months from the date of issue costs are accounted for on an accruals basis in the profit and loss account using the effective interest rate method.
approval of these consolidated financial statements.
These forecasts reflect an assessment of current end-market conditions, their impact on the Groups future trading performance and the actions taken by management in response to the difficult market 2.7 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES conditions.
The forecasts completed on this basis show that the Group will be able to operate within the current committed debt Shares in subsidiaries are stated at cost, together with long-term loans that are stated at amortised cost, less any impairment in facilities and show continued compliance with the financial covenants.
In addition, management has considered various value.
mitigating actions that could be taken in the event that end-market conditions are worse than their current assessment.
Such measures include further reductions in costs, further reductions in capital expenditure and further reductions in those items of 2.8 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS working capital within managements control.
On the basis of the exercise as described above and the available committed debt facilities, the Directors have a reasonable The Company uses derivative financial instruments in the form of forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps to expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable manage the effects of its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates on its borrowings.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt a going concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group and the its treasury policy, the Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
The method of recognising the gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The fair value of forward foreign currency contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of The following principal accounting policies have been applied consistently when dealing with all items which are material in interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Company would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet relation to the Company-only financial statements.
date, taking into account current interest rates and the creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
2.1 CURRENT AND DEFERRED TAXATION 2.9 PROVISIONS Both current and deferred tax are calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the balance sheet date.
Company will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure Current tax payable is based on the taxable result for the year.
Deferred taxation is recognised, without discounting, in respect required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
of all timing differences that have originated, but not reversed, at the balance sheet date, with the exception that deferred taxation assets are only recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable future profits from which the reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Provision is made for the tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable.
2.2 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Company operates equity-settled share-based payment arrangements for employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date takes account of the effect of marketbased conditions, such as the Total Shareholder Return target upon which vesting for some of the awards is conditional, and is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity.
The cumulative expense recognised is adjusted for the best estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and for the effect of other non market-based vesting conditions, such as growth in headline earnings per share, which are not included in the fair value determined at the date of grant.
For grants with market-based conditions attaching to them, fair value is measured using a form of stochastic option pricing model.
For all other grants, fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes model.
Cookson Group plc 112 Annual Report 2008 Cookson Group plc 113 Annual Report 2008
