64 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the sixteenth Annual General Meeting of Victrex plc the Company will be held at 11.00am on 10 February 2009, at the London Chamber of Commerce, Thames Suite, 33 Queen Street, London, EC4R 1AP, to transact the following business: Ordinary Business 1.
To approve the Report on Directors Remuneration for the year ended 30 September 2008.
To receive the Companys Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2008, together with the reports of the Directors and the Auditor.
To approve the payment of a final dividend of 13.1p per share on the Companys ordinary shares of 1p in respect of the year ended 30 September 2008.
To re-elect Mr P J M fide Smedt who, having been appointed as a Director after the last Annual General Meeting of the Company, retires and offers himself for re-election.
To re-elect Mr L C Pentz who, having been appointed as a Director after the last Annual General Meeting of the Company, retires and offers himself for re-election.
To re-elect Dr T J Walker, who retires by rotation.
To re-elect Mr G F B Kerr, who retires by rotation.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, and subject in the case of Resolution 10 to the passing of Resolution 9 pass the following resolutions, which in the case of Resolutions 9 and 13 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and in the case of Resolutions 10 to 12 will be proposed as Special Resolutions: 9.
That the Directors of the Company be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in substitution for all subsisting authorities to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 271,029, which authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, 10 February 2010 and provided further that the Company may before such expiry make any offers or agreements which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry.
That the Directors of the Company be and are hereby empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 of said Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred upon the Directors in accordance with the previous resolution as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of the holders of ordinary shares notwithstanding that, by reason of such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or desirable to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange, in any territory, the equity securities to be issued are not offered to all such holders in proportion to the number of ordinary shares held by each of them and, b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to paragraph a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 41,448: and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on 10 February 2010, save that the Company may before such expiry make any offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry.
Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 65 11.
That the Directors of the Company be authorised generally and unconditionally to exercise all powers of the Company to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of its ordinary shares of 1p each provided that: a the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be acquired is 8,289,709: b the minimum price which may be paid for any such ordinary share is 1p and, c the maximum price which may be paid for any such ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotation for an ordinary share according to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the purchase is contracted to take place: and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on 10 February 2010 but a contract of purchase may be made before such expiry which will or may be executed wholly or partly thereafter and a purchase of shares may be made in pursuance of any such contract.
That the rules of the Victrex 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan the 2009 LTIP referred to in the Chairmans letter to shareholders dated 15 December 2008 which accompanies this Annual Report and are produced in draft to this meeting and, for the purposes of identification, initialled by the Chairman, be approved and the Directors be authorised to: a make such modifications to the 2009 LTIP as they may consider appropriate to take account of the requirements of best practice and for the implementation of the 2009 LTIP and to adopt the 2009 LTIP as so modified and to do all such other acts and things as they may consider appropriate to implement the 2009 LTIP and, b establish further plans based on the 2009 LTIP but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws in overseas territories, provided that any shares made available under such further plans are treated as counting against the limits on individual or overall participation in the 2009 LTIP.
That the Articles of Association produced to the Meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the Meeting for the purpose of identification be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
By order of the Board M W Peacock Company Secretary 15 December 2008 66 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED Notes: 1.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this Annual Report.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must be lodged with the Companys Registrars, Equiniti, not less than 48 hours before the start of the Annual General Meeting or any adjournment thereof.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction as described in paragraph 9 below will not prevent a shareholder attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 6pm on Sunday 8 February 2009 or, in the event of any adjournment, 48 hours before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
As at 12 December 2008 being the last business day prior to the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 82,897,093 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 12 December 2008 are 82,897,093.
There are no shares in treasury.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent Equiniti ID RA19 by 11am on Sunday 8 February 2009.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers, should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 67 12.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the Meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the Meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the Meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the Meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company from the date of this notice until the time of the Annual General Meeting and at the Annual General Meeting location from 15 minutes before the Annual General Meeting until it ends: the executive Directors service contracts: letters of appointment of the non-executive Directors: deeds of indemnity in favour of the Directors: the proposed new Articles of Association of the Company and a copy of the existing Articles of Association and, the proposed 2009 LTIP.
EXPLANATORY NOTES Ordinary Business Resolution 1 Approval of the Report on Directors Remuneration This resolution is proposed to approve the Report on Directors Remuneration as set out on pages 23 to 28.
Resolution 2 Annual Report and Accounts The Directors are under a duty in relation to each financial year to lay the Accounts and Reports of the Directors and Auditor before the Company in general meeting, giving shareholders the opportunity to ask questions on the contents.
Resolution 3 Declaration of dividend A final dividend of 13.1p per ordinary share payable on 27 February 2009 has been recommended by the Directors for the year ended 30 September 2008.
In accordance with the requirements of HM Revenue & Customs, all dividends are declared and paid net of income tax at the standard rate.
Resolutions 4, 5, 6 and 7 Re-election of Directors In accordance with the Articles of Association Mr P J M fide Smedt and Mr L C Pentz who were appointed as Directors after the last Annual General Meeting of the Company are required to retire as Directors.
They will, however, seek re-election by the shareholders.
In addition Dr T J Walker and Mr G F B Kerr will retire by rotation as Directors and will seek re-election by the shareholders in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company.
Biographical details of Directors seeking re-election are set out on page 16.
With regard to the non-executive Directors seeking re-election, the Board considers that Patrick fide Smedt, Lawrence Pentz and Giles Kerr have added breadth and perspective to the Boards deliberations.
Specifically, Patrick fide Smedt and Lawrence Pentz each bring a breadth of international and industrial experience, with knowledge of market and geographical development.
Giles Kerr brings a wide range of recent and relevant financial experience to his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Resolution 8 Re-appointment of auditor auditors remuneration This resolution proposes the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company and authorises the Directors to determine their remuneration.
68 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED Special Business Resolution 9 Authority to allot shares The authority of shareholders is required to enable Directors to allot shares.
Accordingly, in line with the Companys usual procedure, which is also standard practice amongst other public companies, this resolution seeks authority for the Directors to issue shares within the limits of the existing authorised share capital until the conclusion of next years Annual General Meeting of the Company or 10 February 2010, if sooner.
The resolution will provide for the Directors to be able to allot shares up to a nominal amount of 271,029.
This represents less than one third of the issued share capital plus the number of shares that the Company may be obliged to allot under its share option schemes.
With the exception of shares to be issued in respect of share options exercised, the Directors have no current intention of exercising this authority.
Resolution 10 Permission to allot a limited number of shares other than to existing shareholders When shares are issued for cash, they normally have to be offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their current shareholding.
This resolution will enable the Directors to allot for cash up to a nominal amount of 41,448, representing approximately 5% of the current issued ordinary share capital, other than to existing shareholders in order to take advantage of these opportunities as and when they arise.
The Board confirms its intention that not more than 7.5% of the issued ordinary share capital will be allotted on a non pre-emptive basis in any rolling three year period, in compliance with the guidelines issued by investors bodies.
The authority will lapse at the earlier of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 10 February 2010, if sooner.
Resolution 11 Authority to purchase own shares In certain circumstances, it might be advantageous to the Company to purchase its own shares.
Resolution 11 specifies the maximum number of shares which may be acquired less than 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the date of this Notice and the maximum and minimum prices at which shares may be bought.
The Directors intend to use the authority only if, in the light of market conditions prevailing at the time, they believe that the effect of such purchase will be in the best interests of the shareholders generally.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the Company will be taken into account in reaching such a decision.
Any shares purchased in this way will either be cancelled and the number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly, or be held as treasury shares.
Shares held as treasury shares can in the future be cancelled, re-sold or used to provide shares for employee share schemes.
As at 12 December 2008, options over a total of 1,863,252 ordinary shares were outstanding and not exercised.
That number of ordinary shares represents 2.25% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 12 December 2008.
It would represent 2.50% of the issued ordinary share capital if the authority to buy the Companys own shares had been used in full at that date.
Resolution 12 Approval of the 2009 LTIP Explanations for Resolution 12 are contained in the Chairmans letter to shareholders dated 15 December 2008 which accompanies this Annual Report.
Resolution 13 Adoption of new Articles of Association It is proposed in Resolution 13 to adopt new Articles of Association the New Articles in order to update the Companys current Articles of Association the Current Articles primarily to take account of changes in English company law brought about by the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is also proposing changes to its Current Articles to incorporate dispute resolution provisions all as detailed in the Appendix.
The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are summarised in the following Appendix.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some more minor changes which merely reflect changes made by the Companies Act 2006 have not been noted in the Appendix.
The New Articles showing all the changes to the Current Articles are available for inspection, as noted above.
Recommendation The Directors consider that all the proposed resolutions set out in this Notice of Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and of its shareholders as a whole and they unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of them, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings of shares in the Company.
