Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 69 APPENDIX TO NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Explanatory Notes of Principal Changes to the Companys Articles of Association 1.
Articles which duplicate statutory provisions Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 are in the main to be removed in the New Articles.
This is in line with the approach advocated by the Government that statutory provisions should not be duplicated in a companys constitution.
Certain examples of such provisions include provisions as to the form of resolutions, the variation of class rights, the requirement to keep accounting records and provisions regarding the period of notice required to convene general meetings.
The main changes made to reflect this approach are detailed below.
Form of resolution The Current Articles enable members to act by written resolution and to pass extraordinary resolutions.
Under the Companies Act 2006 public companies can no longer pass written resolutions and the concept of an extraordinary resolution has not been retained.
These provisions have therefore been removed in the New Articles.
Convening extraordinary and annual general meetings The provisions in the Current Articles dealing with the convening of general meetings and the length of notice required to convene general meetings are being removed in the New Articles because the relevant matters are provided for in the Companies Act 2006.
In particular an extraordinary general meeting to consider a special resolution can be convened on 14 days notice whereas previously 21 days notice was required.
Votes of members Under the Companies Act 2006 proxies are entitled to vote on a show of hands whereas under the Current Articles proxies are only entitled to vote on a poll.
The time limits for the appointment or termination of a proxy appointment have been altered by the Companies Act 2006 so that the articles cannot provide that they should be received more than 48 hours before the meeting or in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after the meeting, more than 24 hours before the time for the taking of a poll, with weekends and bank holidays being permitted to be excluded for this purpose.
The New Articles give the Directors discretion when calculating the time limits, to exclude weekends and bank holidays.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share held by the shareholder.
The New Articles reflect all of these new provisions.
Age of Directors on appointment The Current Articles contain a provision limiting the age at which a Director can be appointed.
Such provision could now fall foul of the Employment Equality Age Regulations 2006 and so has been removed from the New Articles.
Conflicts of interest The Companies Act 2006 sets out Directors general duties which largely codify the existing law but with some changes.
Under the Companies Act, from 1 October 2008 a Director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a Director becomes a Director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The Companies Act 2006 allows Directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, where the Articles of Association contain a provision to this effect.
The Companies Act 2006 also allows the Articles of Association to contain other provisions for dealing with Directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The New Articles give the Directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards which will apply when Directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
Firstly, only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the companys success.
The Directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
It is also proposed that the New Articles should contain provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at Board Meetings and availability of board papers to protect a Director being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict has previously been authorised by the Directors.
It is the Boards intention to report annually on the Companys procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers of authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and that the procedures have been followed.
70 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 APPENDIX TO NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED Explanatory Notes of Principal Changes to the Companys Articles of Association 7.
Notice of board meetings Under the Current Articles, when a Director is abroad he can request that notice of Directors meetings are sent to him at a specified address and if he does not do so he is not entitled to receive notice while he is away.
This provision has been removed, as modern communications mean that there may be no particular obstacle to giving notice to a Director who is abroad.
It has been replaced with a more general provision that a Director is treated as having waived his entitlement to notice, unless he supplies the Company with the information necessary to ensure that he receives notice of a meeting before it takes place.
Records to be kept The provision in the Current Articles requiring the Board to keep accounting records has been removed as this requirement is contained in the Companies Act 2006.
Distribution of assets otherwise than in cash The Current Articles contain provisions dealing with the distribution of assets in kind in the event of the Company going into liquidation.
These provisions have been removed in the New Articles on the grounds that a provision about the powers of liquidators is a matter for insolvency law rather than the articles and that the Insolvency Act 1986 confers powers on the liquidator which would enable it to do what is envisaged by the Current Articles.
Electronic and web communications Provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which came into force in January 2007 enable companies to communicate with members by electronic and or website communications.
The New Articles continue to allow communications to members in electronic form and, in addition, they also permit the Company to take advantage of the new provisions relating to website communications.
Before the Company can communicate with a member by means of website communication, the relevant member must be asked individually by the Company to agree that the Company may send or supply documents or information to him by means of a website, and the Company must either have received a positive response or have received no response within the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the request was sent.
The Company will notify the member either in writing, or by other permitted means when a relevant document or information is placed on the website and a member can always request a hard copy version of the document or information.
Directors indemnities and loans to fund expenditure The Companies Act 2006 has in some areas widened the scope of the powers of a company to indemnify Directors and to fund expenditure incurred in connection with certain actions against Directors.
In particular, a company that is a trustee of an occupational pension scheme can now indemnify a Director against liability incurred in connection with the companys activities as trustee of the scheme.
In addition, the existing exemption allowing a company to provide money for the purpose of funding a Directors defence in court proceedings now expressly covers regulatory proceedings and applies to associated companies.
Directors fees The Current Articles limit the total fees paid to Directors per year to 250,000 or such higher amount as determined by ordinary resolution of the Company.
The New Articles increase this limit to 400,000 but maintain the provision allowing the Company to pay a higher amount if such amount is determined by ordinary resolution.
This change has been made to take account of market trends and inflation since the provision in the Current Articles was adopted in 1999.
General Generally the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer language into the New Articles.
Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 71 FINANCIAL CALENDAR Annual General Meeting 10 February 2009 Ex dividend date 11 February 2009 Record date 13 February 2009 Payment of dividend 27 February 2009 Announcement of 2009 interim results May 2009 Payment of interim dividend July 2009 The date by which shareholders must be recorded on the share register to receive the dividend.
Victrex plc Registered in England Number 2793780 Registered Office: Victrex Technology Centre Hillhouse International Thornton Cleveleys Lancashire FY5 4QD United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 1253 897700 Fax: 44 0 1253 897701 Web: www.
com 72 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 NOTES Cover Spread AW:Layout 1 15 12 08 15:36 Page 2 With 30 years of experience, Victrex is a global manufacturer of innovative, high performance polymers, including VICTREX PEEK polymer.
VICTREX PEEK is one of the highest quality thermoplastic materials in the world, offering a unique combination of properties to help processors and end users reach new levels of cost savings, performance and product differentiation.
Contents CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 01 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 01 ANNUAL BUSINESS REVIEW 02 ABOUT OUR BUSINESS 02 MARKET SEGMENTS 04 STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES 06 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 07 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 08 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 13 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 16 DIRECTORS REPORT 17 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 19 REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION 23 RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS 29 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 30 ACCOUNTS 31 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 32 BALANCE SHEETS 33 CASH FLOW STATEMENTS 34 STATEMENTS OF RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSE 35 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 36 FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY 63 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 64 APPENDIX TO NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 69 FINANCIAL CALENDAR 71 VICTREX plc ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Cover Spread AW:Layout 1 15 12 08 15:36 Page 1 GLOBAL SOLUTIONS Victrex plc Victrex Technology Centre, Hillhouse International, Thornton Cleveleys, Lancashire, FY5 4QD, United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 1253 897700 Fax: 44 0 1253 897701 Web: www.
com VICTREX plc ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Sixteenth Annual General Meeting 10 February 2009 Form of Proxy Name and address Please print I We being a Member s of VICTREX plc, hereby appoint the Chairman of the Meeting, or see note 1 as my our proxy proxies to vote for me us on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 10 February 2009 and at any adjournment thereof.
Please tick here if this proxy appointment is one of multiple appointments being made see note 2.
Please indicate with an X in the appropriate spaces how you wish your votes to be cast on the Ordinary and Special Resolutions to be submitted to the Meeting.
Unless otherwise instructed, the proxy will vote as he thinks fit or abstain on any specified resolution where no specific directions are given or any other business which may properly come before the Meeting.
Vote Vote Resolution For Against withheld Resolution For Against withheld 1 To approve the Report on Directors 9 To authorise the Directors to allot shares.
10 To partially disapply the statutory 2 To receive the Accounts and Reports of rights of pre-emption.
the Directors and Auditor for the year ended 30 September 2008.
11 To authorise the Company to purchase its own shares.
3 To approve the final dividend.
12 To approve the rules of the Victrex 2009 4 To re-elect Mr P J M fide Smedt as a Director.
5 To re-elect Mr L C Pentz as a Director.
13 To adopt the Articles of Association produced to the Meeting and initialled by 6 To re-elect Dr T J Walker as a Director.
the Chairman of the Meeting as the Articles of Association of the Company.
7 To re-elect Mr G F B Kerr as a Director.
8 To re-appoint the Auditor and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Signature Dated this day of 2008 09 Notes 1 You may, if you wish, in the space provided insert the name s of the person s of your choice to attend and, on a poll, vote at the Meeting on your behalf.
If you do insert such name s, you should also strike out the words the Chairman of the Meeting and initial the alteration.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
If the proxy is being appointed in relation to less than your full voting entitlement, please enter in the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
If left blank your proxy will be deemed to be authorised in respect of your full voting entitlement or if this proxy form has been issued in respect of a designated account for a shareholder, the full voting entitlement for that designated account.
2 To appoint more than one proxy, you may photocopy this form.
Please indicate in the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
Please also indicate by ticking the box provided if the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being given.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
3 In the case of a corporation, this proxy must be executed either under its common seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised in writing.
4 In order to have effect, this proxy, and the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power of authority, must be lodged with the Companys Registrars, Equiniti, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZX, not less than 48 hours before the time fixed for the Meeting.
5 In the case of a joint holding, a proxy need only be signed by one joint holder, but the names of all the joint holders must be stated.
If more than one such joint holder tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, only the holder named first on the Register will be counted.
6 The completion and return of this Form of Proxy will not prevent you from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
7 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for and against the resolution.
SECOND FOLD BUSINESS REPLY SERVICE Licence No.
SEA10855 1 1 Equiniti Aspect House Spencer Road LANCING BN99 6ZX THIRD FOLD AND TUCK IN FIRST FOLD
