The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Board of Directors & Group Operations Executive Our operational framework is underpinned by clearly defined strategies, vision and values which combine to create shareholder value through the effective use of our resources.
Mark Selway The Lord Smith of Kelvin Chief Executive Chairman Aged 49, was appointed chief executive in June Aged 64, was appointed chairman in July 2002.
Before his appointment, he was a director He is chairman of Scottish and Southern Energy of Britax International plc and managing director plc and Glasgow 2014 Ltd, the organising of its automotive components division.
Following committee for the Commonwealth Games and a the purchase of that division by Schefenacker non-executive director of 3i Group plc, Standard International AG in 2000, he became a director Bank Group Limited and Aegon UK plc.
He was of that company and executive director of formerly chief executive of Morgan Grenfell Asset Schefenacker Vision Systems.
He is also a nonManagement, a member of the Financial Services executive director of Lend Lease Corporation Limited.
Authority and the Financial Reporting Council and chairman of Stakis plc.
Alan Mitchelson Keith Cochrane Legal and Commercial Director & Group Finance Director Company Secretary Aged 44, is a chartered accountant and was appointed group finance director in July 2006.
Aged 59, is a solicitor and joined the Group in He was formerly group director of finance at March 2000 as group company secretary.
Before that he was with appointed a director in December 2001.
Before Stagecoach Group plc where he was group finance joining the Company, he was legal and personnel director before becoming group chief executive director of Highland Distillers plc, following a in 2000.
He is a non-executive director of the number of years as a legal advisor with Trafalgar Royal Scottish National Orchestra Society Ltd. House plc.
He is a non-executive director of Glasgow 2014 Ltd. 20 Board of Directors & Group Operations Executive Keith Cochrane Alan Mitchelson Steve Noon Group Operations Executive Group Finance Director Legal and Commercial Oil & Gas Committee Director and Divisional MD Mark Selway From left to right Company Secretary Chief Executive Scot Smith Phil Clifton Minerals Power & Industrial Divisional MD Divisional MD Professor Ian Percy CBE Stephen King Michael Dearden Deputy Chairman & Senior Non-Executive Director Chairman Audit Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Aged 67, was appointed a non-executive director in Aged 48, was appointed a non-executive director in Aged 66, was appointed a non-executive director 1996.
He was formerly senior partner of accountants February 2005.
He has been group finance director of in February 2003.
A graduate of Oxford University, Grant Thornton, president of the Institute of fide La Rue plc since January 2003 and is due to step he was formerly with Burmah Castrol plc, where Chartered Accountants of Scotland and chairman of down at the end of March 2009.
He was formerly he was CEO of Castrol International.
He was a The Accounts Commission for Scotland.
He served group finance director of Midlands Electricity plc non-executive director of Johnson Matthey plc as a member of the Treasury and DTI Co-ordinating and held senior financial roles with Seeboard plc until March 2008 and Travis Perkins plc until Committee on Audit and Accounting in 2003 and and Lucas Industries plc.
He is also a non-executive November 2008.
He was formerly chairman of was chairman of Companies House until December director of Camelot Group plc.
He is senior non-executive director of Cala Group Ltd and chairman of Queen Margaret University, Edinburgh.
John Mogford Lord Robertson of Port Ellen George Christopher Clarke KT, GCMG, HonFRSE, PC Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Aged 55, was appointed a non-executive director Aged 63, was appointed a non-executive in June 2008.
He is currently an executive vice Aged 62, was appointed a non-executive director in director in 1999 and retired from the Board president of BP PLC, having been with BP for February 2004.
He was Secretary General of NATO on 31 December 2008.
30 years, initially in their exploration division 1999-2003 and before that Secretary of State and progressively rising to his current role as for Defence 1997-99.
Lord Robertson is deputy executive vice president chief operating officer chairman of TNK-BP.
He is a non-executive director US Downstream & Head of Refining.
He has held of Western Ferries Clyde Ltd.
He is also senior numerous positions in every area of BP Operations international advisor to Cable and Wireless PLC, Audit Committee from gas and renewables to upstream and on the Advisory Board of Englefield Capital, senior Remuneration Committee downstream oil.
counsellor with The Cohen Group USA and Nomination Committee President of Chatham House.
