Shareholder Information Takeovers Directive Appointment and replacement of directors The articles of association require that at the annual general Following the implementation of the EU Takeovers Directive meeting one third of the directors shall retire from ofce but into UK law, the following description provides the required shall be eligible for re-appointment.
Any director who has been information for shareholders where not already provided appointed by the Board since the previous annual general meeting elsewhere in this report.
or has held ofce for three years or more since he was appointed or last re-appointed by the Company in general meeting shall Share capital retire at the next following annual general meeting and be As at 26 December 2008, the Companys issued share capital eligible for re-appointment.
comprised a single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares.
Details of the ordinary share capital can be found in note 25 The articles of association authorise the Board to appoint directors to the Group financial statements.
and remove a director from ofce.
Voting rights Shares held by the Employee benefit Trust The Company's articles of association provide that on a show Kleinwort Benson Guernsey Trustees Limited, as trustee of The of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of Weir Group Employee Trust, holds through their designated ESOP ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote shall have account nominee, K. B CI Nominees Limited 0.047% of the issued one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by share capital of the Company, as at 26 December 2008, in trust proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary for the benefit of certain executive directors and senior executives share held.
The notice of the annual general meeting species of the Group.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or exercised by the trustee.
The trustee may vote or abstain from proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the annual voting the shares or accept or reject any offer relating to shares, general meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers in any way it sees t, without incurring any liability and without for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced being required to give reasons for its decision.
at the annual general meeting and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
Amendment of the Company's articles of association The articles of association may only be amended by a Special Transfer of shares Resolution passed at a general meeting of shareholders.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company, other than as contained in the articles of association: Repurchase of shares The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last annual The Board may, in its absolute discretion and without giving general meeting held on 7 May 2008 to buy back up to 20.9m any reason for it, refuse to register any transfer of any ordinary shares which remains outstanding until the conclusion certicated share which is not fully paid up but not so as of the next annual general meeting on 13 May 2009.
The directors to prevent dealings in listed shares from taking place and on will only use this power after careful consideration, taking into which the Company has a lien as a result of such share not account market considerations prevailing at the time, other being fully paid up.
The Board may also refuse to register any investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the instrument of transfer of a certicated share unless it is lodged overall position of the Company.
The directors will only purchase at the registered ofce, or such other place as the Board may such shares after taking into account the effects on earnings per decide, for registration, accompanied by a certicate for the share and the benets for shareholders.
shares to be transferred and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to prove title of the intending transferor: significant agreements Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval There are no agreements between the Company and its directors of the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
or employees providing for compensation for loss of ofce or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Companys banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of control of the Company.
Certain other indebtedness becomes repayable if a change of control leads to an adverse change to the Companys credit standing.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 113 Shareholder Information Continued Powers of the directors Shareholder communications The business of the Company will be managed by the Board You can now register to receive shareholder communications who may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the annual reports, interim reports and other company communications provisions of the Company's memorandum of association, the electronically and also appoint a proxy and vote electronically articles of association and any ordinary resolution of the Company.
provided you have internet access and a valid e-mail address.
To register, you will need your Shareholder Reference Number SRN, Registrars which is given on your share certicate or tax dividend voucher.
The Companys registrars are Computershare Investor Services This service is provided in conjunction with our registrars, PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZZ.
To obtain more information and register for this service, please visit Shareholder enquiries relating to shareholding, dividend payments, www-uk.
change of address, loss of share certicate, etc.
should be addressed to Computershare Investor Services PLC at the above address.
Website The registrars provide an on-line service that enables shareholders The Companys website, www.
co. uk, provides to access details of their Weir Group shareholdings.
A shareholder information including: wishing to view the information, together with additional news, updates, press releases and regulatory announcements: information such as indicative share prices and details of recent dividends, should visit www-uk.
investor information, including the full annual report, investor presentations and share price information: Dividends payment direct to banks biographies of the members of the Board and the divisional Dividends can be paid direct to your bank or building society executive team: account using the Bankers Automated Clearing Service BACS.
This means that your dividend will be in your account on the details of the Companys governance framework: and same day the Company makes the payment.
Your tax voucher will corporate responsibility reporting.
be posted directly to your own address.
Shareholders who have not yet arranged to use this method of payment can telephone Share dealing services the registrars on 0870 702 0010.
The Company encourages you Share dealing services have been established with the Companys to have your dividends paid direct to a bank or building society.
registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, which provide shareholders with an easy way to buy or sell Weir Group shares Annual general meeting on the London Stock Exchange.
The annual general meeting will be held in the Lecture Room, The Burrell Collection, Pollok Park, Glasgow on 13 May 2009 at Internet share dealing commission is just 0.5%, subject to a 11am.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the annual minimum charge of 15.
In addition, stamp duty, currently general meeting are contained in the shareholders circular.
There is no need to open an account in order to deal.
Real time dealing is available during Taxation market hours.
In addition, there is a convenient facility to place your order outside of market hours.
Up to 90 day limit orders For the purpose of capital gains tax, the market value of an are available for sales.
To access the service, log on to ordinary share of The Weir Group PLC as at 31 March 1982 was www.
This market value has been adjusted to take account of have their SRN available.
The SRN appears on share certicates the sub-division of the share capital whereby each ordinary share and tax dividend vouchers.
A bank debit card will be required of 25p was sub-divided into two ordinary shares of 12.5p each for purchases.
Please note that, at present, this service is only on 28 June 1993. available to shareholders in certain European jurisdictions.
Please Rights issues of ordinary shares took place in April 1987 at 157p refer to the website for an up-to-date list of these countries.
per share on the basis of one new ordinary share for every seven Telephone share dealing commission is 1%, subject to a ordinary shares held, in July 1990 at 250p per share on the basis minimum charge of 15.
In addition, stamp duty, currently of one new ordinary share for every five ordinary shares held and 0.5%, is payable on purchases.
The service is available from in September 1994 at 252p per share on the basis of one new 8am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays, ordinary share for every four ordinary shares held.
Shareholders should have their SRN ready when making the call.
The SRN appears on share certicates and tax dividend vouchers.
A bank debit card will be required for purchases.
Detailed terms and conditions are available on request by telephoning 0870 703 0119.
Please note this service is, at present, only available to shareholders resident in the UK and Ireland.
114 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 These services are offered on an execution only basis and subject to the applicable terms and conditions.
This is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold Weir Group shares.
Shareholders who are unsure of what action to take should obtain independent financial advice.
Share values may go down as well as up which may result in a shareholder receiving less than he she originally invested.
To the extent that this statement is a financial promotion for the share dealing service provided by Computershare Investor Services PLC, it has been approved by Computershare Investor Services PLC for the purpose of Section 21 2 b of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 only.
Computershare Investor Services PLC is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Where this has been received in a country where the provision of such a service would be contrary to local laws or regulations, this should be treated as information only.
Voting Information on how you can vote electronically can be obtained through our registrars by visiting www.
com Online share management As part of our commitment to improve shareholder communications our registrars now offer you a free, secure share management website.
Managing your shares online means you can access information quickly, securely and minimise postal communications.
This service will allow you to: view your share portfolio and see the latest market price of your shares: elect to receive your shareholder communications online: calculate the total market price of each shareholding: view price histories and trading graphs: update bank mandates and change address details: and use online dealing services.
To take advantage of this service, please log in at www-uk.
com investor and enter your Shareholder Reference Number and Company Code this information can be found on the last tax dividend voucher or your share certicate.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 115 116 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Financial Highlights 2008 Financial Calendar Group results - continuing operations Ex-dividend date for final dividend 29 April 2009 1 1 1 Revenue Operating profit Pre-tax profit Order input Record date for final dividend 1,354m 185.0m 176.2m 1,439m Up 34% Up 58% Up 53% Up 30% 1 May 2009 Shareholders on the register at this date will receive the dividend 1 Earnings per share Dividend Net debt Annual General Meeting 59.3p 18.5p 239.9m Up 49% Up 12% 13 May 2009 60 20 Final dividend paid 1 45 15 Adjusted to exclude intangibles amortisation and exceptional items 30 10 1 June 2009 15 5 2007 2008 2007 2008 39.7p 59.3p 16.5p 18.5p Registered office & company number Contents: Clydesdale Bank Exchange 20 Waterloo Street The Reports Group Financial Statements Glasgow G2 6DB 1 2008 Highlights 45 Independent Auditors Report Scotland 2 Chairmans Statement 46 Consolidated Income Statement Registered in Scotland Company Number 2934 4 Our geographic footprint 47 Consolidated Balance Sheet 6 Chief Executives Review 48 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 9 Operational Reviews 49 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income & Expense 16 Financial Review 50 Notes to the Group Financial Statements 20 Board of Directors & Group Operations Executive 22 Directors Report Company Financial Statements 28 Corporate Governance Statement 99 Independent Auditors Report 31 Audit Committee Report 100 Company Balance Sheet 32 Nomination Committee Report 101 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 33 Remuneration Committee Report 112 Principal Companies of the Group 40 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 113 Shareholder Information Inside back cover - Financial Calendar Designed by Design Motive Printed by Royle Print The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 The Weir Group PLC The Weir Group PLC Excellent Clydesdale Bank Exchange Annual Report 2008 Engineering 20 Waterloo Street Solutions Glasgow G2 6DB, Scotland Telephone: 44 0 141 637 7111 Facsimile: 44 0 141 221 9789 Email: investor-relations@weir.
