Business Review Our operating environment The UK betting and gaming industry Industry overview The regulatory environment Historically in the UK, bets on horse All of William Hills betting and gaming 9,000 LBOs operating in the UK and greyhound racing could only operations are subject to regulation, and Ireland.
be placed at the race track, by post with different rules applying for 240,000 gaming machines or via the telephone.
The off-course different operations and jurisdictions.
betting market was established 5.4bn in gross win from the UK in 1961 when the Government In Great Britain, where the majority of and Ireland LBO market.
our operations are based, the betting The number of LBOs grew rapidly, and gaming industry is regulated under The online industry reaching a peak in the 1970s the provisions of the Gambling Act $15bn in gross win generated by when there were approximately 2005, which was fully implemented online betting and gaming globally.
Since then, the sector has from 1 September 2007.
Our LBOs, 4% of global betting and experienced consolidation and a telephone operations and some online gaming industry.
reduction in the number of LBOs.
gaming operations are regulated by Market expected to grow at the Gambling Commission of Great Traditionally, the core betting Britain.
Each LBO in Great Britain is 11% per annum to $25bn in 2012. products in LBOs were UK horse and licensed to have up to four category greyhound racing and multiple-event B2 or B3 gaming machines.
An increased level of customer spending on betting and In order for us to operate as a gaming along with the attraction of licensed betting operator in Great new customers into the LBOs has been Britain, we are issued with three attributed in part to an increased licence types: operating licences, variety of products, the introduction personal management licences of gaming machines, the growth of and premises licences.
The Gambling betting on other sporting events, Commission has issued a series of particularly football, and changing licence conditions and codes of social attitudes to gambling.
practice with which operators must comply and we have policies and Online gambling has grown rapidly procedures in place that seek to Product split of online betting and since it was established in the 1990s ensure that we comply with the gaming industry and is widely expected to continue terms and conditions of our licences.
to be the principal driver of growth for the global gambling industry.
The level Although the regulatory regime of growth in the market has created for land-based gambling operations competition as an increasing number is fairly well established in many of operators compete for market countries, the gambling laws in such share.
Growth of online gaming was countries will not necessarily have originally led by customers resident been amended to take account of in the US using non-US operators.
the internet and the ability to offer However, in October 2006 the US gambling products and services government passed the Unlawful online.
Consequently, there Internet Gambling Enforcement Act, is uncertainty as to the legality of which prohibits the transfer of funds online gambling in countries.
In several from a financial institution to an countries local regulators are willing 32% Betting 20% Lotteries internet gambling site in certain to license and regulate local and 21% Casino 5% Bingo circumstances.
The introduction of often state-owned operators but 20% Poker 2% Skill games this law resulted in many companies prohibit foreign operators.
withdrawing from the US market.
The European online betting and gaming market is the principal focus of William Hill Online.
Increased broadband penetration and changing social attitudes towards betting and gaming are widely expected to drive growth in the European online gambling market.
William Hill 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information About the Gambling Commission We analyse jurisdictional risk and, The Gambling Commission of Great Britain is authorised by the Gambling where necessary, seek independent Act 2005 the Act to act as the central regulatory body for gambling.
It legal advice concerning the state has a duty to permit gambling where it is reasonably consistent with the of gambling laws in particular jurisdictions.
We use this advice to pursuit of the three licensing objectives set out in the Act: modify the basic approach on a to prevent gambling from being a source of crime or disorder, being case-by-case basis and, based on associated with crime or disorder or being used to support crime: the relevant jurisdiction, undertake to ensure that gambling is conducted in a fair and open way: and procedures in order to mitigate the to protect minors and other vulnerable persons from being harmed risk.
We have systems and controls or exploited by gambling.
in place that seek to ensure we do not offer gambling products via the internet into certain jurisdictions from which we have determined we do In our online operations, we face not wish to accept transactions.
competition from a large number of These systems and controls include UK-based bookmakers including monitoring and analysing information Ladbrokes and Coral and BetFair as provided by potential customers well as other operators based in the UK registered addresses and of customers and overseas including PartyGaming, payment methods.
In particular, the Paddy Power, 888. com and bwin that Group does not accept bets from have entered, and continue to enter, customers in the US.
the online market specifically targeting the UK and Europe.
In certain markets Competition outside the UK, we compete with We face competition primarily from companies that may have more brand other bookmakers, online betting recognition than the William Hill brand, exchanges and other online which is strongest in the UK.
There are operators but we do not believe relatively low barriers for a new that other gambling establishments, company to enter the online market namely casinos and bingo halls, but we believe that it is difficult for new represent significant competition.
In competitors to achieve significant the online marketplace, competition market share without a substantial has intensified and is expected to infrastructure, for instance sports continue to intensify as new operators betting expertise, marketing and enter the market and existing customer relationship management.
operators improve and expand their product offerings.
Overall, the competitive environment remains subject to change depending on regulatory and technological developments.
William Hills principal competitors in the UK retail market are Ladbrokes and Coral, and, in the UK telephone betting market, Ladbrokes, Coral and the Tote.
There are also a number of international telephone operators that compete with us from outside the UK.
William Hill Annual Report and Accounts 2008 21
