Business Review Our operations Key external relationships b Government and industry bodies Our strengths a Suppliers William Hill operates in a regulated In operating the William Hill William Hill relies on a number of key environment where the potential risks business, we use a number of suppliers that provide products and identified previously include adverse assets and resources that are not services to the Group.
Within William changes to the regulatory and tax otherwise reflected in our financial Hill Online, Playtech and Cryptologic regimes.
The Group, maintains both statements, including: Inc. support our casino and poker on its own and via trade associations offering.
In addition, Orbis technology an ongoing dialogue with the a long-established, trusted and platform has been used to launch Department for Culture, Media and widely recognised brand: our new online Sportsbook, which Sport DCMS and HM Treasury as well a market-leading position in UK went live in December 2008. as with the Gambling Commission.
retail betting with a high-quality estate of LBOs: In the retail channel, our most The Government and the Commission a market-leading and growing significant relationships are with have identified responsible gambling online channel: Leisure Link the UK operating division as a key area of focus and we have a track record of profit growth, of Inspired Gaming Group plc and a regular dialogue with DCMS, the tight management of costs and Global Draw Limited, both of which Gambling Commission, GamCare, strong cash flow generation: supply gaming machines to our LBOs the Responsibility in Gambling Trust a track record of innovation and in Great Britain.
SIS, in which we have and trade associations in this area.
a shareholding, and Turf TV are the We also have arrangements, via profitable adaptation to regulatory, main providers of television pictures, relevant trade associations, for alerting fiscal and technological change: audio and data into the Groups sports regulatory bodies to unusual an effective risk management LBOs.
We also have the right to screen betting patterns.
system: and television coverage of races from a strong management team various horse and greyhound tracks The Group is a major contributor with significant gambling industry via the Bookmakers Afternoon to the horse and greyhound racing experience and a workforce of Greyhound Services Limited.
industries via the statutory levy and over 16,000 trained employees.
We believe that such resources help to secure the Groups position at the For information on our relationships forefront of the betting and gaming with our employees, please see industry and ensure it is well placed the Corporate Responsibility report to compete and develop its business on page 46 to 52. in the future.
Our customers and employees are key to our success Risk and uncertainties and our Corporate Responsibility The Board routinely monitors risks CR Report on pages 46 to 52 that could materially and adversely provides further information on affect William Hills business, financial our policies and practices in these condition and results of operations.
areas, as well as details of other The key risks are listed on the key CR issues for the Group.
William Hill 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information Risks relating to the betting and gaming industry Impact of relationships with governmental authorities Increases in taxation and levies.
and the principal bodies of sport and event industries.
Existing or potential laws and regulations in jurisdictions Potentially significant losses with respect to individual from which the Group accepts bets and wagers.
The existence and or enforcement of laws and Increases in sports-related payments.
regulations relating to the offer of betting and gaming The impact of sports schedules.
products and services or the advertisement of such Technological change, particularly online.
products and services via the internet.
Regulation by certain authorities for the granting Competition from other gambling operations.
of licences and other approvals in each of the Negative publicity surrounding the gambling industry.
jurisdictions in which William Hill operates.
Risks relating to the Group Impact of a failure to determine accurately the odds Ability to integrate the acquired Playtech assets at which William Hill will accept bets in relation to any effectively and to realise all or any of the anticipated particular event and or any failure of the Groups risk benefits of the establishment of William Hill Online.
Impact of the Groups financial leverage and ability Dependence on card payments.
Infringement of our intellectual property by third High dependence on technology and advanced parties or claims of infringement of third parties rights.
information systems, which may fail or be subject Dependence on maintaining and enhancing to disruption.
Impact of regulation regarding the use of personal The current deficit in the defined benefits section customer data.
of the Groups pension plan.
Dependence on third parties for the operation Impact of any fall in revenue, particularly given of our business.
the Groups relatively high fixed costs base as a Reliance on the experience and talent of key proportion of our total costs.
personnel and on our ability to recruit and Failure to detect the fraudulent activities of customers.
Impact of currency fluctuations and hedging activities.
William Hill Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23
