financial calenDar Annual General Meeting To be held on 24 July at the offices of Buchanan Communications, 45 Moorfields, London, EC2Y 9AE at 11.30 am Ordinary dividends Interim 4.60p per share Paid 8 January 2008 Final 10.31p per share Payable 8 August 2008 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 11 July 2008 Half year results Interim announcement November 2008 Full year results Preliminary announcement June 2009 Annual Report Posted to shareholders at the end of June 2009 shareholDer information Annual Report Copies can be obtained from the Companys address overleaf.
Registrar The Companys Registrar is Equiniti.
If you have any questions about your holding or wish to notify any change in your details, please contact the Registrar at: Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA.
Telephone: 0871 384 2366 calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline, other telephony provider costs may vary.
Whenever you contact the Registrar, please quote the full names in which your shares are held.
Please advise the Registrar promptly of any change of address.
Dividend mandates The Company encourages its shareholders to have future dividends paid directly into their bank or building society account.
To set this up for the shares you hold, you should contact the Registrar for a dividend mandate form or complete the instructions attached to your dividend payment.
Share dealing service Wincanton shares may be dealt through the Companys brokers.
If you would like further information, you may contact the brokers at: Postal Dealing Service, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited, 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA.
Please note that to comply with legislation aimed at the control of money laundering, users of this service will be required to provide details of their identity.
Share price quotation The Companys share price is quoted daily in national and regional newspapers as well as on BBC2 Ceefax, Channel 4 Teletext and via the Wincanton website, where it is regularly updated through the day.
Shareholders enquiries If you have an enquiry about the Companys business or about something affecting you as a shareholder other than queries regarding shareholdings which are dealt with by Equiniti you are invited to contact the Company at the address below.
Unsolicited mail The Company is obliged to make its Register available to other organisations.
Shareholders wishing to limit the amount of unsolicited mail they may receive as a result should write to the Mailing Preference Service at DMA House, 70 Margaret Street, London SW1W 8SS, or online at www.
Unsolicited investment advice Over the last year many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has reported that the average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation.
Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved.
The FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors and any approach from such organisations should be reported to the FSA so that this list can be kept up to date any other appropriate action can be considered.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
87 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 ShareGift If you hold only a few shares and feel that it would be uneconomical or simply not worthwhile to sell them, you could consider donating your shares to charity through ShareGift registered charity 1052686.
Donated shares are aggregated and sold by ShareGift, the proceeds being passed on to a wide range of UK charities.
Donating shares to charity gives rise to neither a gain nor loss for UK Capital Gains Tax purposes and UK taxpayers may also be able to claim income relief on such gifts of shares.
To find out more visit www.
Alternatively contact the Companys Registrar who can help arrange the transfer of your shares.
Wincanton plc website The Wincanton website at www.
co. uk provides news and information about the services offered by Wincanton as well as useful information for investors.
Secretary and registered office C F Phillips, Wincanton plc Methuen Park Chippenham Wiltshire SN14 0WT Tel 44 0 1249 71 00 00 Registered Number 4178808 88 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 Wincanton is a European leader in the design, implementation and management of advanced supply chain solutions.
Our services cover the entire supply chain, from raw materials to recycling, adding value by optimising performance at every stage.
Successfully building a track record of earnings and dividend growth through a combination of organic growth and acquisition.
High levels of new business wins and contract start-ups confirms the strength of our relationships and consistent quality of service performance.
Building momentum in Mainland Europe through focus on the key markets of Germany, France and Poland.
Designed and produced by Addison Corporate Marketing Printed in the UK by St Ives Westerham Press Ltd Employees commitment and Printed on Revive 75 and 100 Silk and Revive 100 Uncoated.
professionalism continue to create Revive 75 Silk is 50% fide-inked post-consumer waste, 25% unprinted value for shareholders by adding pre-consumer waste and 25% virgin fibre.
All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free ECF and the manufacturing mill is accredited with the value for customers.
ISO 14001 standard for environmental management.
Revive 75 Silk is a Carbon Neutral product.
Revive 100 Silk is 100% fide-inked post-consumer waste.
All pulps used are unbleached and the manufacturing mill is accredited with the ISO 14001 standard for environmental management.
Revive 100 Uncoated is 100% fide-inked post-consumer waste.
All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free ECF and the manufacturing mill is accredited with the ISO 14001 standard for environmental management.
Wincanton plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Expanding in growing markets Expanding in growing markEts www.
co. uk Wincanton plc Methuen Park Chippenham Wiltshire SN14 0WT United Kingdom Creative solutions and consistent performance Tel 44 0 1249 71 00 00 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Fax 44 0 1249 71 00 01
