22 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 Operating review of the year Our programme to freshen-up our stores by rolling out a new look through the estate will be completed by July 2008.
Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 23 2007 08 was a strong year for Morrisons we delivered good progress on our long term plans and continued the profit recovery momentum of the previous year.
Our debt fell, despite investment for the future.
We opened eight new stores in the year, at Johnstone, Speke, Erskine, Wednesbury, Dundee, Llanelli, York, and Bristol Hartcliffe.
The store in Erskine was a replacement for another store in the town, and at 25,000 square feet was the smallest new Morrisons opened for many years.
We are pleased with its initial performance and will be looking for more such sites.
Additionally, we carried out a number of extensions of stores, with 13 extensions of retail space and 18 extensions of warehousing space to cope with the growing volumes passing through the stores.
We ended the year with 375 stores and a total of 10,835,000 square feet of retail space, growth of 3.0% on the start of the year.
Turnover grew by 4.1% to 13.0bn, a 6.0% increase after adjusting for the effect of a 53-week year in 2006 07.
We were pleased that this growth was broad-based, across all regions.
Like-for-like store sales, the measure of growth in existing stores, increased by 4.6% with both customer numbers and average basket spend increasing.
2007 08 2006 07 Like-for-like stores Other Total Total Sales of goods m 11,065 173 11,238 10,841 Fuel m 2,822 49 2,871 2,706 Total sales inc VAT m 13,887 222 14,109 13,547 Turnover exc VAT m 12,766 203 12,969 12,462 Sales per square foot 20.31 14.11 20.18 19.34 Customer numbers m 475 7 482 479 Customer spend 23.07 25.29 23.10 22.53 As in the previous year, the strongest sales growth was achieved in Scotland and the South of England, but it was pleasing also to see growth in the Groups traditional Northern heartland after two challenging years.
Our health and beauty department, revamped in 146 stores in 2006 07, showed growth, but not as much as we had aimed for.
We are trialling a new, revised format which we believe will yield more positive results.
Our home and Market Street York store, Foss Islands Retail Park leisure department showed good growth, albeit this was from CDs and DVDs at low margin.
New, broader ranges will be introduced in the coming year.
We continued to see strong trends towards customers choosing higher quality, more healthy food with sales of our Eat Smart range up 35%, the Best up 25% and Organics up 14%.
Our forecourts business is important in attracting traffic to our stores, and we ensure that our pricing is highly competitive.
Average unleaded pump prices were 94.88p in the year, compared with 90.04p the previous year.
Total litreage grew by 2.9%, a reflection of the traffic growth.
Additional information Company financial Consolidated financial Governance Financial review Operating review Chief Executives Chairmans statement statements statements and risks business review 24 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 Operating review of the year continued Summary income statement We made good strides in the past year in building on our 2008 2007 Change food specialist credentials.
In many cases, this has been about m m m showing more clearly to our customers the things that we Turnover 12,969 12,462 507 Gross profit 818 636 182 already do.
In some cases, too, we have needed to make Other operating income 30 21 9 improvements.
Our meat is butchered the old fashioned way, Administrative expenses 268 272 4 in-store rather than in a factory, by highly trained butchers.
Property transactions 32 38 6 Much of our bread is freshly baked overnight and throughout Operating profit 612 423 189 the day, from scratch using flour, yeast and water.
Our awardFinance income and costs 0 54 54 winning fish bar is laid out fresh every day.
Salads are chopped, Taxation 58 121 63 sandwiches are made, pizzas prepared and cakes topped with Profit loss for the period 554 248 306 cream.
This local, fresh preparation, provides a real quality advantage, and was not necessarily being appreciated by all our With the continued delivery of the Groups Optimisation Plan, customers.
We introduced new packaging and labelling during first announced in 2006, profit growth significantly outstripped the year which clearly shows the products that have been made turnover growth.
Gross profit increased by 29%, from 636m in-store.
And we are undertaking a programme to open up many to 818m, reflecting the benefit of many initiatives detailed of the areas of Market Street where food preparation takes place, further in this Operating review.
Administrative expenses have so that customers can see at first hand what we do.
Advertising activity has been significantly increased to support the rebranding campaign in We previously had work to do to improve our product range.
the second half of the year, and these additional costs were We made strides in the year, with an increase in range from offset by efficiency savings elsewhere.
28,000 to 30,000 lines and the relaunch of over 8,000 lines in total.
The work included the removal of all hydrogenated fats, After the cost of products, our two biggest costs are store wages and significant reductions in salt, from our own label ranges.
In both areas, we continued to We launched a new range of healthy food for children called make strides to improve our efficiency.
Store labour productivity Kids Smart, designed to be delicious, nutritious and healthy.
increased by 6% year-on-year, following a 14% improvement The fresh fruit in the range, for example, is carefully selected in the previous year.
The cost to deliver each case through our smaller, sweeter varieties of apple and pear.
Our programme to distribution network reduced by 9.4% year-on-year, with not tailor each in-store range more closely to the local customer base only financial benefits but also significant environmental continued for example, we now stock a range of Polish products benefits in terms of 3.4 million fewer miles travelled.
in over 100 stores, and we have successfully trialled local We were pleased, in the year, to win a number of important sourcing in a small number of stores.
In our dialogue with our industry awards, reflecting great achievements of our colleagues customers, we find that they strongly support British agriculture, throughout the business.
Foremost amongst these were the Grocer and we are proud to reflect that sentiment by confirming that we Gold Awards for Service and for Availability, the National Recycling will only stock fresh beef, pork and in-season lamb that is British.
Awards for Best Supermarket Recycling Initiative Scheme and the We are closer to source than any other major food retailer.
International Wine Challenge with 147 Gold Commendations.
I outlined last year our plans to sharpen our image, with a programme to freshen-up our stores.
The new look is rolling out Optimisation Plan progress through our estate, and by July 2008 the work will be complete.
Last year, having achieved our initial targets for cost At this stage, all store exteriors and approximately 140 interiors reduction and margin improvement, I outlined a detailed have been completed.
The programme covers the exterior and programme for the next stage of development for Morrisons, interior signage of the stores, our filling stations, our trucks with the overall aim of becoming the food specialist for and our Market Street counters.
The total cost of the work will everyone.
I explained what we mean by this: average less than 0.5m per store, reflecting the care that has been taken to ensure that the new design is cost effective.
Food specialist We really understand food It has been well received by customers.
we know where it comes from we pack it and make it in our factories Being the food specialist for everyone means not just providing we make it in our stores great products but also great value, and that has always been a we employ craft skills in every store strength of Morrisons.
UK grocery retailing is one of the most competitive retail sectors in the world, and the battle for For everyone Great food which is also great value customers in 2007, as the economy tightened, was hard fought.
Great food which is for every day, Morrisons delivers value through having highly competitive base not just special days prices and offering a broad range of attractive promotions.
These Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 25 Fresh choice for you advertising campaign Background Morrisons has always been associated with low prices and, particularly, great offers.
What Morrisons hasnt shouted about is its high-quality food.
This is a perception issue, and a perception issue that has been holding Morrisons back, not just in the former Safeway stores but also in the heartland.
The reality is that every day Morrisons makes and prepares more food fresh in-store than any other supermarket meat cut fresh in-store every day, fish brought fresh into store having never been frozen, bread baked from scratch every day, sandwiches and cakes made fresh each day theres a whole fresh food story that consumers are completely unaware of.
The objective of the new advertising campaign was simple get customers and non-customers to appreciate the strength and quality of Morrisons food offering.
The opportunity Interest in the quality of food and where it comes from is now mass market.
As a mass market retailer committed to fresh food, Morrisons has the opportunity to become the Food Specialist for Everyone, more mass market than Waitrose, M&S and Sainsbury, more of a food specialist than ASDA or Tesco.
The creative strategy The new advertising campaign features well known but down to earth shoppers, Denise van Outen, Gabby Logan, Nick Hancock, Diarmuid Gavin, Alan Hansen and Lulu, demanding the freshest food when they go shopping demands that Morrisons are able to fulfil through Market Street, with each Market Street expert preparing the food fresh and to order.
Results The new campaign has been instantly successful.
Customers have described it as a real eye-opener, perceptions of food quality are rising, and the commercial metrics are positive.
Additional information Company financial Consolidated financial Governance Financial review Operating review Chief Executives Chairmans statement statements statements and risks business review 26 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 Operating review of the year continued Our manufacturing businesses will be an important part of delivering our food specialist credentials.
Collectively, they rank as a Top 5 UK food producer.
Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 27 are available all week, every week never less than 1,000 promotions including 100 buy one get one free.
The sector has also been increasing the number of big event promotions, where eye-catching deals are used to attract customers into the stores examples in the year were the launch of the final Harry Potter book and the DVD of Casino Royale where supermarket prices were very significantly below those of high street competitors.
Morrisons played its full part in this activity but for us the best way to provide our customers with value is to offer superb quality products, unique to Morrisons, at great prices.
We had real success in the year we were first to market with Spring Lamb, a wonderful product, sourced from British farmers at fair market rates and offered to customers at a price over 20% below competitors prices.
A number of our Christmas products were rated very highly our Christmas cake outscored similar products from competitors in taste tests, but at half the price of some.
Griffith Park sparkling rose, at 4.99, beat off many champagnes costing over 20 at the Effervescents du Monde awards in France.
It was exclusive to Morrisons.
This is what being the food specialist for everyone is all about showing to our customers that great food does not have to be expensive food.
In support of the changes taking place in-store, we launched an advertising campaign in the second half year designed to attract new customers to come and try us.
It placed emphasis on our in-store food production and our food provenance knowledge, which we know appeals to customers.
Well known, but down to earth, personalities were used in the campaign Nick Hancock, Denise Van Outen, Diarmuid Gavin, Gaby Logan, Alan Hansen and Lulu and fresh product featured strongly.
We were pleased with the success of this campaign it told customers things they did not know about Morrisons, and they liked what they heard.
We welcomed many new customers into our stores towards the end of the year as a result and, very importantly, they kept coming back.
Our colleagues are vital to delivering our success to be the food specialist for everyone demands a higher level of service and knowledge in our stores.
We believe we are the largest employer of craft skills butchers, bakers, fishmongers in Rathbones bakery Wakefield the country, and we have 25,000 people employed in producing Our bakeries deliver fresh bread to our stores every day.
Our 117,000 people are also our customers, and we were delighted to introduce a discount scheme for them for the first time, in November 2007.
Given that the weekly food bill represents a significant part of household budgets, this is a key benefit for our staff.
Our stability index, a measure of the proportion of our colleagues who have been with us for over one year, improved from 71.3% to 75.7% in the year.
This is not yet high enough, and we will continue to implement initiatives to encourage our best staff to stay longer with us.
We wish to invest in skills, and take out work where we can be more Additional information Company financial Consolidated financial Governance Financial review Operating review Chief Executives Chairmans statement statements statements and risks business review 28 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 Operating review of the year continued efficient.
Our trials of self scan checkouts were successful in the more chilled space and this programme will continue through year, and we intend to roll these out to over 200 stores.
Our progress here was slower than we would have wished.
Our programme to replace all the major systems I was pleased to complete our senior management team during in the business got under way in 2007.
The first stages involved the past year, with the appointment of new HR, Marketing, and hardware and software selection and the overall design of the Home and Leisure Directors.
Additionally, upon the retirement of new systems.
Hewlett Packard were selected to provide our David Hutchinson as Production Director we chose not to replace core hardware and Oracle the software.
The first major systems this main Board position, instead creating two separate roles implementation will be a new Group HR and payroll system, Manufacturing Director and Distribution Director, both promoted which will go live in late 2008 and will be one of the largest and from within.
The senior team has come together well around our most advanced payrolls in the UK.
Thereafter, the programme Optimisation Plan agenda, and I am pleased that we now have a of systems renewal will run throughout 2009 and 2010. stable and complete team driving the leadership agenda.
The overall investment requirements for the Optimisation Plan, The importance to society of large corporations acting outlined last year, are 450m over and above normal capital responsibly is growing, and Morrisons is determined to play investment, and the programme will run to 2010.
In 2007 we published our first Corporate Social only 68m of this was incurred as many of the programmes were Responsibility report, which highlighted our activities in this in the enabling stages, but investment will accelerate in 2008. area and set out some ambitious targets for reductions in We have not changed our estimate of the overall costs.
carbon emissions, energy usage and wastage.
Outlook We made good progress in many areas in the past year overall Household budgets are tight, with disposable incomes under carbon emissions were down by 25% on 2005 70% of the way pressure and global commodity price rises feeding through towards our target of a 36% reduction.
This has been achieved to the cost of basic foodstuffs and energy.
At the same time, by installing new refrigeration in our stores, with less leakage of the period of cheap credit has come to an end.
coolant, by training our colleagues to be more aware of energy efficiency, resulting in a 5.0% reduction in the Groups energy This environment presents an opportunity for Morrisons.
usage, and by beginning to re-equip our vehicle fleet with more Whilst many of our programmes are designed to improve efficient engines.
Customers are concerned to contribute to the product quality or the overall shopping experience, the great environmental agenda, and improved recycling disciplines can value we offer our customers will be at the forefront of our help greatly.
In addition to providing recycling facilities at most activity in the year ahead.
of our stores, we launched an information campaign called We expect to open eight new stores in the coming year, and to Recyclopedia last year.
It seeks to inform customers, through extend a further 19 stores with an additional 100,000 square simple graphics, of the recycling options available for the feet of selling space.
We are well placed to achieve our target packaging concerned.
We were pleased that this initiative of increasing selling space by one million square feet over three won a National Recycling award.
years, and we expect to complete all our other, previously In outlining our Optimisation Plan last year, I highlighted a announced, investment programmes as planned.
number of areas where our infrastructure required further We have made a promising start to our new financial year, in a investment, in distribution, manufacturing and in systems.
market that we know will be particularly challenging.
We are In distribution, we successfully opened a new grocery depot well on track towards our goal of being the food specialist in Swindon to serve stores in the South and West, relocating for everyone.
This saved 2.9 million miles of transportation and allowed us to sell the surplus depot.
We have agreed terms for the development of a new regional distribution centre at Sittingbourne, in Kent, and expect this leasehold facility to open in 2010.
In manufacturing, the development of our new abattoir in Spalding continued, and it will open fully in the second half of 2008 by that stage all our fresh beef, pork and in-season lamb will not only be British but also will be processed through our own facilities.
We made progress in completing our chill chain through the manufacturing and distribution businesses, and all products that we wish to chill now arrive at the back door of our stores in chilled condition.
In-store, we still have work to do to provide Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 29 In early 2008, Morrisons launched a new format magazine available free in-store for all its customers.
This quarterly magazine is packed full of health tips, inspiring food ideas and recipes, and loads of information about what is on offer in-store.
This brief extract from the first edition is about the Experts that operate in Market Street.
Everything at the deli is freshly There are more than 50 varieties of fish available at the cut and weighed in front of the counter, none of which have been previously frozen.
When customer, so they get exactly we say fresh, we really mean fresh, explains Kurtis.
Unless, that is, we sell depends on what the fishermans caught recently.
The express Occasionally this means customers might not find a particular deli is there for people who variety theyre looking for.
If someones looking for a specific want the same quality products type of fish for a recipe and its not available because we without the wait, explains dont accept anything thats not straight out of the sea Lorna.
We pre-weigh, package well suggest alternatives that will work just as well.
and price it in store so its We have lots of regulars, explains Liz.
One woman comes ready for you to take to the till.
According to Lorna, its the in every morning to buy her lunch and frequently tells us how amazing displays, brilliant service and massive choice that much she loves the takeaway food because its so fresh.
The huge range of cheese That kind of comment makes my job worthwhile.
Additional information Company financial Consolidated financial Governance Financial review Operating review Chief Executives Chairmans statement statements statements and risks business review
