94 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 Additional shareholder information The following sections provide the additional information for No shareholder shall be entitled to vote in relation to shares held by shareholders required following the implementation in the UK them unless all moneys presently payable by them in respect of those of the EU Takeover Directive if not provided elsewhere in this shares have been paid.
Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
The Company has the right to apply for an order that the voting Share capital rights of shareholders may be restricted where a notice pursuant The Company Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC has two classes to section 793 of the 2006 Act which has replaced section 212 1 of shares: ordinary shares of 10p each ordinary shares and 5 4% of the 1985 Act has been given in respect of shares held by such cumulative redeemable preference shares of 1 per share shareholder and the information required by such notice has not preference shares.
been given to the Company.
As at 5 February 2007, the Company had 2,676,776,258 ordinary Transfer of shares shares in issue.
During the year ended 3 February 2008, 9,294,872 A shareholder may transfer all or any of his her certificated shares ordinary shares were issued to its Directors and staff in respect of by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form share options.
As at 3 February 2008, the Company had which the Board of Directors each a Director of the Company 2,686,071,130 ordinary shares in issue.
An instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and, in the case of a partly paid Details of the options outstanding under each of the Companys share, by or on behalf of the transferee.
An instrument of transfer share option schemes at the end of the year are set out in note 27 need not be under seal.
to the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Subject to the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 CREST As at 5 February 2007, the Company had 282,666 preference Regulations the Board may refuse to register the transfer of a shares in issue.
The preference shares ceased to be convertible into certificated share which: ordinary shares in 2006 and the number of preference shares at 3 February 2008 remained at 282,666.
The Company may redeem i is not a fully paid share, provided that the refusal does not preference shares at any time at par and shall redeem all of the prevent dealings in shares of that class in the Company from preference shares in issue at par on 31 December 2009.
The holders taking place on an open and proper basis, of preference shares are entitled to a fixed cumulative preferential ii is in respect of more than one class of shares, 1 dividend of 5 4% per annum payable on 15 March and 15 September in each year until redemption.
iii is not lodged, duly stamped if stampable with the Company and except where the shares are registered in the name of Each ordinary share carries one vote and the preference shares do a recognised person accompanied by the relevant share not carry voting rights unless the vote is on a winding up, a resolution certificate and such other evidence of the right to transfer varying or abrogating the rights of the preference shareholders or as the Board may require: or the preference dividend is six months in arrears.
At 3 February 2008, the total number of voting rights in the Company was 2,686,071,130. iv is in favour of more than four persons except in the case of executors or trustees of a deceased member.
The authorised share capital of the Company as at this date was 4,050m, comprising 4,000 million ordinary shares and 50 million Notice of refusal to register a transfer together with reasons for preference shares.
refusal must be sent to the transferee as soon as practicable and in any event within two months after the date on which the instrument The issued ordinary share capital represents 99.99% and the issued of transfer was lodged with the Company or the instruction to preference share capital represents 0.01% of the total issued transfer shares was received by the Company from the operator of a share capital.
relevant system in each case, as defined in the CREST Regulations, No share in the capital of the Company may be allotted at a discount as the case may be.
and, save as permitted by the Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act No fee shall be charged for the registration of any instrument of and the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act together the Acts, transfer or other document relating to or affecting the title to any no share may be allotted except as paid up at least as to one-quarter share.
Every transfer of shares which are in uncertificated form must of its nominal value and the whole of any premium on it.
be made by means of a relevant system, including the relevant Voting system of which CREST Co Limited is the operator in each case, Subject as set out above: as defined in the CREST Regulations.
i on a show of hands, every shareholder present in person shall Other than as provided by Part 28, Chapter 3 of the 2006 Act have one vote, and which restates sections 428 to 430 of the 1985 Act and implements the Takeovers Directive Interim Implementation ii on a poll every shareholder present in person or by proxy shall Regulations 2006 SI 1183 2006 the Regulations and the City have one vote for every share of which they are the holder.
Code on Takeovers and Mergers there are no rules or provisions relating to mandatory takeover bids and or squeeze-out and sellout rules in relation to the ordinary shares.
Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 95 Variation of rights Redeemable shares and purchase of own shares Rights attached to any class of shares may be varied or abrogated Subject to the Acts, and without prejudice to any rights attaching in such manner if any as may be provided by those rights, or in to any existing shares or class of shares, in such manner as is the absence of any provision, either with the written consent of the provided in the Articles, shares may be issued that are to be holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued redeemed or which at the option of the Company or the holder shares of that class excluding shares of that class held by the are liable to be redeemed.
Company as treasury shares, or with the sanction of an extraordinary Subject to the Acts and to Chapter 12 of the Rules relating to resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of Admission to the Official List in accordance with section 73A 2 those shares.
of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 the Listing Rules Alteration of share capital and the Company may purchase any of its own shares of any class The Company may from time-to-time by ordinary resolution increase, in any way and at any price whether at par or above or below par consolidate and divide or, subject to the Acts, subdivide all or any subject, in the case of the preference shares to the prior approval part of its share capital.
The Company may by ordinary resolution by extraordinary resolution of the preference shareholders at a also cancel any shares that have not, at the date of passing the separate meeting.
resolution, been taken or agreed to be taken by any person and The Directors are, by shareholder resolution passed at the diminish the amount of its authorised share capital by the amount Companys AGM on 24 May 2007, generally and unconditionally of the shares so cancelled.
Subject to the provisions of the Acts, the authorised to make market purchases of ordinary shares and Company may by special resolution reduce its share capital, capital preference shares provided that: redemption reserve and share premium account.
i the maximum aggregate numbers of ordinary shares Allotment and issue of shares and preference shares authorised to be purchased were Subject to the provisions of the Acts and the Articles and without 151,900,000 ordinary shares and 28,266 preference shares: prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares or class of shares, any share may be issued with such rights or restrictions ii the minimum prices to be paid were the respective par values as the Company may by ordinary resolution determine or, subject and the maximum prices to be paid were amounts equal to to and in the default of such determination, as the Board shall 105% of the average of the values of such shares in the five determine.
Subject to the provisions of the Acts and the Articles, business days before purchase.
the unissued shares of the Company whether forming part of the The authority expires at the conclusion of the next AGM of the original or any increased capital are at the disposal of the Board.
A resolution to renew and extend this authority is to be The Directors are, by shareholder resolution passed at the proposed at the 2008 AGM.
Companys AGM on 24 May 2007, generally and unconditionally Distribution of assets on winding up authorised, pursuant to section 80 of the 1985 Act to exercise all Except as provided by the rights and restrictions attached to any the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the class of shares, the holders of the Companys shares will under meaning of section 80 2 of the 1985 Act up to a maximum general law be entitled to share in any surplus assets in a winding nominal amount of 80,300,000.
This authority expires on the up in proportion to their shareholdings.
A liquidator may, with the earlier of 30 June 2008 or on the conclusion of the 2008 AGM of sanction of an extraordinary resolution and any other sanction the Company unless previously revoked, varied or renewed.
A required by the Insolvency Act 1986, divide among the shareholders resolution to renew this authority is to be proposed at the 2008 AGM.
in specie the whole or any part of the assets of the Company and The Directors are, by shareholder resolution also passed at the may, for that purpose, value any assets and except as aforesaid Companys AGM on 24 May 2007, generally empowered to allot determine how the division shall be carried out as between the equity securities within the meaning of section 94 2 of the 1985 shareholders or different classes of shareholders.
Act of the Company for cash as if section 89 1 of the 1985 Act or Substantial shareholders any pre-emption provisions contained in the Articles did not apply.
As at 12 March 2008, the Company had been notified, in accordance This power is limited to i any allotment where equity securities with DTR 5 of the Financial Service Authoritys Disclosure and have been offered to holders of equity securities in proportion Transparency Rules, of the interests in the Companys ordinary as nearly as may be to their then holdings of such securities: and share capital.
This detail of substantial shareholders and indirect ii any other allotment of equity securities up to an aggregate shareholdings as at 12 March 2008 are disclosed in the Directors nominal value of 13,387,561.
Such authorities and powers expire Report are disclosed inside the back cover.
on the earlier of 30 June 2008 or on the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company unless previously revoked, varied or renewed.
A The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders resolution to renew this authority is to be proposed at the 2008 AGM.
of securities which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Additional information Company financial Consolidated financial Governance Financial review Operating review Chief Executives Chairmans statement statements statements and risks business review 96 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 Additional shareholder information continued Significant agreements Retirement by rotation Other than disclosed below there are no agreements that the Subject to the Articles all of the Directors shall retire from office at Company considers significant and to which the Company is party the AGM at least once in every three year period.
The Directors to that would take effect, alter or terminate upon change of control of retire will be those who have been longest in office since their last the Company following a takeover bid.
The terms of the LTIP state that upon change of control occurring Replacement of Directors that the Board will notify every participant within seven days of the Section 168 of the 2006 Act provides that a Company may remove change of control that, subject to certain conditions, that every a Director by ordinary resolution but requires that it be at a meeting Award shall vest, and that any Option may be exercised within one and not by written resolution so as to ensure the Directors right to month of the date of notification.
Compensation for loss of office Without prejudice to the provisions of the Acts, the Articles provide The Articles provide that the Board may resolve to exercise any that the Company may by ordinary resolution remove any Director power conferred on the Company by the Acts to make provision as before the expiration of his her period of office.
The Company may may seem appropriate for the benefit of any persons employed or by ordinary resolution appoint a person to be a Director either to fill formerly employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any a vacancy or as an additional member of the Board.
member of their family, including a spouse or any person who is or Subject to the provisions of the Acts, the Board may appoint a was dependent on them.
Such provisions would apply in connection person to be a Director either to fill a vacancy or as an additional with the cessation or the transfer to any person of the whole or part member of the Board.
of the undertaking of the Company or any subsidiary.
The Company may by ordinary resolution subject the number of Following a review of service contracts for the Executive Directors, Directors to a maximum.
the Remuneration Committee adopted a new model contract which provides that any compensation provisions for termination without Directors interests notice will only extend to 12 months of salary, benefits and pension Subject to the provisions of the Acts, and provided that he she has which may be payable in instalments and subject to mitigation and disclosed to the Board the nature and extent of any material interest has agreed that going forward, all new Director contracts would be of his her, a Director notwithstanding his her office: on that basis.
The model contract does not contain change of control i may be a party to, or otherwise interested in, any transaction or provisions.
This policy was applied to Marc Bolland at the time of arrangement with the Company or in which the Company is his recruitment and was applied to Mark Gunter, Martyn Jones otherwise interested, and Roger Owen on 5 April 2007.
Richard Pennycooks contract provides that he has an obligation to mitigate his loss in the event ii may be a Director or other officer of, or employed by, or a party of termination.
to any transaction or arrangement with, or otherwise interested in, any body corporate promoted by the Company or in which Appointment and retirement of Directors the Company is otherwise interested, Unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution, the number of Directors may not be less than two and is not subject to any iii shall not, by reason of his her office, be accountable to the maximum.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by an Company for any benefit which he she derives from any such ordinary resolution of shareholders.
The Board may appoint a office or employment or from any such transaction or Director either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
Any arrangement or from any interests in any such body corporate Director so appointed will hold office only until the next following and no such transaction or arrangement shall be liable to be AGM.
If not reappointed at such meeting, such a Director will vacate avoided on the ground of any such interest or benefit.
A Director is not required to hold shares in Votes the capital of the Company.
Questions arising at a meeting of the Board shall be decided by a On joining the Board, the Directors are provided with majority of votes.
In the case of an equality of votes, the Chairman documentation on the Company and its activities.
New Directors shall have a second or casting vote.
are provided with an appropriate induction programme and where Voting restrictions appropriate visits are arranged to stores and other business facilities.
A Director shall not vote at a meeting of the Board or a committee Ongoing training is provided as necessary.
of the Board on any resolution of the Board concerning his her Appointment of Alternate Directors appointment or concerning a matter in which he she has a material Any Director other than an alternate Director may, by notice interest other than by virtue of his her interests in shares or delivered to the registered office of the Company, or in any other debentures or other securities of, or otherwise in or through, the manner approved by the Board, appoint any other Director or any Company which together with any interest of any person other person who is approved by the Board be his her alternate.
connected with him her save for any resolution which: No appointment of an alternate Director who is not already a Director may be effective until his her appointment has been approved by the Board.
Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 97 i relates to the giving of a security, guarantee or indemnity in The salary or remuneration of any Executive Director of the Group respect of money lent or obligations incurred by him or by shall be such as the Directors may from time-to-time determine and another person at the request of or for the benefit of the may either be a fixed sum of money or may altogether or in part be Company or a subsidiary undertaking, or a debt or obligation governed by the business done or profits made, or may include the of the Company or a subsidiary undertaking for which he has making of provisions for the payment to him, his widow and other assumed responsibility in whole or in part under a guarantee dependents, of a pension on retirement from the office or or indemnity or by the giving of security, employment to which he is appointed and for the participation in pension and life assurance benefits, or may be upon such other ii relates to an offering of securities by the Company for a terms as the Directors determine.
subsidiary undertaking in which offer he is or may be entitled to participate as a holder of securities or in the underwriting The Directors shall be entitled to be paid all travelling, hotel and or sub-underwriting of which he is to participate, other expenses properly incurred by them in connection with the business of the Group, or in attending and returning from meetings iii relates to another company in which he and persons connected of the Directors or of committees of the Directors or general with him do not to his knowledge hold an interest in shares meetings of the Company.
within the meaning of sections 198215 of the 1985 Act which has now been replaced by Part 6 of the Financial Services & The Board may provide pensions or other retirement or Markets Act 2000 representing 1% or more either of its equity superannuation benefits, death or disability benefits or other share capital or of its voting rights, allowances or gratuities by insurance or otherwise, for any person who is or has been at any time a Director or employed by or in the iv relates to a contract, arrangement or proposal for the benefit service of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, or is allied of the employees of the Company or a subsidiary undertaking to or associated with the Company or any such subsidiary, or any which does not award him a privilege or benefit not generally predecessor in business of the Company or any such subsidiary.
awarded to the employees to whom the contract, arrangement These arrangements may be extended to any family member or any or proposal relates: or person who is, or was, dependent on such Director.
v concerns insurance which the Company proposes to maintain or Directors powers general purchase for the benefit of Directors or for the benefit of Subject to the provisions of the Acts, to the Memorandum of persons including Directors, unless the Company has suspended Association of the Company the Memorandum and the Articles, or relaxed the above provisions by ordinary resolution.
and to any directions given by special resolution of the Company, the Indemnification business of the Company shall be managed by the Board which may Subject to the Acts but without prejudice to any indemnity to which exercise all the powers of the Company.
he she may otherwise be entitled, every Director or other officer of Reserves the Company is entitled to be indemnified out of the assets of the The Board may, before recommending any dividend whether Company against all costs, charges, expenses, losses and liabilities preferential or otherwise, set aside out of the profits of the which he she may sustain or incur in or about the execution of his Company such sums as it thinks fit as a reserve or reserves which office or otherwise in relation to the affairs of the Company.
may, at the discretion of the Board, be applicable for any purpose Remuneration and expenses to which the profits of the Company may be properly applied.
The Unless otherwise determined by the Company by ordinary resolution, Board may also, without placing the same to reserve, carry forward a Director shall be paid for his her services as a Director fees at such any profits which it may think prudent not to distribute.
rate as may from time-to-time be determined by the Board.
The General meetings maximum aggregate level of fees is 1m or such other sum as the The Board may convene a general meeting of the Company Company may from time-to-time determine by ordinary resolution.
Any fee payable shall be deemed to accrue from day-to-day and shall be distinct from any salary, remuneration or other amounts payable In compliance with the Combined Code, notice of the AGM is sent to a Director pursuant to other provisions of the Articles.
to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
This ensures that the Company meets its requirement under the Articles Any Director who serves on any committee or who devotes special of giving 21 clear days notice before the meeting.
The Company attention to the business of the Company, or who otherwise performs may conduct the vote at the AGM by show of hands or if a poll is any services on behalf of the Company or its business which, in the demanded, by manual count.
opinion of the Board, are outside the scope of the ordinary duties of a Director, may be paid such additional remuneration for such Directors right to attend and speak services, whether by way of salary, participation in profits or A Director is entitled, even though he she is not a shareholder, otherwise, as the Board may from time-to-time determine.
to attend and speak at any general meeting and at any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares of the Company.
Additional information Company financial Consolidated financial Governance Financial review Operating review Chief Executives Chairmans statement statements statements and risks business review 98 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 Additional shareholder information continued Chairmans power to adjourn Cheques, bills and notes The Chairman may, with the consent of a meeting at which a quorum The Directors may draw, make, accept or endorse, or authorise any is present and may, if so directed by the meeting, adjourn any other person or persons to draw, make, accept or endorse, any meeting to another date, time and or place for an indefinite period.
cheques, bills of exchange, promissory notes or other negotiable No business shall be transacted at any adjourned meeting except instruments, provided that every cheque, bill of exchange, business which might have been lawfully transacted at the previously promissory note or other negotiable instrument drawn, made, unfinished meeting.
accepted or endorsed may be signed by such person or persons as the Directors may appoint for the purpose.
Exercise of voting rights The Board may exercise or cause to be exercised the voting rights Dividend reinvestment conferred by shares in any other Company held or owned by the The Board, with the authority of an ordinary resolution of the Company, or any power of appointment to be exercised by the Company, may implement and maintain one or more share dividend Company, in such manner and in all respects as it thinks fit including or distribution reinvestment plans, including or instead of offering the exercise of the voting rights or power of appointment in favour scrip dividends.
of the appointment of any Director as a Director or other officer Capitalisation or employee of such Company or in favour of the payment of The Board may, with the authority of an ordinary resolution of the remuneration to the Directors, officers or employees of such Company, resolve to capitalise any amount: Company.
i standing to the credit of the Companys reserves including any Delegation of powers to the Executive Directors share premium account, capital redemption reserve or other The Board may from time-to-time delegate or entrust to and confer undistributable reserve : or upon any Director holding executive office including a Managing Director such of its powers other than the power to make calls or ii standing to the credit of the profit and loss account which is not forfeit shares for such time, on such terms and subject to such required for paying any fixed preferential dividend whether or conditions as it thinks fit.
It may confer such powers either collaterally not such amount is available for distribution.
with, or to the exclusion of their own powers and may from time-toPowers to issue shares time revoke, withdraw, alter or vary all or any of such powers.
Subject to the provisions of the Acts, the Board have unconditional Delegation to committees authority to allot, grant options over or otherwise deal with or The Directors may delegate any of their powers to committees dispose of any unissued shares of the Company to such persons consisting of such members or member of their body as they think at such times and on such terms as the Board may decide.
Any committee so formed shall in the exercise of the powers so Power to pay dividends delegate it conform to any regulations that may be imposed on it by Subject to the provisions of the Acts, the Company may by ordinary the Directors.
resolution declare dividends in accordance with the respective rights Appointment of agent of the shareholders, but no dividend shall exceed the amount The Board may appoint any corporation, firm or person to be the recommended by the Board.
Subject to the provisions of the Acts, agent of the Company and may delegate to any such person or the Board may pay interim dividends if it appears to the Board that persons any of its powers, authorities and discretions not exceeding they are justified by the profits of the Company available for those vested in the Board but with power to sub-delegate, in each distribution.
The Board may also pay, at intervals determined by it, case for such purposes and for such time, on such terms including, any dividend at a fixed rate if it appears to the Board that the profits but not limited to the protection and convenience of persons dealing available for distribution justify the payment.
If the Board acts in with the agent and subject to such conditions as it thinks fit.
The good faith it shall not incur any liability to the holders of shares Board may from time-to-time revoke, withdraw, alter or vary all or conferring preferred rights for any loss they may suffer by the lawful any of such powers.
payment of an interim dividend on any shares having deferred or non-preferred rights.
No dividend or other moneys payable in Minutes respect of a share shall bear interest against the Company unless The Directors shall cause minutes to be made of all appointments of otherwise provided by the rights attached to the share.
officers, of the names of the Directors present at each meeting of Directors and of any committee of Directors and of all resolutions Except as otherwise provided by the rights attached to any class of and proceedings at all meetings of the Company and of the Directors shares, all dividends will be declared and paid according to the and of committees of Directors.
Any such minute if purporting to be amounts paid-up on the shares during any portion of the period in signed by the chairman of the meeting at which the proceedings respect of which the dividend is paid but, if any share is allotted or were held or by the chairman of the next succeeding meeting, shall issued in terms providing that it shall rank for dividend as from a be evidence of the proceedings.
particular date, that share shall rank for dividend accordingly.
Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 99 The Board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the Company, offer any holder of shares the right to elect to receive shares by way of scrip dividend instead of cash in respect of the whole or some part, to be determined by the Board of any dividend.
Any dividend which has remained unclaimed for 12 years from the date when it becomes due for payment shall, if the Board so resolves, be forfeited and cease to remain owing by the Company.
Borrowing powers The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, to mortgage or charge its undertaking, property and uncalled capital, and to issue debentures and subject to the provisions of the Act other securities and to give security whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
The Board is required to restrict the borrowings of the Company and exercise all voting and other rights or powers of control exercisable by the Company in relation to its subsidiary undertakings so as to secure that the aggregate principal amount outstanding at any time in respect of all borrowings by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings will not, without the previous authority of the Company in general meeting, exceed an amount equal to twice the share capital and consolidated reserves of the Company.
Alteration of Articles Section 21 of the 2006 Act provides that the articles of association of a Company may be altered by special resolution and section 22 of the 2006 Act provides that companies may entrench provisions of their articles of association, either on formation or subsequently by unanimous agreement of the shareholders, the result of which is that such entrenched articles may only be altered by the unanimous consent of its shareholders.
Additional information Company financial Consolidated financial Governance Financial review Operating review Chief Executives Chairmans statement statements statements and risks business review 100 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 Investor relations and financial calendar Annual General Meeting b Carbon offset The AGM will be held at 11am on Thursday 5 June 2008 at The Annual report and financial statements, the Annual review and Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Head Office, Gain Lane, Bradford, summary financial statement and the Corporate social responsibility BD3 7DL.
A separate notice convening the meeting is sent to report have been assessed with the assistance of the Carbon Trust shareholders, which includes an explanation of the items of special for the amount of carbon emissions that will be generated in their business to be considered at the meeting.
To offset these carbon emissions a donation has been made to PURE, The Clean Planet Trust, the first Dividend Reinvestment Plan UK registered charity dedicated to combating climate change by The Company has a Dividend Reinvestment Plan which allows offsetting.
More information about PURE can be found on their shareholders to reinvest their cash dividends in the Companys website www.
uk shares bought in the market through a specifically arranged share dealing service.
Full details of the plan and its charges, together with mandate forms, are available from the Registrars.
Morrisons website Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website, www.
co. uk to obtain information on company history, c Recycled paper stores and services, latest offers, press information and a local This document has been printed by The Midas Press on recycled store finder.
paper that is manufactured in mills with ISO 14001 accreditation from 100% recycled fibre.
It is totally chlorine free and is a NAPM Share price information certified recycled product.
The Investor Information section of our website provides our current and historical share price data and other share price tools.
d Photography Share price information can also be found in the financial press All people featured were either customers, colleagues or suppliers and the Cityline service operated by the Financial Times no actors or models were used.
Permission to publish these telephone 0906 843 3545. photographs was received from each individual.
Where minors appear, parental approval was granted.
Online reports and accounts Our Annual and Interim Group accounts are available to download d Photography from the website along with Corporate Social Responsibility reports All people featured were either customers, colleagues or suppliers and other financial announcements.
The information in the Annual no actors or models were used.
Permission to publish these report and financial statements, Annual review and summary photographs was received from each individual.
Where minors financial statement and the Interim reports are exactly the same as appear, parental approval was granted.
e Design Environmental matters The Annual report and financial statements, the Annual review and The effect of our business on the environment is something that summary financial statement in both paper and HTML format, and Morrisons takes very seriously.
In the production of the 2008 the Corporate social responsibility report were designed and Annual reports and accounts, we have contributed to the reduction produced by Likemind 0207 855 5888. in environmental damage in the following ways: Further information about other ways in which the Group is a Website helping with environmental change can be found in the Corporate Morrison shareholders receive a printed copy of the Annual social responsibility report 2008 which can be viewed on the review and summary financial statement.
The full Annual report Morrisons website.
is available for viewing or downloading from the corporate website www.
Shareholders are encouraged to view the report on the website which is exactly the same as the printed Financial calendar 2008 09 version, but using the internet has clear advantages such as Financial events and dividends lowering costs and reducing the environmental impact.
Final dividend record date 02 05 08 Annual General Meeting 05 06 08 Q1 Quarterly management statement 05 06 08 Final dividend payment date 06 06 08 Half year end 27 07 08 Interim results announcement and Interim management statement 11 09 08 Interim dividend record date 10 10 08 Interim dividend payment date 10 11 08 Q3 Quarterly management statement 04 12 08 Financial year end 01 02 09 Preliminary results announcement 12 03 09 Company Secretary Solicitors Jonathan Burke Gordons LLP Riverside West, Whitehall Road Registered office Leeds, LS1 4AW Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Hilmore House Ashurt Gain Lane Broadwalk House, 5 Appold Street Bradford London, EC2A 2KA BD3 7DL Wragge & Co LLP Telephone: 0845 611 5000 55 Colmore Row www.
co. uk Birmingham, B3 2AS Investor Relations Auditors Telephone: 0845 611 5710 KPMG Audit Plc Email: accinvr@morrisonsplc.
co. uk 1 The Embankment, Neville Street Corporate Social Responsibility enquiries Leeds, LS1 4DW Telephone: 0845 611 5000 Stockbrokers Registrars and Shareholding enquiries Hoare Govett Limited Administrative enquiries about the holding of Morrisons shares, 250 Bishopsgate such as change of address, change of ownership, dividend payments London, EC2M 4AA and the Dividend Reinvestment Plan should be directed to: Citigroup Smith Barney Capita Registrars 33 Canada Square, Canary Wharf Northern House London, E14 5LB Woodsome Park Investment Bankers Fenay Bridge NM Rothschild & Sons Limited Huddersfield New Court, 1 St. Swithins Lane HD8 0LA London, EC4P 4DU Telephone: 0871 664 0300 Overseas: 44 208 639 3399 Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
com Shareholder information The number of shareholders at 3 February 2008 were 44,384 4 February 2007: 45,415 and the number of shares in issue was 2,686,071,130 4 February 2007: 2,676,776,258.
Analysis by Shareholder Number of holders % holders Balance at 3 February 2008 % capital Private Shareholder 39,159 88.23 534,202,107 19.9% Nominee companies 4,571 10.29 2,107,745,100 78.5% Limited companies 262 0.60 19,760,543 0.7% Deceased accounts 213 0.48 1,997,830 0.1% Other institutions 83 0.19 7,328,446 0.3% Pension funds 37 0.08 5,407,391 0.2% Investment trusts 33 0.07 320,782 0.0% Bank and bank nominees 20 0.05 9,234,385 0.3% Insurance companies 6 0.01 74,546 0.0% Analysis of size by Shareholder Number of holders % holders Balance at 3 February 2008 % capital 1-1,000 23,501 52.95 10,467,200 0.39% 1,001-10,000 17,947 40.44 52,348,299 1.95% 10,001-1,000,000 2,638 5.94 245,396,509 9.14% Above 1,000,001 298 0.67 2,377,859,122 88.53% Wm Morrison Supermakets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2008 This report is 100% recyclable Fresh choice for you Annual report and 100% recyclable This is our award-winning Recyclopedia logo which we use on our own-brand financial statements 2008 product packaging to inform customers about recyclability.
co. uk Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Fresh choice for you Annual review and summary financial statement 2008 Financial summary Index 01 Chairmans statement 13bn 14.4p 02 A tribute to Sir Ken Morrison Group turnover Underlying 03 Chief Executives business review earnings per share 2007: 12.5bn 6% 04 Who are Morrisons?
on 52 week basis 2007: 8.3p 73% 06 Our key measures 07 Taking good care 08 Our stores 10 Operating review of the year 4.6% 543m 16 Summary Directors Like-for-like sales Net debt remuneration report ex-fuel 19 Summary Directors report 2007: 772m 30% 20 Summary corporate 2007: 5.2% governance report 20 Auditors report 21 Summary financial statement ibc Investor relations information 612m 4.8p Profit before tax Total dividend 2007: 369m 66% 2007: 4.0p 20% Operating review range expanded and revitalised, store refresh programme on track to complete by July 2008, significant increase in customer numbers in the final quarter, eight new stores opened, grocery distribution facility opened in Swindon.
Balance sheet strategy progressive dividend growth, surplus capital of 1bn to be returned to shareholders.
Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2008 01 Chairmans statement Sir Ken Morrison CBE with some healthy sales momentum.
Our profit improvement in the year will provide a profit share pool for staff of 30m, a long standing benefit on top of the very popular staff discount that was launched in the year.
Our staff and customers responded strongly to our charitable activities in the year, and we were pleased to raise over 1.1m for Asthma UK, our chosen Charity of the Year, as well as 0.3m in one day for Children in Need.
In the coming year, our colleagues have chosen to support Protecting Generations for Generations, an innovative partnership between Help the Aged and Childline.
The year under review saw the rise of inflationary cost pressures in a number of basic commodities such as dairy products and wheat.
We fought hard to avoid passing these higher costs onto consumers, and we will continue to strive to operate at low cost in order to ensure maximum value for our customers.
The Competition Commission inquiry into the Grocery sector will In my last statement as Chairman of Morrisons announce its final conclusions in April 2008, some two years after it gives me particular pleasure to be reporting it began.
It has stated, as we all knew, that supermarket retailing record earnings and to see that more customers in the UK is highly competitive.
We see nothing in the provisional than ever before are experiencing the freshness, findings that would cause us to change the way we do business whether providing value and choice to customers, dealing fairly quality and value that Morrisons has to offer.
with suppliers or seeking out new sites.
We are encouraged that a competition test, as proposed, would afford opportunities for The past year saw further steady progress for Morrisons, with a us in areas of the country where we are under-represented.
The solid sales performance and strong profit and cash generation.
Office of Fair Trading OFT inquiry into dairy pricing activities in the early part of the millennium resulted in fines being levied on Profit before tax was 612m compared with 369m last year.
a number of companies, including Safeway for a period prior to it This included 32m of property gains, compared with 38m last coming into our ownership.
The OFT has alleged that Morrisons, year.
Underlying earnings per share EPS increased by 73% to too, was involved, a claim that we deny strongly.
14.4p, whilst basic EPS increased by 123% due to an abnormally low tax charge.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of This is my last statement to shareholders as Chairman.
I have 4.125p per share, to bring the total for the year to 4.8p an been with the business now for some 55 years and must say increase of 20%.
that the experience has been both demanding and fulfilling, but nonetheless it has always been enjoyable.
I am prepared for a Cash generation was strong net debt fell from 772m to situation where I will have more time to look around and I intend 543m despite opening eight new stores, beginning a phase of to develop new interests in a number of fields.
I will keep in additional investment in our Optimisation Plan and contributing touch with the progress of the Company and no doubt maintain an additional 100m to our pension schemes.
From its peak in contact with a number of what will be my former colleagues.
2004 of 1.6bn, net debt has reduced by over 1.0bn through a combination of profit recovery actions, tight capital controls It seems a long time since I was demobilised from the army in and divestment of property that did not fit our operating model.
1952 and started to learn about how to run a retail grocery Following the negotiation of new term debt facilities of 1.1bn business.
I believe that over the years I have learned one or two in September 2007, the Group had available headroom of things, and would set out what I consider to be the important 1.3bn at the year end, with zero net finance cost in the year aspects for my successor.
I think it is important to assume a and gearing of 12.4%.
leading position and to never forget the business principles that we might be a large company and fairly sophisticated but we do As previously reported, David Hutchinson retired from the Board carry out a simple task we buy things and sell them.
Our task is in June 2007 on the grounds of ill health, after 21 years service.
to ensure that we always please the customer with the quality of I am very sorry to report that David passed away in February what we offer for sale and that at all times, we ensure outstanding 2008, after a retirement that was cruelly short.
My thoughts, value for money.
This can only be achieved by strict control of and those of everyone in the Company, are with his widow Diane, all costs and remaining in touch with all aspects of what is a and his family.
The ownership of freehold property and On behalf of the Directors, I would like to thank all our staff for the willingness to invest and re-invest in fixed assets has always another year of exceptionally hard work, and I was delighted for kept the Company in good heart.
This can, of course, be achieved them that their efforts were rewarded as the year progressed whilst also maintaining a prudent balance sheet.
02 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2008 Chairmans statement continued Any success I have achieved in my career has always been due and I am delighted that I enjoyed the confidence of shareholders, to the presence and help of numerous team members who staff and customers alike.
I have never forgotten that retailers possessed great ability, dedication and skill.
I would like to take are always on duty as we are in a dynamic business, seven days this opportunity to thank everyone I have been fortunate enough a week, 52 weeks a year.
to work with over the years and at the same time wish the I am sure the new management team headed by our recently Company every success in the future.
appointed Non-Executive Chairman, Sir Ian Gibson CBE, will I think the present economic climate provides a wonderful spare no effort in further extending your Companys run of opportunity for the Company to continue to prosper as long as success.
it remains true to its founding principles.
It has been great fun, A tribute to Sir Ken Morrison Sir Ken has won the loyalty and admiration of employees throughout On 13 March 2008, Sir Ken Morrison retired as Chairman the business with his down to earth nature and belief in teamof the Group.
Sir Ian Gibson succeeded him as Nonwork: and his pride in the achievements of those around him has Executive Chairman.
never been more apparent than in his desire to attend each and every one of the Groups 25-year service celebrations.
Suppliers Sir Ken has accepted the position of Honorary President.
also hold Sir Ken in high regard and having always shown great In this ambassadorial role, he will continue the strong empathy, he has nurtured many mutually beneficial, long-standing relationship with employees, communities and shoppers which has characterised his long and distinguished career.
relationships that have seen both businesses grow together.
Under Sir Kens stewardship, Morrisons has received wide recognition from the business world, winning many awards.
The Board pays tribute to Sir Ken His personal contribution has also been deservedly recognised We are proud to pay tribute to Sir Ken Morrison on his retirement on many occasions.
Having received a number of industry from the Company after 55 years of inspirational and dedicated accolades, he was awarded the CBE in 1990 and honoured leadership.
During this time he has transformed Morrisons from with a Knighthood in 2000 for his services to retailing.
a small, family business into the UKs fourth largest food retailer Sir Ken is a consummate retailer and his achievements are and a top five food producer, with 375 stores and 117,000 remarkable.
His wholehearted devotion and strength of purpose colleagues, serving over nine million customers a week.
over five decades have taken Morrisons from modest beginnings, An intuitive retailer, Sir Kens passion and flair were evident to national household name.
A creator and builder with great from his early years, when during school holidays he could always passion and flair, his contribution to retailing has been invaluable be found working in the familys market stalls and small shops.
and we owe him a great debt of gratitude for his lifes work.
We This hands-on approach has characterised his career, throughout are privileged to have known and worked with Sir Ken and those which he has never been happier than when out on the shop following in his footsteps will cherish his legacy of success.
floor, taking a personal interest in ensuring customers needs are met.
Sir Ken has always had customers as his focus: not as We wish Sir Ken a well-earned and long and happy retirement.
a business technique, but as a lifelong part of his character, forming his view of what Morrisons should be.
55 years with Morrisons Through bold and innovative leadership Sir Ken has created 1952 Sir Ken joins Morrisons and built the business, from establishing the first out of town 1961 Victoria first supermarket opened self-service supermarket in Bradford, through to expansion 1967 Morrisons floated nationwide with the acquisition and integration of Safeway, which involved the biggest store conversion programme in 1978 Morrisons moves out of Yorkshire with acquisition of Whelan Discount Stores UK retail history.
He has given Morrisons a leading edge with creative in-store features like Market Street and a unique 2000 Sir Ken awarded a Knighthood vertically integrated structure, together with a competitive 2001 Morrisons joined the FTSE 100 offer renowned for always delivering great value for money.
2004 Morrisons acquired Safeway Sir Kens determination to avoid cost and waste throughout his career has underpinned the commitment to that goal.
2008 Sir Ken retires as Chairman Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2008 03 Chief Executives business review Marc Bolland Strategy Our three year strategy, as laid out in our 2007 Annual report, is to position the business as the UKs food specialist for everyone.
This builds on our historic strengths, now applied to a much bigger business following the Safeway acquisition.
As a food specialist, we are differentiating ourselves from our larger competitors, all of whom are seeking to expand their nonfood credentials.
We are emphasising our deep understanding of food, through being closer to source than other retailers, through our unique manufacturing and packing facilities, through the amount of food preparation undertaken in our stores and through the employment of more specialist butchers, fishmongers and bakers than our competitors.
We are also emphasising that our offer is for everyone, compared with our smaller, more expensive and exclusive competitors.
Our great food is also always great value.
Our strategy builds on our strengths, and is in tune with our customers increasing focus on the health, provenance, quality and freshness of the food that they buy.
In order to deliver it fully, we outlined last year the building blocks that needed to be put in place, and our plans to do this by 2010.
The operating review of the year highlights our progress towards these goals.
This has been a strong year for We believe that the strategy has delivered strongly improved profit margins for our shareholders, whilst also positioning the Morrisons, with growing customer Group for long term growth.
We have always delivered good availability and service.
Now we The Group is securely financed and has a strong balance sheet.
We are confident that our planned investment requirements are also recognised for our great fresh over the next two years can be met from existing facilities.
Customer numbers have grown Our balance sheet strategy is based on a number of principles: by an extra half million per week and operational control of our retail stores is fundamental to us, we are well on track to becoming the food specialist for everyone.
we are a prudent organisation and we structure our finances Marc Bolland, Chief Executive accordingly, we wish to maintain a strong investment grade balance sheet, our defined benefit pension schemes assets and liabilities are effectively part of our balance sheet, and should be managed as such.
Based on these principles and a review of our future operating plans, the Board has concluded that surplus capital of 1bn should be returned to shareholders during 2008 and 2009, with 500m of that delivered in the first 12 months of the programme.
Our current intention is to achieve this through a share buyback programme, and we will review progress at the end of the first year of operation.
Additionally, we will target progressive dividend growth in the coming two years, over and above earnings growth, in order to bring dividend cover to a level in line with the rest of our sector.
Funding for these enhanced returns to shareholders will come from existing cash resources and committed facilities available to the Group.
04 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2008 Who are Morrisons?
375 Stores 12 Distribution centres 13 Manufacturing sites 1 in Netherlands 50 Scotland 55 We are a Bradford based food retailer North with 375 stores across Britain, with our own supply chain and manufacturing sites.
Our customers buy in one year: 62 20 36 million 42 Midlands Wales East Bunches of flowers Midlands West 57 50,000 49 South East South Tonnes of fresh chicken 40 Central South West 21,000 Tonnes of fresh beef We are one of the UKs largest food retailers 4th by sales 8,000 2nd by market capitalisation Tonnes of fresh lamb 1 million 117,000 Butternut squashes Average number of our employees during the year 215,000 10 million Tonnes of potatoes Number of customers currently visiting our stores per week 640 13bn Tonnes of olives Total annual turnover 115 million 11 million Ready meals Amount of our retail space sq.
feet 115 million 25,000 Tins of baked beans Number of people preparing food that we sell Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2008 05 We deal directly with many of our suppliers The arable farmers who supply us tell us they appreciate the way we buy the whole crop from their fields, rather than some companies who will only buy part.
Our livestock farmers are happy too, that we buy whole animals and not just certain cuts.
We also supply ourselves from three bakeries, three abattoirs, and seven packhouses and food production sites.
This makes us a Top 5 food producer in the UK.
We deliver to store with our own fleet We own and manage our own distribution network, moving over 16 million cases of product to stores every week.
By owning and operating a very modern fleet, we are able to manage the freshness and quality of the produce and we also have industry-leading turnarounds between order and delivery, being an average of 12 hours.
We operate from 12 distribution centres, with over 700 tractor units and 1,800 trailers, covering up to 156 million kilometres per annum in collecting products from our supplier base and delivering to our stores.
We have more people in-store preparing food than any other retailer Each of our stores has Market Street where you find trained professionals delivering quality product and service.
We employ 1,500 butchers, 2,000 bakers, 800 fishmongers.
Each butcher has the skill to prepare over 150 different cuts of meat and the bakers know how to bake more than 90 different varieties of bread.
Our customers tell us they love the feel of being in a market in our stores In research, the areas which clearly stand out about Morrisons offer are the fresh fish, meat and bread areas combined with our approach to great value and great deals through our promotional programme.
In addition, we pride ourselves on having industry-leading availability so that customers can get the things they want when they visit our stores.
In addition, customers appreciate our specialist customer service which, along with availability, has attracted a Grocer Gold award.
06 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2008 Our key measures Financial objectives Environment Our financial objectives are for sales growth that exceeds the Good progress is being made towards our CSR targets: market, and earnings that meet the expectations of our Reduction targets % shareholders.
Reduction Target Carbon footprint 25 36 Like-for-like sales ex-fuel growth in excess of market Group energy use 5 8 2007 08 2006 07 2005 06 Own brand packaging 7 15 % 1.1 1.2 0.3 Carrier bags 3 25 Adjusted normalised basic earnings per share Society 2007 08 2006 07 2005 06 Each year our customers and employees choose a national Pence 14.4 8.3 1.7 charity, and through fund raising events aim to raise more than 1m for that charity.
Key performance indicators Our monthly reporting to the Board includes a number of 2007 08 Asthma UK 1.1m measures that are considered essential to monitoring the 2006 07 Breast Cancer Research 1.6m performance and development of the Group.
These measures Commitments met have been introduced as new targets for Morrisons to become The following commitments have been met during the year: the food specialist for everyone.
A selection of those are shown on this page.
Business Support British farming through making our meat supplies Financial KPIs exclusively British.
Measure 2007 08 2006 07 2005 06 Like for like sales ex-fuel 4.6% 5.2% 2.4% Society Underlying earnings per share 14.4p 8.3p 1.7p All fresh fish counters certified under the Marine Dividend cover 3.0 2.1 0.5 Stewardship Council, Net debt 543m 772m 1,148m All own brand tissue paper products certified by the Capital expenditure 410m 269m 655m Profit before tax and property Forest Stewardship Council.
income 580m 331m 54m Employee KPIs 52 week Grocery market share 12.1% 11.9% 12.5% Success at Morrisons relies on 117,000 colleagues delivering Total shareholder value Morrisons 204.2 202.8 125.1 Total shareholder value FTSE 100 200.7 203.0 180.2 great service to our customers each and every day.
Customer KPIs Employee satisfaction We have tracked elements of our customer perception using In 2007, the first annual climate survey involving 9,300 Hall & Partners brand tracker, to track the effects of our employees was conducted.
The results were used to help develop advertising and whether it is working for us.
We do not intend Core Employee Values.
These are to be rolled out during 2008. to spend our investors money just for the sake of it, Employee stability we want to spent it right.
Over time, a balance of measures, 2007 08 2006 07 2005 06 % 75.7 71.3 70.0 internal and external, will be developed around the brand values of Fresh, Value and Service.
Definitions Like-for-like sales ex-fuel : Store based sales compared with Change in customer perception since May 2007: the previous year, excluding the impact of new store openings, Fresh 13% store disposals, major refurbishments and extensions.
Employee stability: Employee stability is a % of leavers against Value 5% the total number of employees.
Service 18% Total shareholder value: Total shareholder value is the value of 100 invested in Morrisons shares on 2 Feb 2003.
The increase Corporate Social Responsibility KPIs in value includes any dividend paid.
This is measured over the The CSR agenda is an important topic and it gives us a license to past five years.
The environmental programme that we have previously Carbon footprint: Carbon footprint is calculated using UK outlined has set three year targets, against which we are making Government Waste Strategy Report Guidelines, as recommended good progress.
Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2008 07 Taking good care Corporate Social Responsibility CSR strategy The CSR strategy is aligned with the Groups vision to be food specialist for everyone and to delivering the brand values of fresh, service and value.
It is structured around the areas of Taking good care of shoppers environment, society and business.
CSR governance Work, neighbours and living Championed by Chief Executive, Marc Bolland, turning Employer of choice: Our people remain at the heart of our CSR strategy into reality is governed by the CSR Project Team vision and plans.
Through a series of workshops involving 1,000 comprising Board Directors and senior operational directors.
colleagues, the values that support our strategy to be food The CSR Project Team reports regularly to the Board.
Ongoing specialist for everyone have been developed.
These are being activities are co-ordinated through a steering group for each incorporated in every aspect of our business and are supported CSR strategy area.
Projects and activities are supported by by the introduction of an online Leadership Academy for our working groups and delivered by operational management.
senior managers, and an on-going communications and CSR report engagement strategy.
The full CSR report is available online at www.
co. uk or Be neighbourly: We have continued to support good causes by contacting the CSR Team see inside back cover.
This is an with over 577,000 donated during the year.
The 1m target extract from that report covering the progress made during the set for our Charity of the Year 2007, Asthma UK, was exceeded year in each area.
with colleagues and customers raising 1.1m to help fund vital research projects.
Encourage a better standard of living: Good progress has been made on labelling own brand foods with Guideline Daily Amounts GDAs.
Targets were exceeded for increasing Eat Smart and Free Taking good care of the planet From ranges, and good progress has been made in reducing salt and removing hydrogenated fats from our own brand products.
Climate change, waste and sustainability Carbon footprint reduction: Our carbon reduction strategy includes the implementation of more than 100 projects aimed at reducing our carbon emissions.
During 2007 a total of 115,718 tonnes of carbon has been saved.
A Retail Industry award Taking good care as we go about our business winning training initiative trained over 100,000 colleagues, and contributed 24,734 tons, and a 5% saving of Group energy Sourcing, supply and engagement usage.
Since the baseline of 2005 we have made a cumulative reduction of 374,190 tonnes of carbon, which is 70% of our Product stewardship: The traceability of product and ingredients target.
A significant point of difference between our own Carbon is paramount for food safety and quality.
The successful Footprint and that of our competitors is that emissions from our implementation of a new data system has increased the efficiency manufacturing, processing and packaging are included in our and detail of product information that can be accessed easily.
The targets set for food safety standards, assurance and responsible sourcing continue to be met.
Targets are being Preventing waste: We have achieved 18% of our target to extended to cover farm animal welfare policies, pesticide reduce volume of waste to landfill by 50% by 2010.
A number of residues monitoring and enhanced testing of imported products.
packaging initiatives, including the introduction of Prepared for You packaging for foods freshly prepared in-store, have helped Supply chain integrity: In 2007, the Morrisons Ethical Trading reduce own brand packaging by 7%.
Customer awareness about Code was implemented with suppliers in Africa, Asia and South what can be recycled has been increased through our award America and in 2008 we will be conducting an audit exercise.
Longwinning Recyclopedia own brand packaging labelling scheme.
term relationships with suppliers continue to be developed, built on a foundation of continuing compliance with the Supermarkets Sourcing responsibly: A range of targets including timber from Code of Practice and the Morrisons Buyers Charter.
recycled or certified sustainable sources, fish complying with our sustainable sourcing policy, own brand eggs to be free range, Satisfaction for all stakeholders: Through active participation increasing the range of Organic and Fairtrade products, and with specialist interest groups and forums ranging from indicating the country of origin through labelling, have been met, government initiatives and charitable causes, to specialist CSR exceeded or have made good progress.
forums, we aim to address and meet the needs of key stakeholders.
Society Environment Business 08 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2008 Our stores At the heart of Market Street is the fresh produce section.
Traditional We pride ourselves on providing our customers greengrocer methods combined with the chill-chain from lorry to shelf, with fresh food just the way they like it.
ensure that fresh produce, in the best condition, is available all day.
The greengrocer knows how to handle each product: bananas are hung Thats why we have Market Street, where our and melons are in shies to prevent bruising.
Many vegetables, such as customers will find fresh food prepared by broccoli stems, are trimmed so our customers only pay for what they want.
Our staff are on-hand to give advice and help with selecting our expertly trained staff.
From succulent roast chickens and chicken portions to --- tasty spare ribs and sausages, everything is cooked in-store and served hot from the oven.
Our customers know when our tempting range of pies are ready because well ring a bell.
A huge range of British and Continental delicacies is available --- at our deli counter, from cooked meats to olives and cheese, including locally sourced varieties of cheese in certain stores.
If our customers fancy something new, or are looking for something special, they can just ask our friendly deli staff.
They will be happy to give them a taste before they buy.
Our staff make sandwiches, salads and pizzas fresh in-store --- everyday, using ingredients from in-store.
There are up to 24 varieties of salads to choose from simple potato salad to the more exotic oriental style noodle salad.
The pizza toppings are carefully prepared by hand using the freshest in-store ingredients.
Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2008 09 Whilst other supermarkets have removed food preparation from each of which has its own sense of personality shops within their stores to reduce costs, and traditional tradesmen, such as a shop.
Each area is staffed with employees who know their butchers and greengrocers, are disappearing from the High trade, giving the feel and service of a traditional market.
There Street, Morrisons Market Street has more people in-store is a butcher, a fishmonger, a baker and cake shop where we make preparing more food than any other retailer.
Our supply chain fresh cakes.
There is an area selling pies and roasted meats fresh and our own manufacturing sites ensure that the food and from the oven, and an area preparing freshly assembled salads produce is offered at competitive prices.
and sandwiches, and freshly topped pizzas as well as a delicatessen full of meats and cheeses.
Here every customer Market Street, a unique retail experience, is central to Morrisons can receive advice and assistance about selecting the right food food offer, and sets us apart from other supermarkets.
All our for the right occasion be it the free range turkey, oven prepared fresh food, much of it prepared in-store, is stocked and sold at the Butchers counter for Christmas day, or the vegetables for in Market Street.
Market Street is centred around our fresh a TV chefs latest adventurous recipe.
produce section and contains a number of different areas, Packed full of freshly prepared cakes, doughnuts and all sorts of --- creamy, sticky delights, the Cake Shop is a must for people who have a sweet tooth.
And because our cakes are filled in-store throughout the day, fresh, tasty treats are available all the time that will melt in the mouth.
When we sell any of our fish, it will be filleted and prepared by --- the people who do this best, the in-store fishmongers.
They are on hand all day, every day to advise on the best buys, best choices and best ways to prepare it.
Theyll even advise on how and where every fish was caught.
At our Family Butcher customers will find a friendly real butcher, --- able to cut and prepare meat the way customers want it, when it is wanted the traditional way.
The variety of cuts we offer is larger than any other supermarket, so customers are spoilt for choice.
Nothing beats the aroma of freshly baked bread.
And thats --- exactly what our customers will experience as they approach the Bakery.
Our bakers are busy baking bread in small batches throughout the day.
This means that whenever a Morrisons loaf is purchased, itll have that just-baked freshness.
10 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2008 Operating review of the year Our programme to freshen-up our stores by rolling out a new look through the estate will be completed by July 2008.
Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2008 11 2007 08 was a strong year for Morrisons we delivered good progress on our long term plans and continued the profit recovery momentum of the previous year.
Our debt fell, despite investment for the future.
We opened eight new stores in the year, at Johnstone, Speke, Erskine, Wednesbury, Dundee, Llanelli, York, and Bristol Hartcliffe.
The store in Erskine was a replacement for another store in the town, and at 25,000 square feet was the smallest new Morrisons opened for many years.
We are pleased with its initial performance and will be looking for more such sites.
Additionally, we carried out a number of extensions of stores, with 13 extensions of retail space and 18 extensions of warehousing space to cope with the growing volumes passing through the stores.
We ended the year with 375 stores and a total of 10,835k square feet of retail space, growth of 3.0% on the start of the year.
Turnover grew by 4.1% to 13.0bn, a 6.0% increase after adjusting for the effect of a 53 week year in 2006 07.
Like for like store sales increased by 4.6% with both customer numbers and average basket spend increasing.
As in the previous year, the strongest sales growth was achieved in Scotland and the South of England, but it was pleasing also to see growth in the Groups traditional Northern heartland after two challenging years.
Our health and beauty department, revamped in 146 stores in 2006 07, showed growth, but not as much as we had aimed for.
We are trialling a new, revised format which we believe will yield more positive results.
Our home and leisure department showed good growth, albeit this was from CDs and DVDs at low margin.
New, broader ranges will be introduced in the coming year.
We continued to see strong trends towards customers choosing higher quality, more healthy food with sales of our Eat Smart range up 35%, the Best up 25% and Organics up 14%.
Our forecourts business is important in attracting traffic to our stores, and we ensure that our pricing is highly competitive.
Total litreage grew by 2.9%, a reflection of the traffic growth.
Market Street York store, Foss Islands Retail Park With the continued delivery of the Groups Optimisation Plan, first announced in 2006, profit growth significantly outstripped turnover growth.
Gross profit increased by 29%, from 636m to 818m, reflecting the benefit of many initiatives detailed further in this Operating review.
Administrative expenses have remained flat compared to 2007.
Advertising activity has been significantly increased to support the rebranding campaign in the second half of the year, and these additional costs were offset by efficiency savings elsewhere.
After the cost of products, our two biggest costs are store wages costs and distribution costs.
In both areas, we continued to make strides to improve our efficiency.
Store labour productivity 12 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2008 Operating review of the year continued increased by 6% year on year, following a 14% improvement in and significant reductions in salt, from our own label ranges.
The cost to deliver each case through our We launched a new range of healthy food for children called distribution network reduced by 9.4% year on year, with not Kids Smart, designed to be delicious, nutritious and healthy.
only financial benefits but also significant environmental The fresh fruit in the range, for example, is carefully selected benefits in terms of 3.4 million fewer miles travelled.
to include smaller, sweeter varieties of apple and pear.
Our programme to tailor each in-store range more closely to the local We were pleased, in the year, to win a number of important customer base continued for example we now stock a range of industry awards, reflecting great achievements of our colleagues Polish products in over 100 stores, and we have successfully throughout the business.
Foremost amongst these were the trialled local sourcing in a small number of stores.
In our Grocer Gold Awards for Service and for Availability, the National dialogue with our customers, we find that they strongly support Recycling Awards for Best Supermarket Recycling Initiative British agriculture, and we are proud to reflect that sentiment by Scheme and the International Wine Challenge with 147 Gold confirming that we will only stock fresh beef, pork and in-season Commendations.
We are closer to source than any other major food retailer.
Optimisation Plan progress I outlined last year our plans to sharpen our image, with a Last year, having achieved our initial targets for cost programme to freshen-up our stores.
The new look is rolling out reduction and margin improvement, I outlined a detailed through our estate, and by July 2008 the work will be complete.
programme for the next stage of development for Morrisons, At this stage, all store exteriors and approximately 140 interiors with the overall aim of becoming the food specialist for have been completed.
The programme covers the exterior and everyone.
I explained what we mean by this: interior signage of the stores, our filling stations, our trucks and our Market Street counters.
The total cost of the work will Food Specialist We really understand food average less than 0.5m per store, reflecting the care that has we know where it comes from been taken to ensure that the new design is cost effective.
we pack it and make it in our factories It has been well received by customers.
we make it in our stores we employ craft skills in every store Being the food specialist for everyone means not just providing great products but also great value, and that has always been a For everyone Great food which is also great value strength of Morrisons.
We were first to market with Spring Lamb, Great food which is for every day, a wonderful product, sourced from British farmers at fair market not just special days rates and offered to customers at a price over 20% below competitors.
A number of our Christmas products were rated We made good strides in the past year in building on our very highly our Christmas cake outscored similar products food specialist credentials.
In many cases, this has been about from competitors in taste tests, but at half the price of some.
showing more clearly to our customers the things that we Griffith Park sparkling ros, at 4.99, beat off many champagnes already do.
In some cases, too, we have needed to make costing over 20 at the Effervescents du Monde awards in improvements.
Our meat is butchered the old fashioned way, France.
It was exclusive to Morrisons.
This is what being the food in-store rather than in a factory, by highly-trained butchers.
specialist for everyone is all about showing to our customers Much of our bread is freshly baked overnight and throughout that great food does not have to be expensive food.
the day, from scratch using flour, yeast and water.
Our awardIn support of the changes taking place in-store, we launched an winning fish bar is laid out fresh every day.
Salads are chopped, advertising campaign in the second half of the year designed to sandwiches are made, pizzas prepared and cakes topped with attract new customers to come and try us.
This local, fresh preparation, provides a real quality on our in-store food production and our food provenance advantage, and was not necessarily being appreciated by all our knowledge, which we know appeals to customers.
We introduced new packaging and labelling during pleased with the success of this campaign it told customers the year which clearly shows the products that have been made things they did not know about Morrisons, and they liked what in-store.
And we are undertaking a programme to open up many they heard.
We welcomed many new customers into our stores of the areas of Market Street where food preparation takes place, towards the end of the year as a result and, very importantly, so that customers can see at first hand what we do.
We previously had work to do to improve our product range.
Our colleagues are vital to delivering our success to be the We made strides in the year, with an increase in range from food specialist for everyone demands a higher level of service 28,000 to 30,000 lines and the relaunch of over 8,000 lines and knowledge in our stores.
We believe we are the largest in total.
The work included the removal of all hydrogenated fats Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2008 13 Fresh choice for you advertising campaign Background Morrisons has always been associated with low prices and, particularly, great offers.
What Morrisons hasnt shouted about is its high-quality food.
This is a perception issue, and a perception issue that has been holding Morrisons back, not just in the former Safeway stores but also in the heartland.
The reality is that every day Morrisons makes and prepares more food fresh in-store than any other supermarket meat cut fresh in-store every day, fish brought fresh into store having never been frozen, bread baked from scratch every day, sandwiches and cakes made fresh each day theres a whole fresh food story that consumers are completely unaware of.
The objective of the new advertising campaign was simple get customers and non-customers to appreciate the strength and quality of Morrisons food offering.
The opportunity Interest in the quality of food and where it comes from is now mass market.
As a mass market retailer committed to fresh food, Morrisons has the opportunity to become the food specialist for everyone, more mass market than Waitrose, M&S and Sainsbury, more of a food specialist than ASDA or Tesco.
The creative strategy The new advertising campaign features well known but down to earth shoppers, Denise van Outen, Gabby Logan, Nick Hancock, Diarmuid Gavin, Alan Hansen and Lulu, demanding the freshest food when they go shopping demands that Morrisons are able to fulfil through Market Street, with each Market Street expert preparing the food fresh and to order.
Results The new campaign has been instantly successful.
Customers have described it as a real eye-opener, perceptions of food quality are rising, and the commercial metrics are positive.
14 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2008 Operating review of the year continued employer of craft skills butchers, bakers, fishmongers in the In outlining our Optimisation Plan last year, I highlighted a country, and we have 25,000 people employed in producing the number of areas where our infrastructure required further food that we sell.
investment, in distribution, manufacturing and in systems.
In distribution, we successfully opened a new grocery depot in Our 117,000 people are also our customers, and we were Swindon to serve stores in the South and West, relocating the delighted to introduce a discount scheme for them for the activity from Tamworth.
This saved 2.9m miles of transportation first time, in November 2007.
Given that the weekly food bill and allowed us to sell the surplus depot.
A new regional represents a significant part of household budgets, this is a distribution centre at Sittingbourne, in Kent, is expected to open key benefit for our staff.
Our stability index, a measure of the in 2010. proportion of our colleagues who have been with us for over one year, improved from 71.3% to 75.7% in the year.
This is not In manufacturing, the development of our new abattoir in yet high enough, and we will continue to implement initiatives Spalding continued, and it will open fully in the second half of to encourage our best staff to stay longer with us.
We wish 2008 by that stage all our fresh beef, pork and in-season lamb to invest in skills, and take out work where we can be more will not only be British but also will be processed through our efficient.
Our trials of self scan checkouts were successful in own facilities.
We made progress in completing our chill chain the year, and we intend to roll these out to over 200 stores.
through the manufacturing and distribution businesses, and all products that we wish to chill now arrive at the back door of our I was pleased to complete our senior management team during stores in chilled condition.
the past year, with the appointment of new HR, Marketing, and Home and Leisure Directors.
Additionally, upon the retirement Our programme to replace all the major systems in the business of David Hutchinson as Production Director we chose not to got underway in 2007.
The first stages involved hardware and replace this main Board position, instead creating two separate software selection and the overall design of the new systems.
roles Manufacturing Director and Distribution Director, both The first major systems implementation will be a new Group HR promoted from within.
The senior team has come together and payroll system, which will go live in late 2008 and will be one well around our Optimisation Plan agenda, and I am pleased of the largest and most advanced payrolls in the UK.
Thereafter, that we now have a stable and complete team driving the the programme of systems renewal will run throughout 2009 leadership agenda.
The importance to society of large corporations acting The overall investment requirements for the Optimisation Plan, responsibly is growing, and Morrisons is determined to play outlined last year, are 450m over and above normal capital its full part.
In 2007 we published our first Corporate Social investment, and the programme will run to 2010.
In 2007 only Responsibility report, which highlighted our activities in this 68m of this was incurred as many of the programmes were in area and set out some ambitious targets for reductions in carbon the enabling stages, but investment will accelerate in 2008. emissions, energy usage and wastage.
We have not changed our estimate of the overall costs.
We made good progress in many areas in the past year overall carbon emissions were down by 25% on 2005 70% of the way towards our target of a 36% reduction.
This has been achieved by installing new refrigeration in our stores, with less leakage of coolant, by training our colleagues to be more aware of energy efficiency, resulting in a 5% reduction in Group energy usage, and by beginning to re-equip our vehicle fleet with more efficient engines.
Customers are concerned to contribute to the environmental agenda, and improved recycling disciplines can help greatly.
In addition to providing recycling facilities at most of our stores, we launched an information campaign called Recyclopedia last year.
It seeks to inform customers, through simple graphics, of the recycling options available for the packaging concerned.
We were pleased that this initiative won a National Recycling award.
Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2008 15 In early 2008, Morrisons launched a new format magazine available free in-store for all its customers.
This quarterly magazine is packed full of health tips, inspiring food ideas and recipes, and loads of information about what is on offer in-store.
This brief extract from the first edition is about the Experts that operate in Market Street.
Everything at the deli is freshly There are more than 50 varieties of fish available at the cut and weighed in front of the counter, none of which have been previously frozen.
When customer, so they get exactly we say fresh, we really mean fresh, explains Kurtis.
Unless, that is, we sell depends on what the fishermans caught recently.
The express Occasionally this means customers might not find a particular deli is there for people who variety theyre looking for.
If someones looking for a specific want the same quality products type of fish for a recipe and its not available because we without the wait, explains dont accept anything thats not straight out of the sea Lorna.
We pre-weigh, package well suggest alternatives that will work just as well.
and price it in store so its We have lots of regulars, explains Liz.
One woman comes ready for you to take to the till.
According to Lorna, its the in every morning to buy her lunch and frequently tells us how amazing displays, brilliant service and massive choice that much she loves the takeaway food because its so fresh.
The huge range of cheese That kind of comment makes my job worthwhile.
16 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2008 Summary Directors remuneration report Over the past two years the Remuneration Committee has reshaped Long-term incentive plan remuneration packages of senior executives to make them more The long-term incentive plan was approved at the AGM in May performance-related and to ensure that the Group is able to recruit, 2007.
The plan was designed to reward management for achieving retain and motivate high calibre individuals.
the Groups strategic objectives and to provide an appropriate level of long-term performance pay.
Each year, participants receive A substantial proportion of the Executive Directors pay is now conditional awards of shares in the Group which will normally vest performance-related.
The table below demonstrates the balance three years after they are awarded, subject to the satisfaction of between fixed and performance-related pay for the Chief Executive performance conditions measured over a three-year period and at target and maximum performance levels.
The plans individual annual limit is 300% of assumes the achievement of maximum bonus and full vesting of salary face value of shares.
shares under the long-term incentive plan LTIP.
Performance measures are 75% based on earnings per share EPS Performance related versus fixed remuneration and 25% based on like-for-like non-fuel sales growth.
No awards % can vest under the sales targets unless threshold EPS targets have Target been met.
For the awards intended to be granted in April 2008, the following Maximum targets will apply.
25% of the EPS related component of the award will vest if the Groups EPS in 2010 11 is 19.6p per share rising on 0102030405060708090 100 a pro rata basis until 100% vests for an EPS of 23.5p per share.
Fixed pay base salary and pension, excluding benefits Bonus LTIP 25% of the sales growth related component will vest if the Groups like-for-like non-fuel sales grow by 3% per annum compound rising Base salary and benefits on a pro rata basis until there is 100% vesting for growth of 5% per The policy has continued to move towards setting mid-market annum compound.
The Remuneration Committee considers that salaries in the context of fully competitive total packages with a the targets set are demanding in the context of the Groups substantial proportion being subject to the performance of the circumstances and take into account the prospects for growth.
Under share ownership guidelines, Directors are expected to retain Executive Director base salary levels, with effect from 1 February 50% of vested LTIP awards net of tax until such time as they own 2008, are as follows: shares worth 100% of their salary after which point they will be Marc Bolland 757,050 expected to retain, as a minimum, this level of holding.
Mark Gunter 540,750 Pension arrangements Martyn Jones 425,000 The Executive Directors, with the exception of Marc Bolland, Roger Owen 494,400 ticipate in the Groups Defined Benefit Pension Scheme.
Pension par Richard Pennycook 519,120 entitlements accrue at the rate of 1 30th for each year, with a maximum pension of 2 3rds pensionable salary at age 62.
Benefits include health insurance, transport costs and telephone expenses.
Pensionable earnings, subject to pensionable pay rules and calculations, are capped at the maximum earnings limit which in Annual bonus 2007 08 is 112,800 although Roger Owen, who joined the scheme The Remuneration Committee operated an Annual Bonus Plan for before this limit was introduced, is not subject to this limit.
Richard Executive Directors and other senior managers during 2007 08.
Pennycook, Mark Gunter and Martyn Jones, who are subject to the For 2007 08 the maximum bonus was 100% of base salary, with earnings cap, receive a cash supplement of 10% of salary in excess measurement based upon profit before taxation excluding of the cap.
Marc Bolland is not in the pension scheme but instead exceptionals and personal objectives, as set out below: receives a salary supplement of 30% of salary.
Sir Ken Morrison is in Measures % of bonus potential receipt of a pension from the scheme, in addition to his emoluments Profit before tax, excluding exceptionals 80% shown on page 18.
His pension amounted to 181,702 in the period.
Personal objectives 20% No contributions were paid or are payable by any Directors under No bonus was payable for the achievement of personal objectives the terms of the scheme.
There are no enhanced early retirement unless the minimum profit targets had been achieved.
Post-retirement pensions increase in line with the annual actual amounts paid for 2007 08 are set out in the Directors increase in the retail price index or by 5% per annum compound, emoluments table on page 18. whichever is the lower.
The 2008 09 Annual Bonus Plan for the Executive Directors will be similar in design to the plan for 2007 08 with an 80 20 ratio of profit and personal objective targets respectively.
The maximum bonus for Executive Directors will remain at 100% of base salary.
Executive Directors are no longer eligible to participate in profitsharing arrangements.
Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2008 17 Directors contracts The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors other than the Executive Directors Chairman is a matter for the Chairman and Executive members of All Executive Directors have a service agreement without expiry the Board and is reviewed from time to time with regard to the time dates.
These contracts can be terminated by either the Group or commitment required and the level of fees paid in comparable Director giving 12 months notice.
Following a review of service companies.
Non-Executive Directors receive no benefits from their contracts for Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee office other than fees and are not eligible to participate in the adopted a new model contract which provides that any Groups pension arrangements.
The current levels are as follows: compensation provisions for termination without notice will only Senior Committee Independent extend to 12 months of salary, benefits and pension which may Base Chairmanship Director Total be payable in instalments and subject to mitigation and agreed Name 000 000 000 000 that going forward, all new Director contracts would be on that B Flanagan 45 45 1 basis.
The model contract does not contain change of control I Gibson 125 125 provisions.
This policy was applied to Marc Bolland at the time of P Manduca 45 10 10 65 his recruitment and was applied to Mark Gunter, Martyn Jones and S Murray 45 10 55 Roger Owen on 5 April 2007.
Richard Pennycooks contract provides N Robertson 45 45 that he has an obligation to mitigate his loss in the event of Total 305 20 10 335 termination in breach of contract.
1 Following Sir Ian Gibsons appointment as Non-Executive Chairman from 14 March 2008, this annual fee will increase to 300,000.
Notice period from Name of Director Date of contract Company months Performance graph M Bolland 7 Jun 2006 12 The following graph shows the Groups total shareholder return M Gunter 5 Apr 2007 12 TSR compared against the TSR of the FTSE 100 and FTSE Food M Jones 5 Apr 2007 12 & Drug Retailers indices.
These indices have been selected as 1 K Morrison 1 Sep 2005 12 being appropriate in giving a broad equity view and the Group R Owen 5 Apr 2007 12 is a constituent of both indices.
R Pennycook 23 May 2006 12 Total shareholder return 1 The date of the contract for Sir Ken Morrison is collectively based on letters of Source: Thomson Financial appointment dated 23 January 2003, 23 June 2005 and 1 September 2005 the latter of these dates is displayed above.
250 The date of contract for D Hutchinson, who resigned from the Board 200 with effect from 30 June 2007, was collectively based on letters of appointment dated 23 January 2003, 23 June 2005 and 1 September 150 2005.
100 Sir Ken Morrison will retire from the Board on 13 March 2008.
Roger Owen tendered his resignation on 25 October 2007 and will leave 50 the business at the end of the current financial year.
On the basis that 2 Feb 03 1 Feb 04 30 Jan 05 29 Jan 06 04 Feb 07 3 Feb 08 Wm Morrison FTSE Food and Drug Retail FTSE 100 full notice will be served, there will be no termination payments made in relation to his contract.
Roger Owen will participate in the Annual Bonus Plan for 2008 09 and will receive an award under the LTIP in April 2008.
In line with best practice, LTIP awards that have been granted to Roger Owen will vest three years from grant, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, with amounts pro-rated to reflect the period of time between grant date and leaving date.
Non-Executive Directors Brian Flanagan, Paul Manduca, Susan Murray and Nigel Robertson have been appointed for a three year period from their dates of appointment, unless otherwise terminated earlier by, and at the discretion of, either party upon one months written notice.
Sir Ian Gibson has been appointed for a three year period from date of appointment unless otherwise terminated earlier by, and at the discretion of, either party upon 12 months written notice.
Value of Hypothetical 100 Holding 18 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2008 Summary Directors remuneration report continued Directors emoluments and pension entitlements The emoluments of the Directors were as follows: Total Total Directors Benefits Pension Profit Annual Integration year to year to salaries fees in kind supplement share bonus bonus 3 Feb 2008 4 Feb 2007 Name of Director 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman K Morrison 675 40 21 736 736 Executive Directors M Bolland 721 45 217 706 1,689 871 M Gunter 515 35 41 502 1,093 990 3 D Hutchinson 256 12 268 910 1 7 M Jones 355 28 23 380 194 980 R Owen 494 35 480 1,009 914 8 R Pennycook 494 128 38 485 1,145 1,483 Non-Executive Directors B Flanagan 45 45 58 2 I Gibson 52 52 P Manduca 65 65 56 S Murray 55 55 53 N Robertson 45 45 43 Former Directors 4 M Melnyk 3,614 5 R Stott 2,149 6 D Jones 29 Total 3,772 323 319 21 2,553 194 7,182 11,906 Appointed to the Board with effect from: Resigned from the Board with effect from: 1 9 March 2007.
7 Following the acquisition of Safeway in March 2004, the Group implemented a one-off cash-based incentive scheme to below Board executives who would play a key role in the integration process.
Martyn Jones award, which was granted on 1 September 2004 and which vested on 1 September 2007, was subject to continued employment with the amount ultimately paid being determined by the Groups share price on the date the award vested.
8 Benefits in kind comprise relocation costs and disturbance allowances for Richard Pennycook negotiated at the time of his recruitment, transport costs, health insurance and telephone expenses.
The following Directors had accrued entitlements under defined benefit schemes as follows: Increase in accrued Transfer pension value of the excluding increase Transfer value Transfer value Accrued inflation in in accrued Accrued of accrued of accrued Movement in pension at year ended pension during pension at pension at pension at transfer value 4 Feb 2007 3 Feb 2008 the year 3 Feb 2008 4 Feb 2007 3 Feb 2008 during the year Name 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors M Gunter 42 3 36 47 505 491 14 9 9 D Hutchinson 180 30 459 210 2,918 3,561 643 M Jones 26 4 40 30 296 319 23 R Owen 296 14 226 321 4,856 5,278 422 R Pennycook 5 3 29 8 46 70 24 Total 549 54 790 616 8,621 9,719 1,098 9 As at 30 June 2007.
More information This is a summary of the Directors remuneration report which appears in the Annual report and financial statements 2008.
Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2008 19 Summary Directors report Summary financial statement Annual General Meeting The Summary financial statement on pages 21 to 24, the Summary Notice of the 2008 AGM of the Company to be held at the Directors remuneration report on pages 16 to 18, the Summary Companys Head Office at Gain Lane in Bradford on 5 June 2008 Directors report on this page, and the Summary corporate is sent to shareholders with the Annual review and summary governance report on page 20 are summaries of the information financial statement with an accompanying explanatory letter from contained in the Annual report and financial statements 2008. the Chairman.
The Directors believe each of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM is in the best interests of the Group The Directors report, the full financial statements, and the Auditors and recommend shareholders to vote in favour of each of them.
report are contained in the Annual report and financial statements 2008.
The Auditors report on those financial statements was Beneficial owners of shares with information rights unqualified and did not include a reference to any matters to which Beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the the auditors drew attention by way of emphasis without qualifying registered holder of those shares to receive information rights their report and did not contain a statement under s237 2 or under s146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to direct all s237 3 Companies Act 1985.
The aim of the Annual review is to communications to the registered holder of their shares rather provide shareholders with the key financial information in a clear and than to the Companys registrar, Capita Registrars, or to the concise manner.
Therefore the Annual review and summary financial Group directly.
statement does not contain sufficient information to allow as full an Current Directors of the Group understanding of the results of the Group, its state of affairs or the policies and arrangements concerning Directors remuneration, as is 1 Sir Ken Morrison CBE Non-Executive Directors provided in the Annual report and financial statements.
retired as Chairman on 7 Sir Ian Gibson 13 March 2008 appt.
as Deputy Chairman Principal activity 2 Marc Bolland 1 September 2007 and became The principal activity of the Group is the operation of retail Chief Executive Chairman 14 March 2008 supermarket stores and associated activities.
8 Brian Flanagan Executive Directors 9 Paul Manduca 3 Mark Gunter Result and dividend Senior Independent Director 4 Martyn Jones The profit for the period after tax amounted to 554m 2007: 248m.
10 Susan Murray 5 Roger Owen The Directors propose to pay a final dividend for the period of 4.125p 11 Nigel Robertson 6 Richard Pennycook on 6 June 2008 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 2 May 2008, making a total dividend of 4.8p 2007: 4.0p.
David Hutchinson retired from the Board on 30 June 2007. Business review Richard Pennycook aged 44 and Mark Gunter aged 49 retire by Sections and summarised extracts from the Business and financial rotation, and Sir Ian Gibson aged 61 retire at the first AGM review contained in the Annual report and financial statements are following his appointment.
All of them have service contracts with included on pages 3 to 15. a rolling 12-month notice period.
All of them, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the AGM.
6 2 1 11 5 9 7 4 10 3 8 20 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2008 Summary corporate governance report During the year the Group complied with the Combined Code with The Committees of the Board and the matters reserved for the the exceptions that the Board did not comprise at least half NonBoard remain unaltered.
The Audit Committee is responsible Executive Directors, and the Audit Committee did not have a for the integrity of financial reporting, internal controls and risk member with recent relevant financial experience.
The recruitment management, whistle-blowing arrangements as well as the of an additional Non-Executive Director is in progress and will appointment of and relationships with the external auditors.
address both of these points.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for the composition of the Board and the appointment of directors as required.
The As reported last year, the Group had a whistle-blowing process that Remuneration Committee is responsible for maintaining and did not comply with the Combined Code.
This was addressed by reviewing remuneration strategy in the Group.
The full terms of implementing a new process in February 2008. reference of these Committees, the schedule of matters reserved The operational committees have been restructured and formalised.
for the Board along with the full Corporate governance report can They comprise the Executive Board, Property Board and www.
co. uk be found on the corporate website Manufacturing & Distribution Board.
Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC We have examined the summary financial statement which Basis of opinion comprises the Summary consolidated income statement on page 21, We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The Summary consolidated balance sheet on page 21, Summary auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by consolidated cash flow statement on page 21 and the Summary the Auditing Practices Board.
Our report on the Groups full annual Directors remuneration report set out on pages 16 to 18. financial statements describes the basis of our audit opinion on those financial statements and the Directors remuneration report.
This statement is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our Opinion work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with members those matters we are required to state to them in such a the full annual financial statements, the Directors report and the statement and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted Directors remuneration report of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other for the 52 week period ended 3 February 2008 and complies with than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act work, for this statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors We have not considered the effects of any events between the date The Directors are responsible for preparing the summarised annual on which we signed our report on the full annual financial review in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
statements 12 March 2008 and the date of this statement.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within the annual review with the full annual financial statements, the Directors report and the Directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant KPMG Audit Plc requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the Chartered Accountants regulations made thereunder.
Registered Auditor Leeds We also read the other information contained in the Annual review and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of 24 April 2008 any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2008 21 Summary financial statement 52 weeks ended 3 February 2008 Summary consolidated income statement 2008 2007 Note m m Turnover 5 12,969 12,462 Gross profit 818 636 Other operating income 30 21 Administrative expenses 268 272 Profits arising on property transactions 7 32 38 Operating profit 612 423 Net finance costs 54 Profit before taxation 612 369 Taxation 6 58 121 Profit for the financial period 554 248 Earnings per share pence basic 2 20.79 9.32 diluted 2 20.67 9.31 Ordinary dividend per share pence Interim paid 1 0.675 0.625 Final proposed 1 4.125 paid 3.375 Total dividend 4.800 4.000 Summary consolidated balance sheet 2008 2007 Note m m Property assets 7 6,687 6,602 Current assets and liabilities excluding debt 1,135 1,082 Deferred tax 424 478 Net pension liabilities 8 68 198 Provisions 9 139 145 Net debt 11 543 772 Net assets 4,378 3,927 Called-up share capital 269 268 Share premium 57 41 Merger reserve 2,578 2,578 Retained earnings and hedging reserves 1,474 1,040 Total equity 4,378 3,927 Summary consolidated cash flow statement 2008 2007 Note m m Cash flows from operations 10 756 704 Proceeds from disposals 7 94 158 Capital expenditure 7 402 257 Sale and issue of shares 17 5 Tax, interest and servicing of finance 128 109 Dividends 108 98 Cash flow 229 403 Other non-cash movements 27 Opening net debt 772 1,148 Closing net debt 11 543 772 22 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2008 Summary financial statement continued 52 weeks ended 3 February 2008 1 Ordinary dividends Pence per share 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Interim dividend 0.675 0.625 0.625 0.625 0.550 Final dividend 4.125 3.375 3.075 3.075 2.700 Total dividend 4.800 4.000 3.700 3.700 3.250 A final dividend of 4.125p has been proposed, taking the total for the year to 4.8p.
This represents total dividend growth of 20% 2007: 8.1%.
Subject to approval at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 6 June 2008 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 2 May 2008.
2 Earnings per share Unadjusted earnings per share are shown on page 21.
The Directors consider that adjusted and underlying earnings per share measures referred to in the Chairmans statement and CEOs review provide additional useful information for shareholders on underlying trends and performance.
2008 2007 pence pence Underlying normalised earnings per share basic 14.4 8.3 diluted 14.3 8.3 Adjusted earnings per share basic 19.7 8.3 diluted 19.6 8.3 3 Adjusted and underlying normalised earnings The adjustments are made to reported profit to: a remove profits arising on property transactions since these profits do not form part of the Groups principal activities, b remove income statement volatility within net pension interest income caused by market conditions, c to apply an effective tax rate of 32%, being an estimated normalised tax rate, since the current years effective tax rate is considerably lower due to reasons set out in note 6.
Underlying normalised earnings are: 2008 2007 m m Profit before tax 612 369 Adjustments for Profits arising on property transactions 32 38 Adjustments for net pension interest income 17 7 Underlying earnings before tax 563 324 Normalised tax charge at 32% tax rate 180 104 Underlying earnings after normalised tax charge 383 220 Adjusted earnings are: 2008 2007 m m Profit after tax 554 248 Adjustments for Profits arising on property transactions net of tax 29 27 Adjusted earnings 525 221 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2008 23 8 Pension liabilities 4 Share performance The Group has two defined benefit retirement schemes and one The Companys total shareholder return performance i. e. share vements plus dividends reinvested over the last five years defined contribution scheme.
price mo relative to the FTSE 100 and the FTSE Food and Drug Retailers During the year a review of the two defined benefit pension schemes indices is shown on page 17. was completed.
A range of measures have been agreed designed to 3 Feb 4 Feb 29 Jan strengthen the schemes, reduce their volatility, lower future costs, 2008 2007 2006 m m m and eliminate the deficit.
A contribution of 100m from the Group Total shareholder return has been made in the financial year and a further 100m will be Morrisons 204.2 202.8 125.1 made in 2008 09.
These measures and the contributions will Total shareholder return eliminate the deficit shown in the balance sheet.
FTSE 100 200.7 203.0 180.2 Movement in the net pension liability The table shows the value of 100 invested in Morrisons shares m on 2 February 2003 compared with the value of 100 invested in the Net pension deficit at 4 February 2007 198 FTSE 100 Index from the same date.
Funding above annual service cost 148 Interest cost greater than asset return 95 5 Turnover Strengthening longevity assumptions 127 2008 2007 m m Higher discount factor 122 Sale of goods in-stores 10,439 10,087 Impact of triennial valuation 70 Fuel 2,443 2,301 Other 12 Total store based sales 12,882 12,388 Net pension deficit at 3 February 2008 68 Direct manufacturing sales 27 28 Net pension deficit at 4 February 2007 198m Income from concessions and commission 60 46 Pension liabilities in excess of the fair value of the Total turnover 12,969 12,462 schemes assets.
Turnover is shown excluding VAT.
Funding above annual service cost 148m 100 additional contribution has been made into the 6 Taxation schemes being the first of two instalments designed to The tax charge in the year of 58m represents a tax rate of 9.5%, eliminate the deficit.
which is below a normal rate for the following reasons.
Interest cost greater than asset return 95m The current corporation tax charge of 142m was lower than the The downturn in the equity markets at the end of 2007 charge expected at a normal tax rate, which would have been and early 2008 eliminated any gains or returns on assets 184m.
This was largely as a result of a tax deduction in respect of leaving a net interest cost.
a 100m special cash contribution to the Groups pension schemes Strengthening longevity assumptions 127m and also the benefit of final agreement with respect to the broughtWe have increased the average life expectancy of a member forward tax position for Safeway.
retiring at the age of 65 at the balance sheet date from 19.9 years to 22.2 years for males and from 22.8 years to An additional contributor to the low effective tax rate was the 24.7 years for females in line with the latest advice from the change of the UK corporation tax rate from 30% to 28%.
change required the Group to recalculate its deferred tax liabilities, Higher discount factor 122m resulting in a partial release of the deferred tax provision.
The volatility in the capital markets has caused us to change the discount rate applied to the scheme assets.
7 Property Impact of triennial valuation 70m We opened eight new stores, compared with four in the previous An actuarial valuation took place on one of the schemes year, as well as the fitting out of the new Swindon depot and the on 1 April 2007. acquisition and development costs of the new Spalding abattoir Other 12m.
planned to open in the second half of 2008.
The programme to Net pension deficit at 3 February 2008 68m freshen-up our stores started in 2007 and is expected to be Pension liabilities in excess of the fair value of the completed by July 2008.
All capital expenditure was fully funded schemes assets.
There were a small number of individual divestments of surplus, nonretail property, which generated proceeds of 94m and provided a profit on disposal of 32m.
24 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2008 Summary financial statement continued 52 weeks ended 3 February 2008 9 Provisions 11 Net debt Property During the year, the outstanding amount of net debt fell from Restructuring provisions Total m m m 772m to 543m.
This reduction in debt levels was a consequence At 4 February 2007 50 95 145 of the improving profit performance of the business and lower levels At 3 February 2008 29 110 139 of capital investment than we originally anticipated.
The bonds, acquired with the Safeway acquisition in 2004, constitute Restructuring provision the major component of borrowings within net debt.
The next bond The restructuring provision of 29m includes 20m for ongoing repayment is due in April 2010.
Outstanding loan notes amounting activity associated with the 2007 08 rebranding initiative described to 2m will mature in 2008 and will be repaid from operational in the Chief Executives review.
This programme will be complete by cash flow.
The Group entered into a new revolving credit facility in September Property provisions 2007 with eight banks providing committed facilities of 1.1bn for The property provision of 110m comprise petrol filling station five years.
At the balance sheet date the facility was undrawn.
With decommissioning reserve, onerous lease provision and provision this facility and the bonds the Group now has available committed for dilapidations on leased buildings.
The onerous lease provision facilities of 1,800m 2007: 1,450m maturing between 2010 is the largest component at 73m at 3 February 2008 and is to cover and 2018. the shortfall between expected rent received and the rent payable on sublet properties, taking into account the vacant tenancy periods Analysis of net debt during the terms of the lease.
The vacant property provision 2008 2007 m m assumptions were reviewed during the last quarter and adjustments Cash and cash equivalents 118 231 were made to reflect the worsening economic conditions and Interest and cross-currency swaps 117 19 legislative changes that reduce rates relief from April 2008.
This Loans, bonds and other current resulted in increases to the provision of 8m and 6m to address financial liabilities 4 254 each of these respective issues.
Bonds and other non-current financial liabilities 774 768 10 Operating cash flow Net debt 543 772 Cash from operations was 52m better than 2006 07.
This is after an additional contribution of 100m to the two pension schemes.
Net debt In spite of an increase in operating profit by 200m, the rate of cash conversion has declined compared to 2006 07.
This is due to a 2008 543m number of one-time working capital gains in the prior year.
Details of how to obtain a copy of the Annual report are explained in the Investor relations section at the back of this report.
The Annual review and summary financial statement 2008 were approved by the Board on 24 April 2008.
M Bolland and R Pennycook signed the Summary financial statement on behalf of the Board.
Investor relations and financial calendar www.
Shareholders are encouraged to view the report on the website which is exactly the same as the printed Financial calendar 2008 09 version, but using the internet has clear advantages such as lowering Final dividend record date 02 05 08 costs and reducing the environmental impact.
Annual General Meeting 05 06 08 Q1 Quarterly management statement 05 06 08 b Carbon offset Final dividend payment date 06 06 08 The Annual report and financial statements, the Annual review and Half year end 27 07 08 summary financial statement and the Corporate Social Interim results announcement and Interim Responsibility report have been assessed with the assistance of the management report 11 09 08 Carbon Trust for the amount of carbon emissions that will be Interim dividend record date 10 10 08 generated in their preparation, printing and delivery.
To offset these Interim dividend payment date 10 11 08 carbon emissions a donation has been made to PURE, The Clean Q3 Quarterly management statement 04 12 08 Planet Trust, the first UK registered charity dedicated to combating Financial year end 01 02 09 climate change by offsetting.
More information about PURE can be Preliminary results announcement 12 03 09 found on their website www.
uk c Recycled paper Annual General Meeting This document has been printed by The Midas Press on recycled The AGM will be held at 11am on Thursday 5 June 2008 at paper that is manufactured in mills with ISO 14001 accreditation Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Head Office, Gain Lane, Bradford, from 100% recycled fibre.
It is totally chlorine free and is a NAPM BD3 7DL.
A separate notice convening the meeting is sent to certified recycled product.
shareholders, which includes an explanation of the items of special Further information about other ways in which the Group is business to be considered at the meeting.
helping with environmental change can be found in the Corporate Dividend Reinvestment Plan Social Responsibility report 2008 which can be viewed on the The Company has a Dividend Reinvestment Plan which allows Morrisons website.
shareholders to reinvest their cash dividends in the Companys shares bought in the market through a specifically arranged share Recyclopedia dealing service.
Full details of the plan and its charges, together Recyclopedia is our own unique, award-winning labelling scheme with mandate forms, are available from the Registrars.
for own-brand packaging, which helps to increase awareness of Annual report which packaging elements can be recycled and where.
The This Annual review contains summarised financial information Recyclopedia guide has three easy to recognise symbols: which does not contain sufficient information to allow as full an a big grin, for packaging which is 100% recyclable or home understanding of the results of the Group, its state of affairs or of compostable, the policies and arrangements concerning Directors remuneration smiling, for items which are partly recyclable or not recyclable as is provided in the Annual report.
everywhere yet, not smiling yet, for packaging which is not recyclable yet but we Online reports and accounts are working on it.
Our Annual and Interim Group accounts are available to download Each symbol incorporates a speech bubble giving information about from the website along with Corporate Social Responsibility reports the packaging components recyclability and how to find out about and other financial announcements.
The information in the Annual local recycling facilities.
report and financial statements, Annual review and summary financial statement and the Interim reports are exactly the same as Investor Relations in the printed version.
co. uk Morrisons website Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website, Corporate Social Responsibility enquiries www.
co. uk, which contains sections for consumer, Telephone: 0845 611 5000 corporate and investors.
Registrars and Shareholding enquiries Environmental matters Administrative enquiries about the holding of Morrisons shares, The effect of our business on the environment is something that such as change of address, change of ownership, dividend payments Morrisons takes very seriously.
In the production of the 2008 and the Dividend Reinvestment Plan should be directed to: Annual reports and accounts, we have contributed to the reduction Capita Registrars in environmental damage in the following ways: Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge a Website Huddersfield, HD8 0GA Morrison shareholders receive a printed copy of the Annual review Telephone: 0871 664 0300 Overseas: 44 208 639 3399 and summary financial statement.
The full Annual report is available Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
for viewing or downloading from the corporate website www.
com Designed and produced by www.
com 020 7855 5888 This report is 100% recyclable 100% recyclable This is our award-winning Recyclopedia logo which we use on our own-brand product packaging to inform customers about recyclability.
co. uk Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
