Our business Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information WO40011 R&A 42-124 3 10 08 14:33 Page 109 Notes to the Company financial statements Year ended 31 July 2008 Derivatives and financial instruments 1.
Company accounting policies Derivative financial instruments, in particular, interest rate swaps Basis of accounting and currency swaps, are used to manage the financial risks These Companies Act 1985 financial statements are prepared arising from the business activities of the Company and the under the historical cost convention and in accordance with financing of those activities.
There is no trading activity in applicable UK accounting standards.
The principal accounting derivative financial instruments.
policies, as set out below, have been applied consistently throughout the period.
At the inception of a hedging transaction entailing the use of derivative financial instruments, the Company documents Note 8 on page 77, note 29 on pages 94 to 98, note 30 on the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging page 98 and note 31 on pages 99 to 100 of the Wolseley plc instrument together with its risk management objective and consolidated financial statements form part of these financial the strategy underlying the proposed transaction.
also documents its assessment, both at the inception of the hedging relationship and subsequently on an ongoing basis, Under section 203 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company of the effectiveness of the hedge in offsetting movements in is exempt from the requirements to present its own profit and loss the fair values or cash flows of the hedged items.
Under Financial Reporting Standard 1 revised 1996 the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare statements Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and of cash flow as the consolidated statements have been published.
liabilities measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date.
Where derivative financial instruments do not fulfil the criteria Foreign currencies for hedge accounting contained in FRS 26, changes in their The cost of the Companys investments in overseas subsidiary fair values are recognised in the income statement.
undertakings is translated into sterling at the rate ruling at the date of investment.
When hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging relationships are classified as fair value hedges, cash flow Foreign currency transactions entered into during the year are hedges or net investment hedges.
Where the hedging translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the dates relationship is classified as a fair value hedge, the carrying of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated amount of the hedged asset or liability is adjusted by the in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling increase or decrease in its fair value attributable to the hedged at the balance sheet date.
All currency translation differences are risk and the resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income taken to the income statement with the exception of differences statement where, to the extent that the hedge is effective, on foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they are used it will be offset by the change in the fair value of the hedging to finance or provide a hedge against foreign currency investments.
Where the hedging relationship is classified as a cash flow hedge or as a net investment hedge, to the extent Investments the hedge is effective, changes in the fair value of the hedging Fixed asset investments are recorded at cost less provision for instrument arising from the hedged risk are recognised directly impairment.
The Company assesses at each balance sheet date in equity rather than in the income statement.
When the hedged whether there is objective evidence that an investment or a group item is recognised in the financial statements, the accumulated of investments is impaired.
gains and losses recognised in equity are either recycled to the income statement or, if the hedged item results in a Taxation non-financial asset, are recognised as adjustments to its initial Current tax represents the expected tax payable or recoverable carrying amount.
on the taxable income for the year using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and taking into Financial guarantees account any adjustments arising from prior years.
Financial guarantee contracts are recognised as assets and liabilities measured at fair value as at the reporting date.
Provision is made for deferred taxation in so far as a liability or Fair value is estimated by discounting expected cash flows asset has arisen as a result of transactions that had occurred by at a market rate.
Changes in fair value are recognised in the the balance sheet date and have given rise to an obligation to pay income statement.
more tax in the future, or the right to pay less tax in the future.
An asset has not been recognised to the extent that the transfer of economic benefits in the future is uncertain.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised have not been discounted.
Provision is made for UK or foreign taxation arising on the distribution to the UK of retained profits of overseas subsidiary undertakings where dividends have been recognised as receivable.
Notes to the Company financial statements 109 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
