WO40011 R&A 42-124 3 10 08 14:30 Page 64 Group accounting policies Year ended 31 July 2008 Revenue in respect of construction service contracts, where Other intangible assets the Group is providing framing lumber installation services An intangible asset, which is an identifiable non-monetary asset to residential property companies, is recognised using the without physical substance, is recognised to the extent that it is percentage of completion method, with the percentage complete probable that the expected future economic benefits attributable being determined by comparing the percentage of costs incurred to the asset will flow to the Group and that its cost can be to date with the estimated total costs of the contract.
The asset is deemed to be identifiable when it these contracts, if any, are recognised in the period when such is separable or when it arises from contractual or other legal rights.
losses become probable and can be reasonably estimated.
Intangible assets, primarily brands, trade names and customer Revenue from the provision of goods and all services is only relationships, acquired as part of a business combination are recognised when the amounts to be recognised are fixed capitalised separately from goodwill and are carried at cost less or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured.
accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation is calculated using the reducing balance method for customer relationships and the straight-line method for other Cost of sales intangible assets.
The cost of the intangible assets is amortised Cost of sales includes purchased goods, the cost of bringing over their estimated useful lives as follows: inventory to its present location and condition, and labour and overheads attributable to assembly and construction services.
Customer relationships 4 25 years Trade names and brands 1 15 years Vendor rebates Other 1 4 years The Group enters into arrangements with certain vendors Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, providing for inventory purchase rebates.
These purchase rebates plant and equipment is recognised separately as an intangible are accrued as earned and are recorded initially as a reduction in asset and is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation inventory with a subsequent reduction in cost of sales when the and accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include software related product is sold.
licences, consulting costs attributable to the development, design and implementation of the computer software and internal costs Business combinations directly attributable to the development, design and implementation The Group has applied the purchase method in its accounting of the computer software.
Costs in respect of training and data for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
conversion are expensed as incurred.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method so as to charge the cost of the The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the computer software to the income statement over its estimated assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or useful life three to five years.
assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and Property, plant and equipment PPE contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are PPE is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, accumulated impairment losses, except for land and assets in irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
the course of construction, which are not depreciated and are carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Cost includes The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded items.
In addition, subsequent costs are included in the assets as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, of the Groups share of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance costs Intangible assets are charged to the income statement during the financial period Goodwill in which they are incurred.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets Depreciation on assets is calculated using the straight-line method of the acquired subsidiary undertaking at the date of acquisition.
to allocate the cost of each asset to its residual value over its Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiary undertakings is included estimated useful life, as follows: in intangible assets.
Freehold buildings and long leaseholds 35 50 years Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment Short leaseholds Over the period and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Gains of the lease and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying Plant and machinery 7 10 years amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Fixtures and fittings 5 7 years Computers 3 5 years Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose Motor vehicles 4 years of impairment testing.
Each of those cash-generating units represents the lowest level within the Group at which the The residual values and useful lives of PPE are reviewed and associated goodwill is monitored for management purposes adjusted if appropriate at each balance sheet date.
and are not larger than the reporting segments determined in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
Borrowing costs attributable to assets under construction are charged to the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
64 Group accounting policies Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Our business Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information WO40011 R&A 42-124 3 10 08 14:30 Page 65 Leased assets Taxation Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where Current tax represents the expected tax payable or recoverable substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset on the taxable income for the year using tax rates enacted or have transferred to the Group, are capitalised in the balance sheet substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and taking into and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or their useful account any adjustments arising from prior years.
The asset is recorded at the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception of Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on the lease.
The capital elements of future obligations under finance temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets leases are included in liabilities in the balance sheet and analysed and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated between current and non-current amounts.
The interest elements financial statements.
Deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises of future obligations under finance leases are charged to the from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, income statement over the periods of the leases and represent other than a business combination, that at the time of the a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
outstanding in accordance with the effective interest rate method.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.
The cost date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax of operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that the periods of the leases.
future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Assets held for sale Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount investments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the will be recovered by sale rather than by continuing use in the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group business.
For this to be the case, the asset must be available and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse for immediate sale in its present condition, management must in the foreseeable future.
be committed to and have initiated a plan to sell the asset which, when initiated, was expected to result in a completed sale within Derivative financial instruments twelve months.
Assets that are classified as held for sale are not depreciated and are measured at the lower of their carrying Derivative financial instruments, in particular, interest rate amount and fair value less costs to sell.
swaps and currency swaps, are used to manage the financial risks arising from the business activities of the Group and the financing of those activities.
There is no trading activity in Impairment of assets derivative financial instruments.
Assets that have an indefinite useful life, such as goodwill, are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment At the inception of a hedging transaction entailing the use and whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the of derivative financial instruments, the Group documents carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Assets that are subject the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging to amortisation and assets under construction are tested for instrument together with its risk management objective and the impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate strategy underlying the proposed transaction.
The Group also that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment documents its assessment, both at the inception of the hedging loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying relationship and subsequently on an ongoing basis, of the amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount effectiveness of the hedge in offsetting movements in the fair is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value values or cash flows of the hedged items.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and identifiable cash flows.
liabilities measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date.
Where derivative financial instruments do not fulfil the criteria Inventories for hedge accounting contained in IAS 39, changes in their fair values are recognised in the income statement.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO method or the average cost method as appropriate to the nature of the transactions in those items of inventory.
The cost of goods purchased for resale includes import and custom duties, transport and handling costs, freight and packing costs and other attributable costs less trade discounts, rebates and other subsidies.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Group accounting policies 65 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WO40011 R&A 42-124 3 10 08 14:30 Page 66 Group accounting policies Year ended 31 July 2008 When hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging Trade receivables relationships are classified as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and or net investment hedges.
Where the hedging relationship is measured subsequently at amortised cost using the effective classified as a fair value hedge, the carrying amount of the hedged interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for asset or liability is adjusted by the increase or decrease in its fair impairment of trade receivables is established when there is value attributable to the hedged risk and the resulting gain or loss objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all is recognised in the income statement where, to the extent that amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
the hedge is effective, it will be offset by the change in the fair Examples of such evidence include significant financial difficulties value of the hedging instrument.
Where the hedging relationship of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or is classified as a cash flow hedge or as a net investment hedge, financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments.
to the extent the hedge is effective, changes in the fair value of The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets the hedging instrument arising from the hedged risk are recognised carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash directly in equity rather than in the income statement.
When flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The amount the hedged item is recognised in the financial statements, the of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
Trade receivables accumulated gains and losses recognised in equity are either are written off against the provision when recoverability is assessed recycled to the income statement or, if the hedged item results as being remote.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously in a non-financial asset, are recognised as adjustments to its initial written off are credited to the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Pensions and other post-retirement benefits Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held Contributions to defined contribution pension plans and other at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with post-retirement benefits are charged to the income statement original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet to the extent that there is no right of offset For defined benefit pension plans and other retirement benefits, and no practice of net settlement with cash balances.
the cost is calculated annually using the projected unit credit method and is recognised over the average expected remaining Share capital service lives of participating employees, in accordance with the recommendations of independent qualified actuaries.
The current The Company only has one class of shares, ordinary shares, service cost of defined benefit plans is recorded within operating which are classified as equity.
The total expected return from pension scheme assets less the total interest on pension scheme liabilities is recorded within Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares finance revenue if a gain and finance costs if an expense.
Past or options are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds, service costs resulting from enhanced benefits are recorded within net of tax.
operating profit and recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, or immediately if the benefits have vested.
Actuarial Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity gains and losses, which represent differences between the share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including expected and actual returns on the plan assets and the effect any directly attributable incremental costs net of tax, is deducted of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in full in the from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the statement of recognised income and expense in the period in shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares which they occur.
The defined benefit liability or asset recognised are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net in the balance sheet comprises the net total for each plan of the of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the present value of the benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, related tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the less any past service costs not yet recognised, less the fair value Companys equity holders.
of the plan assets, if any, at the balance sheet date.
Where a plan is in surplus, the asset recognised is limited to the amount of any Borrowings unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any Borrowings are recognised initially at the fair value of the amount which the Group expects to recover by way of refunds consideration received net of transaction costs incurred.
or a reduction in future contributions.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost with any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
66 Group accounting policies Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Our business Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information WO40011 R&A 42-124 3 10 08 14:30 Page 67 The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there Financial assets is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: loans and available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair receivables: held-to-maturity investments: and available-for-sale value of the security below its cost is considered as an indicator financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for that the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss, measured the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date.
value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss, is removed from equity and a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss recognised in the income statement.
This category comprises financial assets held for trading which have been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the Provisions short term.
Derivatives also fall within this category unless they are designated as hedges and the hedge is effective for accounting Provisions for environmental restoration, restructuring costs and purposes.
Assets in this category are classified as current.
legal claims are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more b Loans and receivables likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with settle the obligation, and the amount can be reliably estimated.
fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active Such provisions are measured at the present value of market and with no intention of trading.
They are included in managements best estimate of the expenditure required to current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date.
The after the balance sheet date, which are classified as non-current discount rate used to determine the present value reflects assets.
Loans and receivables are included in trade and other current market assessments of the time value of money.
receivables in the balance sheet.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
c Held-to-maturity investments Provisions for insurance represent an estimate, based on Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets historical experience, of the ultimate cost of settling outstanding with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the claims and claims incurred but not reported at the balance Groups management has the positive intention and ability to hold sheet date.
They are included in non-current assets unless the investment is due to mature within 12 months of the balance Share-based payments sheet date.
Share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Groups executive share option, long-term incentive and share d Available-for-sale financial assets purchase schemes.
The Group recognises a compensation Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial cost in respect of these schemes that is based on the fair assets that are either designated in this category or not classified value of the awards, measured using Black-Scholes, Binomial in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current and Monte Carlo valuation methodologies.
For equity-settled assets unless management intends to dispose of the financial schemes, the fair value is determined at the date of grant asset within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
and is not subsequently remeasured unless the conditions on which the award was granted are modified.
For cash-settled Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus schemes, the fair value is determined at the date of grant and transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value is remeasured at each balance sheet date until the liability through profit or loss.
Financial assets are derecognised when is settled.
Generally, the compensation cost is recognised on the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Adjustments are expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred made to reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
vesting period due to the failure to satisfy service conditions or non-market performance conditions.
Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value.
Dividends payable Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in the Groups method.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from financial statements in the period in which the dividends are changes in the fair value of the Financial assets at fair value approved by the shareholders of the Company generally in the through profit or loss category are included in the income case of the final dividend or paid in the case of interim dividends.
statement in the period in which they arise.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale are recognised in equity.
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement as gains and losses from investment securities.
Group accounting policies 67 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WO40011 R&A 42-124 3 10 08 14:31 Page 68 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Year ended 31 July 2008 Future sales are assessed based on historical experience, and 1.
Critical accounting estimates adjusted where the manufacturer has indicated that it will no and judgements longer continue to manufacture the particular item.
To the extent The preparation of financial statements in accordance with that future events impact the saleability of inventory these provisions IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions could vary significantly.
For example, changes in specifications in certain circumstances that affect reported amounts.
The most or regulations may render inventory, previously considered to sensitive estimates affecting the financial statements are in the have a realisable value in excess of cost, obsolete and requiring areas of assessing the recoverability of receivables, the net such inventory to be fully written off.
The Group held allowances realisable value of inventory, the impairment of goodwill and in respect of inventory balances at 31 July 2008 amounting to long-lived intangible assets, the reserves in respect of self-insured 160 million 2007: 168 million.
insurance, the consideration received from vendors, taxation and the cost and liability for pensions and other post-retirement benefits.
Impairment of long-lived assets Wolseley periodically evaluates the net realisable value of Allowance for doubtful accounts long-lived assets, including goodwill, other intangible assets Provision is made against accounts that in the estimation of and tangible fixed assets, relying on a number of factors, including management may be impaired.
Within each of the businesses operating results, business plans and projected future cash flows.
assessment is made locally of the recoverability of accounts receivable based on a range of factors including the age of Assets that have an indefinite useful life, such as goodwill, the receivable and the creditworthiness of the customer.
The are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for provision is assessed monthly with a detailed formal review impairment and whenever events or changes in circumstance of balances and security being conducted at the full year and indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Determining the recoverability of an account involves Assets that are subject to amortisation are tested for impairment estimation as to the likely financial condition of the customer whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the and their ability to subsequently make payment.
If the Group is carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is cautious as to the financial condition of the customer the Group recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount may provide for accounts that are subsequently recovered.
The recoverable amount is the Similarly if the Group is optimistic as to the financial condition higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
of the customer the Group may not provide for an account that The fair value is in most cases based on the discounted present is subsequently determined to be irrecoverable.
Furthermore, value of the future cash flows expected to arise from the cashwhile the Group has a large geographically dispersed customer generating unit to which the goodwill relates, or from the individual base, a slowdown in the markets in which the Group operates asset or asset group.
Estimates are used in deriving these cash may result in higher than expected uncollectible amounts and flows and the discount rate.
therefore higher or lower than anticipated charges for irrecoverable receivables.
The amount charged to the income statement The complexity of the estimation process and issues related in 2008 in respect of doubtful accounts represented 0.6 per cent to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the of revenue 2007: 0.3 per cent.
application of the intangible and tangible fixed asset accounting policies affect the amounts reported in the financial statements.
Wolseley held a provision for impairment of receivables at In particular, if different estimates of the projected future cash 31 July 2008 amounting to 79 million 2007: 55 million.
flows or a different selection of an appropriate discount rate or long-term growth rate were made, these changes could Inventories materially alter the projected value of the cash flows of the asset, For financial reporting purposes the Group evaluates its inventory and as a consequence materially different amounts would be to ensure it is carried at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
reported in the financial statements.
These estimates are Provision is made against slow moving, obsolete and damaged interlinked and specific to the circumstances of each asset, inventories.
Damaged inventories are identified and written down so that it is not appropriate to indicate how reported amounts through the inventory counting procedures conducted within each might change if different estimates were made.
Provision for slow moving and obsolete inventories is assessed by each business as part of their ongoing financial As disclosed in note 3 and notes 12 and 13, the Group has reporting.
Obsolescence is assessed based on comparison charged 186 million in respect of the impairment of long-lived of the level of inventory holding to the projected likely future sales.
assets during the year ended 31 July 2008 2007: 5 million.
68 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
