Our business Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information WO40011 R&A 42-124 3 10 08 14:30 Page 63 Group accounting policies Year ended 31 July 2008 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Foreign currencies accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups IFRS as adopted by the European Union, including subsidiary undertakings are measured using the currency interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards of the primary economic environment in which the subsidiary Board IASB and its committees, and with those parts of the undertaking operates the functional currency.
The Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, IFRS.
The date of transition to IFRS was 1 August 2004. which is the presentational currency of the Group and the functional currency of the parent Company.
A summary of the principal accounting policies applied by the Group in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements The trading results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are is set out below.
translated into sterling using average rates of exchange ruling during the relevant financial period.
Basis of accounting The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the period end.
Exchange differences arising between the available-for-sale investments and financial assets and liabilities translation into sterling of the net assets of these subsidiary held for trading.
undertakings at rates ruling at the beginning and end of the year are recognised in the currency translation reserve as are Accounting standards, interpretations exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings to the and amendments to published standards extent that they are used to finance or provide a hedge against adopted during the year foreign currency net assets.
During the year the following standards, interpretations of, and Changes in the fair value and the final settlement value of amendments to published standards were adopted by the Group: derivative financial instruments, entered into to hedge foreign currency net assets and that satisfy the hedging conditions of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and amendment IAS 39, are recognised in the currency translation reserve see to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements the separate accounting policy on derivative financial instruments.
Capital Disclosures IFRS 8 Operating Segments In the event that an overseas subsidiary undertaking is sold, IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury Share Transactions the gain or loss on disposal recognised in the income statement is determined after taking into account the cumulative currency The adoption of these has not had a significant impact on the translation differences that are attributable to the subsidiary Groups financial position or results of operations.
of IFRS 7 and the complementary amendment to IAS 1 has resulted in additional disclosures in this Annual Report.
Foreign currency transactions entered into during the year are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling The Group has elected to adopt IFRS 8 Operating Segments on the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities in the financial year ended 31 July 2008 and has presented the denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate segmental analysis of results in note 2 on this basis.
Segmental of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All currency disclosures equivalent to those required by IFRS 8 were previously translation differences are taken to the income statement with presented in the Groups Form 20-F, prepared in accordance with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings US GAAP, and were provided as additional information in the to the extent that they are used to finance or provide a hedge Groups Annual Report and Accounts 2007. against foreign currency net assets as detailed above.
Exceptional items Revenue Exceptional items are those material items which, by virtue Revenue is the amount receivable for the provision of goods of their size or incidence, are presented separately in the income and services falling within the Groups ordinary activities, statement to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial excluding intra-group sales, estimated and actual sales returns, performance.
These exclude impairments of acquired intangibles trade and early settlement discounts, value added tax and which are also presented separately in the income statement.
Transactions which may give rise to exceptional items include restructurings of business activities and gains or losses on the Revenue from the provision of goods is recognised when the disposal of businesses.
risks and rewards of ownership of goods have been transferred to the customer.
The risks and rewards of ownership of goods Consolidation are deemed to have been transferred when the goods are The consolidated financial information includes the results of shipped to, or are picked up by, the customer.
the parent Company and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 31 July 2008.
Revenue from services, other than those that arise from construction service contracts see below, are recognised The trading results of businesses acquired, sold or discontinued when the service provided to the customer has been completed.
during the year are included in profit on ordinary activities from the date of acquisition or up to the date of sale or discontinuance.
Intra-group transactions and balances and any unrealised gains and losses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
Group accounting policies 63 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
