Our 2008 financial statements Accounting policies he consolidated financial statements of WPP plc The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed and its subsidiaries the Group for the year ended of during the period are included or excluded from the income T 31 December 2008 have been prepared in accordance statement from the effective date of acquisition with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as or disposal.
adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2008.
The Groups financial statements are also consistent Goodwill and other intangible assets with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Intangible assets comprise goodwill, certain acquired separable corporate brand names, acquired customer relationships and capitalised computer software not integral Basis of preparation to a related item of hardware.
Goodwill represents the excess of fair value attributed The financial statements have been prepared under the to investments in businesses or subsidiary undertakings historical cost convention, except for the revaluation of over the fair value of the underlying net assets, including certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting intangible assets, at the date of their acquisition.
Acquisitions policies are set out below.
complement and give rise to synergies with our existing portfolio of businesses, and bring skilled staff to deliver services to our clients.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions Basis of consolidation before the date of transition to IFRS 1 January 2004 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject In November 2008, pursuant to a Scheme of Arrangement to being tested for impairment.
Goodwill written off to under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006, a new parent reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been company was introduced which is now called WPP plc reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent Newco.
The previous parent company has been renamed profit or loss on disposal.
and re-registered as WPP 2008 Limited Oldco.
Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually The introduction of a new holding company constitutes or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances a Group reconstruction and has been accounted for using indicate a potential impairment.
The carrying value of merger accounting principles.
Therefore, although the Group goodwill is compared to the net present value of future reconstruction did not become effective until November cash flows derived from the underlying assets using a 2008, the consolidated financial statements of WPP plc are projection period of up to five years for each cash-generating presented as if Newco and Oldco had always been part of unit.
After the projection period a steady growth rate the same Group.
Accordingly, the results of the Group for representing an appropriate long-term growth rate for the entire year ended 31 December 2008 are shown in the the industry is applied.
Any impairment is recognised consolidated income statement and the comparative figures immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
for the years ended 31 December 2007 and 2006 are also Corporate brand names and customer relationships prepared on this basis.
Earnings per share are unaffected by acquired as part of acquisitions of businesses are capitalised the reorganisation.
separately from goodwill as intangible assets if their value The consolidated financial statements include the results of can be measured reliably on initial recognition and it is Newco and all its subsidiary undertakings made up to the probable that the expected future economic benefits that same accounting date.
All intra-Group balances, transactions, are attributable to the asset will flow to the Group.
income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 139 Our 2008 financial statements Accounting policies Certain corporate brands of the Group are considered to Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the have an indefinite economic life because of the institutional cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a straightnature of the corporate brand names, their proven ability line basis over its estimated useful life, as follows: to maintain market leadership and profitable operations Freehold buildings 50 years.
over long periods of time and the Groups commitment to Leasehold land and buildings over the term of the lease develop and enhance their value.
The carrying value of these or life of the asset, if shorter.
intangible assets is reviewed at least annually for impairment Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3-10 years.
and adjusted to the recoverable amount if required.
Amortisation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life as follows: Interests in associates and joint ventures Acquired intangibles Brand names 10-20 years.
The Groups share of the profits less losses of associate Customer related intangibles 3-10 years.
undertakings net of tax, interest and minority interest is Other proprietary tools 3-10 years.
included in the consolidated income statement and the Other including capitalised computer software Groups share of net assets is shown within interests in 3-5 years.
associates in the consolidated balance sheet.
The Groups share of the profits less losses and net assets is based on current information produced by the undertakings, adjusted Contingent consideration to conform with the accounting policies of the Group.
The Group assesses the carrying value of its associate Future anticipated payments to vendors in respect of undertakings to determine if any impairment has occurred.
contingent consideration earnouts are based on the Where this indicates that an investment may be impaired, directors best estimates of future obligations, which are the Group applies the requirements of IAS 36 in assessing dependent on the future performance of the interests the carrying amount of the investment.
This process includes acquired and assume the operating companies improve comparing its recoverable amount with its carrying value.
profits in line with directors estimates.
When earnouts The Group accounts for joint venture investments under are to be settled by cash consideration, the fair value of the the equity method which is consistent with the Groups consideration is obtained by discounting to present value treatment of associates.
of the amounts expected to be payable in the future.
The resulting interest charge is included within finance costs.
Other investments Property, plant and equipment Other investments are designated as available for sale and are shown at fair value with any movements in fair value Property, plant and equipment are shown at cost less taken to equity.
accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment On disposal of the security the cumulative gain or loss with the exception of freehold land which is not depreciated.
previously recognised in equity is included in the profit or The Group assesses the carrying value of its property, plant loss for the year.
Impairment losses recognised in profit or and equipment to determine if any impairment has occurred.
loss for equity investments classified as available for sale Where this indicates that an asset may be impaired, the are not subsequently reversed through profit or loss.
Group applies the requirements of IAS 36 in assessing the carrying amount of the assets.
This process includes comparing its recoverable amount with its carrying value.
Inventory and work in progress Work in progress is valued at cost, which includes outlays incurred on behalf of clients and an appropriate proportion of directly attributable costs and overheads on incomplete assignments.
Provision is made for irrecoverable costs where appropriate.
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
140 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 Our 2008 financial statements Accounting policies Trade receivables The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow or Trade receivables are stated net of provisions for bad and net investment hedges is deferred in equity.
The gain or loss doubtful debts.
relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is Foreign currency and interest rate hedging recognised in profit or loss.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a The Groups policy on Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains Rate Management sets out the instruments and methods and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from available to hedge interest and currency risk exposures equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost and the control procedures in place to ensure effectiveness.
of the asset or liability.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or movements.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any financial instruments for speculative purposes.
cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the in equity is retained in equity until the forecast transaction date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss is transferred to net profit or loss for the period.
immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those hedge relationship.
of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at At the inception of the hedge relationship the entity fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the documents the relationship between the hedging instrument income statement.
and hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an Liabilities in respect of option agreements ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly Option agreements that allow the Groups equity partners to effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows require the Group to purchase a minority interest are treated of the hedged item.
as derivatives over equity instruments and are recorded in the Note 25 contains details of the fair values of the balance sheet at fair value and the valuation is remeasured at derivative instruments used for hedging purposes.
Fair value is based on the present value of Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated expected cash outflows and the movement in the fair value is and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss recognised as income or expense within finance costs in the immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of income statement.
the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Derecognition of financial liabilities In accordance with IAS 39, a financial liability of the Group is only released to the income statement when the underlying legal obligation is extinguished.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 141 Our 2008 financial statements Accounting policies Convertible debt The Group receives volume rebates from certain suppliers for transactions entered into on behalf of clients that, based Convertible debt is assessed according to the substance of on the terms of the relevant contracts and local law, are the contractual arrangements and is classified into liability either remitted to clients or retained by the Group.
and equity elements on the basis of the initial fair value If amounts are passed on to clients they are recorded as of the liability element.
The difference between this figure liabilities until settled or, if retained by the Group, are and the cash received is classified as equity.
recorded as revenue when earned.
The income statement charge for the finance cost is spread evenly over the term of the convertible debt so that Information, Insight & Consultancy at redemption the liability equals the redemption value.
Revenue recognised in proportion to the level of service performed for market research contracts is based on Bank borrowings proportional performance.
In assessing contract performance, both input and output criteria are reviewed.
Other interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are Costs incurred are used as an objective input measure of recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
The primary input of all work performed under these arrangements is labour.
As a result of the relationship between labour and cost, there is normally Borrowing costs a direct relationship between costs incurred and the proportion of the contract performed to date.
Costs Finance costs of borrowing are recognised in the income incurred as a proportion of expected total costs is used statement over the term of those borrowings.
as an initial proportional performance measure.
This indicative proportional performance measure is subsequently validated against other more subjective criteria i. e. relevant Revenue recognition output measures such as the percentage of interviews completed, percentage of reports delivered to a client and Revenue comprises commission and fees earned in respect the achievement of any project milestones stipulated in the of amounts billed.
Direct costs include fees paid to external contract.
In the event of divergence between the objective suppliers where they are retained to perform part or all of and more subjective measures, the more subjective measures a specific project for a client and the resulting expenditure is take precedence since these are output measures.
directly attributable to the revenue earned.
Revenue is stated While most of the studies provided in connection with exclusive of VAT, sales taxes and trade discounts.
the Groups market research contracts are undertaken in response to an individual clients or group of clients Advertising and Media Investment Management specifications, in certain instances a study may be developed as an off-the-shelf product offering sold to a broad client Revenue is typically derived from commissions on media base.
For these transactions, revenue is recognised when the placements and fees for advertising services.
Revenue may product is delivered.
Where the terms of transaction provide consist of various arrangements involving commissions, fees, for licensing the product on a subscription basis, revenue is incentive-based revenue or a combination of the three, as recognised over the subscription period on a straight-line agreed upon with each client.
basis or, if applicable, based on usage.
Revenue is recognised when the service is performed, Substantially all services are provided on a fixed price in accordance with the terms of the contractual arrangement.
Pricing may also include a provision for a surcharge Incentive-based revenue typically comprises both quantitative where the actual labour hours incurred in completing a and qualitative elements: on the element related to project are significantly above the labour hours quoted quantitative targets, revenue is recognised when the in the project proposal.
In instances where this occurs, quantitative targets have been achieved: on the element the surcharge will be included in the total revenue base related to qualitative targets, revenue is recognised when on which to measure proportional performance when the the incentive is received or receivable.
actual threshold is reached provided that collectibility is reasonably assured.
142 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 Our 2008 financial statements Accounting policies Public Relations & Public Affairs and Branding & Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are Identity, Healthcare and Specialist Communications expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on enacted or substantively enacted Revenue is typically derived from retainer fees and services legislation.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income to be performed subject to specific agreement.
Revenue is statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited recognised when the service is performed, in accordance directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with the terms of the contractual arrangement.
Revenue is with in equity.
recognised on long-term contracts, if the final outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty, by including in the income statement revenue and related costs as contract Retirement benefit costs activity progresses.
For defined contribution schemes, contributions are charged to the income statement as payable in respect Taxation of the accounting period.
For defined benefit schemes the amounts charged to Corporate taxes are payable on taxable profits at current rates.
operating profit are the current service costs and gains The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently and losses on settlements and curtailments.
They are payable and deferred tax.
included as part of staff costs.
Past service costs are The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for recognised immediately in the income statement if the the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in benefits have vested.
If the benefits have not vested, the the income statement because it excludes items of income or costs are recognised over the period until vesting occurs.
expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it The interest cost and the expected return on assets are further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
shown within finance costs and finance income respectively.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Where defined benefit schemes are funded, the assets of Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or the scheme are held separately from those of the Group, in recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts separate trustee-administered funds.
Pension scheme assets of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured on corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term temporary differences unless specifically excepted by IAS 12. to the scheme liabilities.
The actuarial valuations are obtained Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date.
probable that taxable profits will be available against which Recognition of a surplus in the defined benefit schemes is deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets limited based on the economic gain the company is expected and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference to benefit from in the future by means of a refund or arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or other reduction in future contributions to the plan, in accordance assets and liabilities other than in a business combination with IAS 19. in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable Finance leases temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary of the Group at the inception of the lease at the lower difference and it is probable that the temporary difference of their fair value and the present value of the minimum will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed to the income statement on the same basis as owned assets.
at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it Leasing payments are treated as consisting of capital and is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be interest elements and the interest is charged to the income available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
statement as it is incurred.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 143 Our 2008 financial statements Accounting policies Operating leases New IFRS accounting pronouncements Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Any premium or the following Standards and Interpretations, which have not discount on the acquisition of a lease is spread over the life been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but of the lease on a straight-line basis.
not yet effective: IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty: IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Translation of foreign currencies Foreign Operation: IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners: Foreign currency transactions arising from normal trading IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers: activities are recorded at the rates in effect at the date of IFRS 1 amended IAS 27 amended : Cost of an the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity in foreign currencies at the year end are translated at the or Associate: year-end exchange rate.
Foreign currency gains and losses IFRS 2 amended : Share-Based Payment-Vesting are credited or charged to the income statement as they arise.
Conditions and Cancellations: The income statements of overseas subsidiary IFRS 8 Operating Segments: undertakings are translated into pounds sterling at IAS 1 revised Presentation of Financial Statements: average exchange rates and the year-end net assets of IAS 23 revised Borrowing Costs: and these companies are translated at year-end exchange rates.
IAS 32 amended IAS 1 amended : Puttable Financial Exchange differences arising from retranslation of the Instruments and Obligations arising on Liquidation.
opening net assets and on foreign currency borrowings The Group does not consider that these Standards and to the extent that they hedge the Groups investment in Interpretations will have a significant impact on the financial such operations are reported in the Statement of Recognised statements of the Group except for additional disclosures Income and Expense.
when the relevant standards come into effect for periods Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the commencing on or after 1 January 2009. acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and In addition, IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the and IAS 27 revised Consolidated and Separate Financial closing rate.
Statements become effective for the Group in the year ended 31 December 2010.
The revisions to these standards will apply to business combinations completed after 1 January Share-based payments 2010.
The main changes under the revised standards are: all acquisition-related costs must be recognised as an The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments expense in the period: including share options to certain employees and accounts contingent consideration payable is to be measured at fair for these awards in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based value at the acquisition date.
Equity-settled share-based payments are in the fair value of such consideration as a result of postmeasured at fair value excluding the effect of non marketacquisition events such as changes in estimates of earnout based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The Group consideration must be recognised as a gain or loss in the has used a Black-Scholes valuation model for this purpose.
income statement: The fair value determined at the grant date is recognised equity interests held prior to control being obtained must in the income statement as an expense on a straight-line be re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date, with basis over the relevant vesting period, based on the Groups any gain or loss recognised in the income statement: and estimate of the number of shares that will ultimately vest and increases in ownership interest in a subsidiary that do adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
not result in a change of control are treated as transactions among equity holders and are reported within equity.
No gain or loss is recognised on such transactions and goodwill is not re-measured.
144 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 Our 2008 financial statements Accounting policies The revisions to the standards apply prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the first annual financial reporting period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
Consequently, the impact that these revised standards will have on the financial statements of the Group will depend on the circumstances of business combinations occurring on or after 1 January 2010.
In the current year, the following interpretations issued became effective: IFRIC 11: IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions: and IFRIC 14: IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their interaction.
The adoption of these interpretations has not led to any changes in the Groups accounting policies.
Critical judgements in applying accounting policies Management is required to make key decisions and judgements in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The most significant areas where such judgements have been necessary are revenue recognition, goodwill and other intangibles, acquisition reserves, taxation and accounting for pension liabilities.
Where judgement has been applied, the key factors taken into consideration are disclosed in the accounting policies and the appropriate note in these financial statements.
Directors responsibility statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
Sir Martin Sorrell Paul Richardson Group chief executive Group finance director 14 April 2009 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 145
