Our 2008 financial statements Accounting policies he consolidated financial statements of WPP plc The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed and its subsidiaries the Group for the year ended of during the period are included or excluded from the income T 31 December 2008 have been prepared in accordance statement from the effective date of acquisition with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as or disposal.
adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2008.
The Groups financial statements are also consistent Goodwill and other intangible assets with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Intangible assets comprise goodwill, certain acquired separable corporate brand names, acquired customer relationships and capitalised computer software not integral Basis of preparation to a related item of hardware.
Goodwill represents the excess of fair value attributed The financial statements have been prepared under the to investments in businesses or subsidiary undertakings historical cost convention, except for the revaluation of over the fair value of the underlying net assets, including certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting intangible assets, at the date of their acquisition.
Acquisitions policies are set out below.
complement and give rise to synergies with our existing portfolio of businesses, and bring skilled staff to deliver services to our clients.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions Basis of consolidation before the date of transition to IFRS 1 January 2004 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject In November 2008, pursuant to a Scheme of Arrangement to being tested for impairment.
Goodwill written off to under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006, a new parent reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been company was introduced which is now called WPP plc reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent Newco.
The previous parent company has been renamed profit or loss on disposal.
and re-registered as WPP 2008 Limited Oldco.
Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually The introduction of a new holding company constitutes or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances a Group reconstruction and has been accounted for using indicate a potential impairment.
The carrying value of merger accounting principles.
Therefore, although the Group goodwill is compared to the net present value of future reconstruction did not become effective until November cash flows derived from the underlying assets using a 2008, the consolidated financial statements of WPP plc are projection period of up to five years for each cash-generating presented as if Newco and Oldco had always been part of unit.
After the projection period a steady growth rate the same Group.
Accordingly, the results of the Group for representing an appropriate long-term growth rate for the entire year ended 31 December 2008 are shown in the the industry is applied.
Any impairment is recognised consolidated income statement and the comparative figures immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
for the years ended 31 December 2007 and 2006 are also Corporate brand names and customer relationships prepared on this basis.
Earnings per share are unaffected by acquired as part of acquisitions of businesses are capitalised the reorganisation.
separately from goodwill as intangible assets if their value The consolidated financial statements include the results of can be measured reliably on initial recognition and it is Newco and all its subsidiary undertakings made up to the probable that the expected future economic benefits that same accounting date.
All intra-Group balances, transactions, are attributable to the asset will flow to the Group.
income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
