118 Investor Information Investor Information WS Atkins plc Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP Identity theft Registered in England.
The Company offers a dividend Identity theft is on the increase.
1885586 reinvestment plan to shareholders as may steal your personal information, putting a cost-efficient way of increasing their your Atkins shareholding at risk.
Company Secretary shareholding in the Company.
Should and Registered Office you wish to participate in the DRIP please Tips for protecting your Atkins shares: Richard Webster contact the Registrar on the telephone WS Atkins plc number given above to request a Ensure all your certificates are kept in a Woodcote Grove mandate form and an explanatory booklet.
safe place or hold your shares electronically Ashley Road Your completed mandate form must be in CREST via a nominee Epsom received by the Registrar no later than Surrey KT18 5BW 27 August 2008 if you wish your final Keep all correspondence from the Registrar dividend for the year to be reinvested that shows your shareholder reference Financial Calendar to buy additional shares.
number in a safe place, or destroy your Ex-dividend date 13 August 2008 correspondence by shredding it Record date 15 August 2008 Amalgamation of accounts Shareholders who receive duplicate sets If you change address inform the Annual General of Company mailings owing to multiple Registrar in writing or via our shareholder Meeting 3 September 2008 accounts in their name should write services portal www.
com Final dividend to the Registrar to have their accounts payment date 26 September 2008 amalgamated.
Know when dividends are paid and consider having your dividend paid Shareholder Services Unsolicited mail directly into your bank account.
This Registrar The Company is obliged by law to make its will reduce the risk of the cheque being Enquiries and notifications concerning share register available to other organisations intercepted or lost in the post.
If you dividends, share certificates, transfers and who may then use it for a mailing list.
If you change your bank account, inform the address changes should be sent to the wish to limit receipt of unsolicited mail you Registrar of the details of your new Registrar, whose address is: may do so by registering with the Mailing account.
You can do this via post or Preference Service MPS.
Registration can online using our shareholder services Capita Registrars be made in writing to: The Mailing Preference portal www.
34 Beckenham Road Service MPS, Freepost 29 LON20771, Respond to any letters the Registrar Beckenham London W1E 0ZT or online at sends to you about this Kent BR3 4TU www.
uk If you receive a letter from the Registrar Telephone: 0871 664 0300 UK callers, Giving your shares to charity regarding a change of address or a calls cost 10p per minute including VAT If you only have a small number of shares dividend instruction but have not recently plus any additional network charges or whose value makes it uneconomic to sell moved or requested a change to how 44 20 8639 3399 non-UK callers.
them, you may wish to consider donating you receive your dividends please contact them to charity though ShareGift, an them immediately as you may have been Other shareholder enquiries should be independent share donation scheme.
a victim of identity theft addressed to the company secretary at the The relevant share transfer form can be registered office.
ShareGift If you are buying or selling shares only is administered by the Orr Mackintosh deal with brokers registered in your Investor relations website Foundation, registered charity number country of residence or the UK.
Further information may be questions are addressed in the investor obtained on 44 0 20 7930 3737 or from relations section of our website www.
com E-communications Shareholders can choose to receive all Company communications electronically.
To register please visit our shareholder services portal at www.
com WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 Introduction Review Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Investor Information 119 Notes WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 120 Investor Information At Atkins we are genuinely concerned about our environmental performance.
As such, we would encourage you to access shareholder information online at www.
com investors To help you find the information youre looking for, the key features of our investor relations website are highlighted below.
Reports & Presentations Corporate Responsibility Our reports can be accessed Find out more about our and or downloaded from here.
Corporate Responsibility strategy and performance by visiting this Links to results presentations, section of our website.
press releases and webcasts are also provided.
Shareholders Queries Share Price We provide a number of Chart showing one, two or three services to help our shareholders months share price activity.
Keep up the chart to see the share price to date with our progress and table and to access our calculators.
Register for e-comms Latest Financial News You can help us to reduce our Access our latest financial press environmental impact by opting releases here.
to receive electronic versions of shareholder communications e-comms.
Click Register to sign up.
We will donate 1 to RedR Register for Engineers for Disaster Relief for each shareholder who chooses this method of communication.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 Introduction Reviews Financial Statements 01 Financial Highlights 14 Human Resources Review 64 Consolidated Income Statement 02 Group at a Glance 18 Operating and Financial Review 65 Consolidated and Parent Company 04 Atkins Business Segments 18 Overview of the business and Statements of Recognised Income 06 Chairmans Statement performance in the year and Expense 08 Chief Executives Statement 20 Segmental performance 66 Consolidated and Parent Company 20 Design and Engineering Balance Sheets Solutions 67 Consolidated and Parent Company 22 Highways and Transportation Cash Flow Statements 24 Rail 68 Notes to the Financial Statements 26 Middle East, China and Europe 114 Five Year Summary 30 Management and Project Services Investor Information 32 Asset Management 118 Company Information 33 Discontinued operations 118 Financial Calendar 34 Financial performance 118 Shareholder Services 37 Principal risks and uncertainties 38 Corporate Responsibility Review Governance 44 Board of Directors 46 Directors Report 50 Corporate Governance Report 56 Remuneration Report 61 Independent Auditors Report This Annual Report is printed by a CarbonNeutral printing company on Revive 100 Uncoated, a 100% recycled paper made from post-consumer collected waste and manufactured to the certified environmental management system ISO 14001.
It is TCF Totally Chlorine Free, totally recyclable and has biodegradable NAPM recycled certification.
The Atkins logo, the open A device and the strapline Plan Design Enable are trademarks of Atkins Limited, a WS Atkins plc company.
WS Atkins plc except where stated otherwise.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 info@atkinsglobal.
