annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 4 Critical accounting estimations and judgements iv Calculation of cost and appropriate amortisation period The Groups principal accounting policies are set out in note 2 The original cost of pre-contract costs includes project development to these financial statements.
Management is required to costs including appropriate direct internal costs which are exercise significant judgement and make use of estimates deferred from the point that it is virtually certain that the project and assumptions in the application of these policies.
The Directors consider that this point of virtual certainty is reached when the memorandum of Areas which management believes require the most critical understanding related to the contract is signed by all parties accounting judgements are: involved see note 20. i Retirement benefit obligations Depreciation of these developed assets is charged so as to write The Group operates a number of defined benefit plans.
down the value of the asset to its residual value over its estimated The retirement benefit obligations recorded are based on useful life.
actuarial assumptions, including discount rates, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, inflation and mortality v Assumptions on put options rates.
These assumptions are based on current market conditions, Three put options are accounted for as financial liabilities under historical information and consultation with, and input from, paragraph 23 of IAS 32.
These liabilities are carried at fair value actuaries.
Management reviews these assumptions annually.
through profit and loss and measured at the fair value of the If they change, or if actual experience is different from the future cash flows associated with them.
The levels of these cash assumptions, the funding status of the plan will change and flows and the relevant discount rates used in the fair value the retirement benefit obligation will be adjusted accordingly.
calculations are based on future projections and incorporate The assumptions used are detailed in note 36. a certain element of management judgement see note 23.
Xchanging participates in various BAE Systems pension schemes.
The terms on which Xchanging participates in these schemes 5 Segmental information give Xchanging protection against any requirement to fund The Group has three reportable operating business sectors for future deficits that arise in the schemes, and against future financial reporting purposes: Business Lines, Insurance and exit debts that may arise on withdrawal from these schemes.
Business Lines is a cross-industry sector in However, in the event of BAE Systems becoming insolvent, which the Group provides procurement, human resources, there is a risk that Xchanging could become liable to fund the finance and accounting and technology infrastructure services.
wider pension schemes of these companies, which would result In both of the Insurance and Financial Markets sectors the Group in a significant exposure should these events occur.
The Directors provides industry specific BPO services and software to customers.
consider that the risk of this event is extremely remote and These three operating sectors are supported by the Groups consequently the schemes are accounted for as defined offshore business processing services facility BPS and contribution schemes as per note 36.
Corporate, which provides the infrastructure, resources and ii Estimated impairment of goodwill investment to sustain and grow the Group, including sales and The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any commercial, performance management, implementation and impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated business management functions.
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units Measurement of operating segment profit and loss, have been determined based on value in use calculations.
assets and liabilities These calculations require the use of estimates see note 15.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same iii Exceptional items as those described in note 2.
Xchanging measures segmental The Directors consider that items of income or expense which are performance on operating profit before exceptional items, material and non-recurring by virtue of their nature and amount share-based payments, and amortisation and impairment of should be disclosed separately if the financial statements are to intangible assets previously unrecognised by an acquired entity.
fairly present the financial position and financial performance Xchangings reportable segments account for inter segment sales of the Group.
The Directors label these items collectively as and transfers as if the sales or transfers were to third parties, exceptional items see note 8. i. e. at current market prices.
Unallocated assets include deferred tax assets and inter segment assets.
Unallocated liabilities include current income tax liabilities, deferred tax liabilities, borrowings, other financial liabilities and inter segment liabilities.
