annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 1 General information a Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2008 Xchanging plc is a limited liability company incorporated and There are no new standards effective in 2008 which are relevant domiciled in the UK.
The address of its registered office is for the Group.
The nature of the b Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2008 Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the but not relevant for the Group Directors report on pages 48 to 51 and discussed further on The following standards, amendments and interpretations are pages 1 to 37.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on mandatory for the first time for the current accounting period the London Stock Exchange.
but are not relevant to the Groups operations: IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions IFRIC 12, Service concession arrangements 2 Principal accounting policies IFRIC 13, Customer loyalty programmes.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies c New standards and interpretations to existing standards that are have been consistently applied to both years presented, unless not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group otherwise stated.
The following new standards and interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for the Groups i Basis of preparation of the financial statements future accounting but which the Group has not early adopted: These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IAS 1 Revised, Presentation of financial statements EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRIC Comprehensive revision including a statement of interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 comprehensive income effective from 1 January 2009, applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
which will impact the presentational disclosure of the financial With effect from 30 April 2007, the Company became the legal statements but will have no impact on the carrying values parent company of Xchanging BV and its subsidiary undertakings.
of items This business combination, effected through an exchange of IFRS 3 Revised, Business combinations Comprehensive equity interests, was accounted for as a reverse acquisition revision on applying the acquisition method effective from in accordance with IFRS 3, Business combinations.
The key 1 July 2009, which will impact the way future acquisitions are features of this basis of consolidation are: reported.
The Group will apply IFRS 3 from 1 January 2010 the comparative consolidated income statement presented with the main changes being that directly attributable costs includes the results of Xchanging BV and its subsidiaries for such as advisers fees and stamp duty will be charged to the the period until 30 April 2007, with the addition of the results income statement, revisions to contingent cash consideration of Xchanging plc from 30 April 2007 in the period following the acquisition will be recorded in the the consolidated retained earnings reserves of the Group income statement and any difference between the fair value include the pre Xchanging plc acquisition retained earnings of the consideration in the buy out of minority interests and of Xchanging BV and its subsidiaries.
the value of their reported minority interest will be recorded against equity rather than goodwill All values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 IFRS 8, Operating segments effective from 1 January 2009, except where otherwise stated.
the expected impact of which is still being assessed by The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under management but is not likely to have a material impact the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation on the Groups segmental reporting disclosure of available-for-sale investments, financial assets and financial IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, liabilities at fair value through profit and loss.
A summary of minimum funding requirements and their interaction the more important Group accounting policies is set out below.
effective from 1 January 2009, providing guidance on assessing the limit in IAS 19 on the amount of surplus that The preparation of financial statements in conformity with can be recognised as an asset.
It also provides an explanation EU endorsed IFRS requires the use of judgements, estimates for how the pension asset or liability may be affected by and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and a statutory or contractual minimum funding requirement.
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported This interpretation is not likely to have a material impact amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
on the Groups financial statements Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Note 4 of these financial statements sets out the areas where significant judgements, estimates and assumptions have been made.
indd 6 31 03 2009 09:50:29 Financial statements and information annual report and accounts 2008 IFRS 2 Amendment, Share-based payments 2 Principal accounting policies continued amendment to vesting conditions and cancellations i Basis of preparation of the financial statements continued IFRIC 15, Agreements for construction of real estates c New standards and interpretations to existing standards that There are a number of minor amendments to IAS 20, are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Accounting for government grants and disclosure of Group continued government assistance, IAS 29, Financial reporting IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation in hyperinflationary economies, IAS 31, Interests in joint effective from 1 October 2008, clarifies the accounting ventures, IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation, treatment in respect of net investment hedging.
This includes IAS 38 Amendment, Intangible assets, IAS 40 the fact that net investment hedging relates to differences in Amendment, Investment property, IAS 41, Agriculture, functional currency not presentation currency, and hedging IFRS 5, Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued instruments may be held anywhere in the Group.
The operations, which are part of the IASBs annual requirements of IAS 21, The effects of changes in foreign improvements project published in May 2008.
These exchange rates do apply to the hedged item.
The impact of amendments are not relevant for the Groups operations.
IFRIC 16 is being assessed by management, but it is not likely to have a material impact on the Groups financial statements ii Basis of consolidation There are a number of minor amendments to IFRS 7, The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company Financial instruments: Disclosures, IAS 8, Accounting and all of its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 31 December policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors, each year and are based on consistent accounting policies.
IAS 10, Events after the reporting period, IAS 18, Revenue, Subsidiary undertakings include those companies in which the IAS 19, Employee benefits, IAS 34, Interim financial Company has a 50% equity stake, commonly referred to by the reporting, IAS 36, Impairment of assets, IAS 38, Directors as Enterprise Partnerships, but over which the Company Intangible assets and IAS 39, Financial instruments: has the power of overall operational and financial control.
Recognition and measurement, which are part of the IASBs annual improvements project published in May 2008.
Interests acquired in subsidiary undertakings are consolidated These amendments are unlikely to have an impact on the from the date power to control passes to the Group.
Groups financial statements, and have therefore not been Transactions and balances, including unrealised profits and analysed in detail.
losses, between Group companies are eliminated.
The interest of minority shareholders in the balance sheet is stated at the d Interpretations to existing standards that are not yet minoritys proportion of the carrying values of the assets and effective and not relevant for the Groups operations liabilities recognised.
The following interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods iii Business combinations beginning on or after 1 January 2009 but are not relevant for the Business combinations are accounted for under the purchase Groups operations: method of accounting as set out in IFRS 3.
A business IAS 16 Amendment, Property, plant and equipment combination is deemed to have occurred where the Group and consequential amendment to IAS 7, Statement of acquires a third party business, either in whole or in part, cash flows so that it obtains control of that business.
IAS 27 Revised, Consolidated and separate financial Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business statements consequential amendment arising from combination are measured initially at their fair values at amendments to IFRS 3 acquisition date.
Any excess of the fair value of purchase IAS 23 Amendment, Borrowing costs consideration and direct expenses of acquisition over the fair IAS 28, Investments in associates consequential value of the net assets acquired, including intangibles and amendment arising from amendments to IFRS 3 contingent liabilities, is recognised as goodwill.
If the cost of IAS 31, Investments in joint ventures consequential acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the amendment arising from amendments to IFRS 3 subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in IAS 32 Amendment, Financial instruments: Presentation the income statement.
and IAS 1 Amendment, Presentation of financial statements in respect of puttable financial instruments The fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and obligations arising on liquidation are initially stated on a provisional basis, but are finalised IFRS 1 Amendment, First time adoption of IFRS, and over a 12 month period, as permitted under IFRS 3.
IAS 27, Consolidated and separate financial statements Xchanging plc 71 4 XCH ar08 back.
indd 7 31 03 2009 09:50:30 annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued revenue in respect of the rental or maintenance of computer iv Revenue recognition software programs is recognised as earned.
Billings are Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received included in trade receivables in accordance with the terms of or receivable, excluding value added tax, rebates and discounts.
the relevant rental or maintenance contract.
To the extent that It comprises the value of services provided for human resources, billings are recorded in advance of the relevant revenue, such procurement services, securities processing, finance and advance billings are included in deferred income.
The income accounting services, customer administration and software sales.
arising from the sale of an initial licence is recognised upfront with implementation income being recognised over the period Revenue from the provision of human resources and finance of implementation of the software.
and accounting services is recognised according to the period to which the service relates, net of guaranteed rebates to v Finance costs customers, when all obligations are fulfilled.
Finance costs are charged to the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
Revenue from the provision of procurement services is recognised on a gross basis where the Group is responsible for the whole vi Finance income supply chain process and associated business process from Finance income is reported in the income statement as it arises end-to-end.
Where the Group acts as an agent, revenue is through the application of the effective interest rate method.
Revenue is recognised, net of vii Dividend distributions guaranteed rebates to customers, according to the period Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are to which the service relates and only when all obligations recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in are fulfilled.
the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys Revenue from the provision of securities processing services is shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
recognised according to the period to which the service relates, viii Foreign currency transactions net of guaranteed rebates to customers.
a Functional and presentation currency The Group provides administration services to the insurance Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups market, from which there are three principal sources of revenue.
entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic These, together with the bases of revenue recognition, are set environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
out below: The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, revenue in respect of the provision of administration which is the Groups presentation currency.
services comprises amounts receivable for subscription fees, b Transactions and balances a transaction charge for the provision of administration Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional services and other ad hoc services.
Subscription fees are currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the recognised in the income statement according to the period transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from to which they relate.
Transactional revenue for these services the settlement of such transactions and from the translation is recognised in the period in which the transaction takes at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities place.
Ad hoc revenue is recognised in the period in which denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the the service is provided income statement.
revenue in respect of business process services contracts is divided into an implementation phase and a service provision Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets such phase.
Revenue in respect of the implementation phase is as equities classified as available-for-sale are included in the accounted for on a long-term contract basis where it is revaluation reserve in equity.
separable from the provision of administration services.
c Group companies Revenue and attributable profit are recognised on a percentage The results and financial position of all the Group entities none of completion basis representing the stage of completion of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have contractual obligations.
Revenue in respect of the provision a functional currency different from the presentation currency are of post-implementation administration services to business translated into the presentation currency as follows: process services customers is recognised in the period to assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are which the service relates translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet 72 Xchanging plc 4 XCH ar08 back.
indd 8 31 03 2009 09:50:30 Financial statements and information annual report and accounts 2008 2 Principal accounting policies continued x Intangible assets viii Foreign currency transactions continued a Development costs c Group companies continued Development costs are stated at cost less a provision for income and expenses for each income statement are amortisation and any provision for impairment.
Research translated at monthly average exchange rates unless this costs are expensed as incurred.
average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative Costs incurred during the development period of new contracts, effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in including the costs of process and system designs that which case income and expenses are translated at the rate substantially improve those processes and systems already on the dates of the transactions installed in the Enterprise Partnerships, are treated as all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate development costs.
Expenditure relating to these clearly defined component of equity.
and identifiable development projects is recognised as an Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition intangible asset only where costs can be reliably measured of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the and after the following criteria have been met: foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
the technical feasibility and commercial viability of the development project have been demonstrated d Hedging the availability of adequate technical and financial resources The Group applies cash flow hedge accounting when it hedges and an intention to complete the project have been confirmed exposure to variability in cash flows associated with a recognised future economic benefits are expected.
asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction and where the hedge is expected to be highly effective.
Costs that are capitalised comprise directly attributable incremental costs incurred during the development period, including wages The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging and salaries of staff employed solely for the purpose of improving instrument is recognised directly in equity, while any ineffective the processes and systems, and third party costs.
portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Development costs do not include restructuring costs including ix Goodwill redundancy, early termination penalties and such like which are Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition expensed to the income statement as they are incurred.
to IFRS, 1 January 2003, is stated at net book value at the date of transition.
This goodwill had been amortised on a straight-line Amortisation of development costs occurs on a straight-line basis over its useful economic life being 10 years.
basis over the life of the contract to which they relate between 6 and 12 years.
This period represents the useful life of the Goodwill recognised subsequent to 1 January 2003, arising from intangible asset.
the purchase of subsidiary undertakings, represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid over the fair value of b Software costs the identifiable net assets including intangible assets acquired.
Software costs are capitalised where they meet the criteria for Goodwill is capitalised as an intangible asset.
Where the criteria for capitalisation are not met, software development expenditure is expensed as incurred.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment reviews are Software development costs are amortised on a straight-line basis performed annually to ensure the present value of estimated at an annual rate of 20% or over the life of the related contract, future net income streams from the associated contracts, being where appropriate, so as to write off the asset cost on a the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated, and straight-line basis over the expected useful economic life.
discounted using discount rates specific to the Group, exceeds Purchased software is stated at cost and amortised the goodwill capitalised.
Any impairment losses identified are on a straight-line basis over three years.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
c Assets in the course of development Assets in the course of development are not amortised until the Purchases of the minority interests shareholdings result in asset is brought into use.
goodwill, being the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share of the carrying value of net assets of the Subsequent expenditure undertaken to ensure that an asset subsidiary acquired.
maintains its previously assessed standard of performance, for example, routine repairs and maintenance expenditure, is recognised in the income statement as it is incurred.
Where subsequent expenditure significantly enhances an asset, this is capitalised.
indd 9 31 03 2009 09:50:30 annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the extent x Intangible assets continued that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying d Contractual customer relationships amount that would have been determined had no impairment Contractual customer relationships are capitalised on acquisition loss been recognised for the asset cash-generating unit in prior where they meet the criteria for recognition under IFRS 3 and IAS years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the 38.
Amortisation of customer contractual relationships is in line income statement immediately.
with the expected length of the customer relationship, which is xiii Financial instruments between one and eight years.
a Financial assets xi Property, plant and equipment Classification Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated The Group classifies its financial assets into one of the following depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
The cost of categories: loans and receivables, available-for-sale and financial property, plant and equipment is their purchase cost, together assets at fair value through profit or loss.
The classification with any incidental costs of acquisition.
depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
The Group determines the classification of its financial Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of the assets, assets at initial recognition: less their estimated residual values, on a straight-line basis over loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned.
fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an The principal annual rates used for this purpose are: active market.
They are included in current assets, except for Leasehold improvements over the period of the lease maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet Computer equipment 20 33% date.
These are classified as non-current assets Fixtures and fittings 10 25% available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are Motor vehicles 25% either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, unless management intends to dispose of the investment and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
within 12 months of the balance sheet date xii Impairment of tangible and intangible assets financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are residual At each balance sheet date, management reviews its tangible equities purchased as part of a requisitioned trade on behalf assets to determine whether there is any indication that those of a client of the Financial Markets sector and are held at their assets have suffered an impairment loss.
Intangible assets are fair value until the opportunity arises to sell the equity as part reviewed if a trigger event is deemed to have happened.
If any of a new requisitioned trade by a client.
They are included such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is within current assets and classified as held-for-trading assets estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment within trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that Recognition and measurement are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the on the trade date the date on which the Group commits to asset belongs.
purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are initially recognised Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future carried at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets are cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the discount rate that reflects the current market assessments of the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Available-for-sale financial assets are subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit the effective interest method.
Held-for-trading assets are carried is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying at fair value through profit and loss.
amount of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or expense immediately.
impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the income statement as gains and Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying losses from investment securities.
amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the 74 Xchanging plc 4 XCH ar08 back.
indd 10 31 03 2009 09:50:30 Financial statements and information annual report and accounts 2008 2 Principal accounting policies continued xv Trade and other receivables xiii Financial instruments continued Trade and other receivables are recognised at fair value and a Financial assets continued subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision for Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are recognised impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is in the income statement as part of finance income when the established when there is objective evidence that the Group will Groups right to receive payments is established.
Gains or losses not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original arising from changes in the fair values of other financial assets terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the at fair value through profit and loss are presented within cost of debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or sales in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments Changes in the fair value of monetary and non-monetary are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
securities classified as available-for-sale are recognised in equity.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid flows.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
the use of an allowance account.
Impaired debts are derecognised The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is when they are assessed as uncollectible.
objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial Pre-contract costs comprise legal and other professional expenses assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as and other directly attributable staff costs incurred in order to available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair obtain specific customer contracts.
Costs that are directly value of the security below its cost is considered to be an attributable to a contract are deferred when it is virtually certain indicator that the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence that the contract will be awarded and the contract will result in exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss future net cash inflows with a present value at least equal to all measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the amounts recognised as an asset.
current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from equity Pre-contract costs are included within trade and other receivables and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses and are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are contract, starting from the date when the contract commences.
not reversed through the income statement.
xvi Cash and cash equivalents b Convertible debt Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, demand Short-term and long-term convertible loans are classified as loans deposits and short-term highly liquid investments which are and are separated into debt and equity elements upon initial readily convertible to cash and are subject to minimal risk of recognition.
The liability is measured at amortised cost using the changes in value.
The effective interest rate is the xvii Trade and other payables market rate in effect at the date of inception of the instrument.
Trade and other payables are recognised at fair value and The initial carrying amount is then accreted over the expected life subsequently measured at amortised cost.
of the instrument to the face amount payable on maturity.
The xviii Operating and finance leases equity element is recognised directly in the equity reserves and is Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of not subsequently re-measured during the life of the instrument.
ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating On conversion of the convertible debt, the fair value of the leases.
Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the liability together with the portion recognised in equity is income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
transferred to share capital and share premium.
Lease incentives provided by lessors to the Group are amortised over the lease term together with any related costs of acquiring xiv Put options granted to minority shareholders the lease.
In accordance with IAS 32, when minority interests hold put options that enable them to sell their investments to the Group, Assets held under finance leases are initially reported at the lower the net present value of the future payment is reflected as a of the fair value of the assets and the present value of minimum financial liability in the consolidated balance sheet.
At the end lease payments with an equivalent liability categorised as of each period, the valuation of the liability is reassessed with appropriate under current or non-current liabilities.
The asset any changes recognised in the income statement for the period.
is depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and its useful economic life.
Finance charges are allocated to accounting periods over the period of the lease to produce a constant rate of return on the outstanding balance.
indd 11 31 03 2009 09:50:30 annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued The Group participates in a number of defined benefit schemes xix Taxation including deferred taxation which are multi-employer schemes and where insufficient Current and deferred tax is recognised at the amount expected information exists to be able to account for the schemes as to be paid to or recovered from the taxation authorities on the defined benefit plans as there is no consistent and reliable basis basis of tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively for allocating the obligations, plan assets and costs to individual enacted by the balance sheet date.
entities participating in these schemes.
In accordance with IAS 19 such schemes are accounted for as defined contribution schemes Deferred tax is recognised under the liability method on an and contributions are charged to the income statement as incurred.
undiscounted basis in respect of all temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where Contributions to the Groups defined contribution schemes are transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more, charged to the income statement as incurred.
or a right to pay less, tax in the future have occurred at the b Share-based compensation balance sheet date, with the following exceptions: The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based where the temporary difference arises from the initial compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a received in exchange for the grant of an equity-settled transaction transaction that is not a business combination that at the is recognised as an expense over the periods in which the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the vesting date profit or loss of the award.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting deferred tax assets are regarded as recoverable and therefore period is determined by reference to the fair value of the equity recognised, only when, on the basis of all available evidence, instruments granted.
Non-market vesting conditions are included the Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there in assumptions about the number of options that are expected will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal to vest.
At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the underlying temporary differences can be deducted.
of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the items that are credited or charged to equity.
Otherwise, income income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
tax is recognised directly in the income statement.
Awards, where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market xx Employee benefit costs condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance a Pension obligations conditions are satisfied.
The Group operates, or participates in, both defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes.
All the pension schemes The proceeds received, net of any directly attributable transaction are accounted for in accordance with IAS 19. costs, are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
Professional independent actuaries value the defined benefit schemes triennially and the valuations are updated at each year xxi Provisions end using the projected unit credit method.
Scheme assets are Provisions are recognised when a present obligation exists as the measured using closing market values at the balance sheet date.
result of a past event and it is probable that this will result in an Pension scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit outflow of economic benefit, the amount of which can be reliably method and discounted at the current rate of return on a high estimated.
Where the provision is long-term, such as onerous quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the contract provisions where the unavoidable costs of meeting liability.
Variations between the scheme assets and liabilities obligations exceed any economic benefits expected to be identified as a result of these actuarial valuations actuarial gains received, the net cash flows are discounted using the Groups and losses are recognised in full through the statement of appropriate pre-tax discount rate.
recognised income and expense SORIE in the period in which Restructuring provisions are only recognised if an obligation exists they arise.
Current service costs, expected returns on plan at the balance sheet date, i. e. a formal plan exists and those assets and interest costs are charged to the income statement.
affected by that plan have a valid expectation that the Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless restructuring will be carried out.
the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting xxii Share capital period.
In this case, the past-service costs are amortised on a Share capital comprises the nominal value of all issued shares.
straight-line basis over the vesting period.
On subscribing for shares any excess consideration over the nominal value of the shares issued less any issue costs is credited to the share premium account.
