annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 1 General information a Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2008 Xchanging plc is a limited liability company incorporated and There are no new standards effective in 2008 which are relevant domiciled in the UK.
The address of its registered office is for the Group.
The nature of the b Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2008 Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the but not relevant for the Group Directors report on pages 48 to 51 and discussed further on The following standards, amendments and interpretations are pages 1 to 37.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on mandatory for the first time for the current accounting period the London Stock Exchange.
but are not relevant to the Groups operations: IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions IFRIC 12, Service concession arrangements 2 Principal accounting policies IFRIC 13, Customer loyalty programmes.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies c New standards and interpretations to existing standards that are have been consistently applied to both years presented, unless not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group otherwise stated.
The following new standards and interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for the Groups i Basis of preparation of the financial statements future accounting but which the Group has not early adopted: These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IAS 1 Revised, Presentation of financial statements EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRIC Comprehensive revision including a statement of interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 comprehensive income effective from 1 January 2009, applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
which will impact the presentational disclosure of the financial With effect from 30 April 2007, the Company became the legal statements but will have no impact on the carrying values parent company of Xchanging BV and its subsidiary undertakings.
of items This business combination, effected through an exchange of IFRS 3 Revised, Business combinations Comprehensive equity interests, was accounted for as a reverse acquisition revision on applying the acquisition method effective from in accordance with IFRS 3, Business combinations.
The key 1 July 2009, which will impact the way future acquisitions are features of this basis of consolidation are: reported.
The Group will apply IFRS 3 from 1 January 2010 the comparative consolidated income statement presented with the main changes being that directly attributable costs includes the results of Xchanging BV and its subsidiaries for such as advisers fees and stamp duty will be charged to the the period until 30 April 2007, with the addition of the results income statement, revisions to contingent cash consideration of Xchanging plc from 30 April 2007 in the period following the acquisition will be recorded in the the consolidated retained earnings reserves of the Group income statement and any difference between the fair value include the pre Xchanging plc acquisition retained earnings of the consideration in the buy out of minority interests and of Xchanging BV and its subsidiaries.
the value of their reported minority interest will be recorded against equity rather than goodwill All values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 IFRS 8, Operating segments effective from 1 January 2009, except where otherwise stated.
the expected impact of which is still being assessed by The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under management but is not likely to have a material impact the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation on the Groups segmental reporting disclosure of available-for-sale investments, financial assets and financial IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, liabilities at fair value through profit and loss.
A summary of minimum funding requirements and their interaction the more important Group accounting policies is set out below.
effective from 1 January 2009, providing guidance on assessing the limit in IAS 19 on the amount of surplus that The preparation of financial statements in conformity with can be recognised as an asset.
It also provides an explanation EU endorsed IFRS requires the use of judgements, estimates for how the pension asset or liability may be affected by and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and a statutory or contractual minimum funding requirement.
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported This interpretation is not likely to have a material impact amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
on the Groups financial statements Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Note 4 of these financial statements sets out the areas where significant judgements, estimates and assumptions have been made.
