Financial statements and information annual report and accounts 2008 2 Principal accounting policies continued The Group does not hedge profit translation risk.
The Group will xxiii Fair value estimation create natural balance sheet hedging by matching assets and The fair values of short-term loans and overdrafts with a maturity of liabilities by currency where possible.
Annuity exposures will not less than one year are assumed to approximate to their book values.
be hedged except under exceptional circumstances.
Specific For loans due in more than one year the fair value of financial one-off exposures may be hedged.
liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the iii Liquidity risk future contractual cash flows at the market interest rate available The Group actively manages its liquidity risk through cash to the Group for similar financial instruments.
The fair value for management, including detailed weekly short-term and monthly available-for-sale investments and held-for-trading equity securities long-term cash flow forecasting, which support regular reviews is based on their quoted market price.
The Groups policy is to ensure that all xxiv Exceptional items projected borrowing needs are covered by committed facilities, Exceptional items are events or transactions that fall within the maintaining a minimum funding headroom of 30 million of activities of the Group, and, which by virtue of their size or committed funding for a period of 12 months.
incidence, have been disclosed in order to improve a readers iv Market risk and price risk understanding of the financial statements.
The Group holds listed investments, which expose the Group to equity securities price risk.
These investments are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure their suitability according to the Groups 3 Financial risk management risk profile.
The Groups operations expose it to a variety of financial risks.
The Group manages these risks under financial risk management v Credit risk policies, which the Board reviews and agrees.
The Groups The Group has a concentration of credit risk with respect to trade financial instruments comprise borrowings, cash and liquid receivables due to the nature and structure of the Enterprise resources and various items, such as trade receivables and trade Partnerships.
Credit risk assessments are performed when signing payables that arise directly from its operations.
The Group does up to a new Enterprise Partnership and for new customers.
not normally enter into derivative transactions.
However, such Exposures with banking counterparties are monitored on a transactions may be undertaken to hedge certain currency risks regular basis to ensure exposures are maintained within the arising from the Groups operations.
It is the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments vi Capital risk management or speculative transactions be undertaken.
The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order i Interest rate risk to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other The Group reviews its interest rate profile against acceptable stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure risk profiles.
to reduce the cost of capital.
Currently the Group has a letter of credit, with interest rates In order to maintain the capital structure, the Group may on a fixed basis.
The Group considers debt financing on a adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return case-by-case basis, assessing variable rate versus fixed rate capital to shareholders and sell or purchase assets to reduce proposals based on the value and term of the facility and or increase debt.
The Group seeks to maintain a strong credit profile to aid its Working capital is generally held in variable rate operational ability to partner in business.
The Group will ordinarily aim not accounts, with surplus cash placed on fixed rate short-term to exceed net debt of 2.5 times XEBITDA Xchangings share deposits.
of EBITDA where net debt is defined as all financial ii Foreign exchange risk indebtedness under its loan facility less cash.
The Groups international operations expose the Group to foreign Xchanging operates in a number of regulatory regimes.
The Group currently operates in a number of The securities processing and retail investment account foreign currencies Euro, Indian Rupee, US Dollar, Australian management businesses in Germany, XTB and Fondsdepot Bank, Dollar, Malaysian Ringgit and Thai Baht, of which the only maintain banking licences and are regulated under the German significant transactional foreign currency cash flow exposures Federal Financial Supervisory Authority BaFin.
Components of are Euros, Indian Rupees and US Dollars.
the insurance businesses are regulated in the United Kingdom by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
The Group has complied with all the BaFin and FSA regulations during 2008.
