Financial statements and information annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the Company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 1 Accounting policies is recognised as an expense over the periods in which the Basis of preparation performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the vesting date The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with of the award.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting the Companies Act 1985 and applicable Accounting Standards period is determined by reference to the fair value of the equity in the United Kingdom.
A summary of the more important instruments granted.
Non-market vesting conditions are reflected accounting policies, which have been applied consistently with in assumptions about the number of options that are expected the prior year, is set out below.
At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises No profit and loss account or statement of total recognised gains the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the and losses has been presented by the Company as permitted by profit and loss account, with a corresponding adjustment to Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985. equity.
Awards where vesting is conditional upon a market The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available condition are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the to parent companies under paragraph 3C of FRS 25, Financial market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance instruments: Disclosure and presentation not to provide the conditions are satisfied.
information otherwise required by paragraphs 51 to 95 of the Equity-settled share-based compensation plans that are made standard, as the Groups consolidated financial statements, in available to employees of the Companys subsidiaries are treated which the Company is included, provides equivalent disclosures as increases in equity over the vesting period of the award, under IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures.
with a corresponding increase in the Companys investments i Basis of accounting in subsidiaries, based on an estimate of the number of shares The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the that will eventually vest.
historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable The proceeds received, net of any directly attributable transaction accounting standards.
costs, are credited to share capital nominal value and share ii Going concern premium when the options are exercised.
The Directors believe that preparing the financial statements vii Related party transactions on the going concern basis is appropriate based on projections The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available for the foreseeable future.
in FRS 8 not to disclose transactions with related parties that iii Fixed asset investments are 90% owned by the Group.
Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
Impairment reviews are conducted at the end of the first full year following acquisition and thereafter where indicators 2 Directors emoluments of impairment are present.
As permitted by Section 133 of the Disclosure of the Directors remuneration is contained in the Companies Act 1985, cost is the aggregate of the nominal value Directors remuneration report on pages 58 to 64 and in note 38 of the relevant number of the Companys shares and the fair of the Group financial statements.
value of any other consideration given to acquire the share capital of the subsidiary undertakings.
3 Auditors remuneration iv Dividend income The audit fees payable in relation to the audit of the financial Dividends receivable from the Companys investments in statements of the Company are 135,000 2007: 166,000. subsidiary undertakings are recognised when the Companys Fees paid to the auditors and their associates for non-audit right to receive payment is established.
services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the individual v Debtors financial statements of the Company because Group financial Debtors are recognised at their fair value, which may include statements are prepared which disclose such fees on a a provision for impairment.
vi Share-based payments The Company operates a number of equity-settled share-based 4 Employees compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services The Company has no employees.
received in exchange for the grant of an equity-settled transaction Xchanging plc 119 4 XCH ar08 back.
