Babcock International Group PLC 107 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Shareholder information Financial calendar Financial year end 31 March 2008 2007 08 preliminary results announced 13 May 2008 Annual General Meeting 10 July 2008 Final dividend payment date record date 11 July 2008 8 August 2008 See also Results and dividends on page 37.
Registered office and company number Share dealing service Telephone share dealing 2 Cavendish Square The following share dealing services are Please note this service is, at present, only London W1G 0PX available through our Registrars, available to shareholders resident in the Computershare Investor Services PLC: UK and Ireland.
The commission is 1%, Registered in England subject to a minimum charge of 15.00.
Company number 2342138 Internet share dealing In addition, stamp duty, currently 0.5%, This service provides shareholders with is payable on purchases.
The service Registrars an easy way to buy or sell Babcock is available from 8.00 am to 4.30 pm Computershare Investor Services PLC International Group PLC ordinary Monday to Friday, excluding bank The Pavilions shares on the London Stock Exchange.
holidays, on telephone number Bridgwater Road The commission is just 0.5%, subject to a 0870 703 0084.
Shareholders should Bristol BS99 6ZZ minimum charge of 15.00.
In addition, have their Shareholder Reference Number stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable Shareholder enquiries relating to SRN ready when making the call.
There is no need to open shareholding, dividend payments, change The SRN appears on share certificates.
an account in order to deal.
Real time of address, loss of share certificate etc.
A bank debit card will be required for dealing is available during market hours.
should be addressed to Computershare purchases.
Detailed terms and conditions In addition there is a convenient facility to Investor Services PLC at their address are available on request by telephoning place your order outside of market hours.
Up to 90 day limit orders are available for sales.
To access the service log on to These services are offered on an Independent Auditors www.
execution-only basis and subject to the  LLP Shareholders should have their applicable terms and conditions.
This is 1 Embankment Place Shareholder Reference Number SRN not a recommendation to buy, sell, or London WC2N 6RH available.
The SRN appears on share hold shares in Babcock International certificates.
A bank debit card will be Group PLC.
Shareholders who are unsure Principal UK bankers required for purchases.
Please note that, of what action to take should obtain The Royal Bank of Scotland plc at present, this service is only available independent financial advice.
Share values 135 Bishopsgate to shareholders in certain European may go down as well as up, which may London EC2M 3UR jurisdictions.
Please refer to the website result in a shareholder receiving less than HBOS plc for an up-to-date list of these countries.
Level 7 Bishopsgate Exchange To the extent that this statement is a 155 Bishopsgate financial promotion for the share dealing London service provided by Computershare EC2M 3YB Investor Services PLC, it has been approved by Computershare Investor Investment bankers Services PLC for the purpose of section JPMorgan Cazenove 21 2 b of the Financial Services and 20 Moorgate Markets Act 2000 only.
Computershare London EC2R 6DA Investor Services PLC is authorised and regulated by the Financial Stockbrokers Services Authority.
JPMorgan Cazenove 20 Moorgate Where this has been received in a country London EC2R 6DA where the provision of such a service would be contrary to local laws or regulations, this should be treated as information only.
