Babcock International Group PLC 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notice of meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to what action to take, you should consult your stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other appropriate independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your shares in Babcock International Group PLC, please forward this document and the accompanying Form of Proxy to the person through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
A Form of Proxy for the Annual General Meeting is enclosed and should be completed and returned so as to reach the Companys registrar no later than 9.30 am on 8 July 2008.
Completion and return of the Form of Proxy will not prevent you from attending and voting at the Meeting in person, should you so wish.
BABCOCK INTERNATIONAL GROUP PLC NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the nineteenth Annual General Meeting of the members of Babcock International Group PLC the Company will be held at Savoy Place, 2 Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL on 10 July 2008, at 9.30 am for the transaction of the following business: As Ordinary Business: 1.
To receive the Directors and Auditors reports and the audited financial statements of the Group and the Company for the year ended 31 March 2008.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2008.
To reappoint Mr P L Rogers as a Director of the Company.
To reappoint Mr W Tame as a Director of the Company.
To reappoint Mr D J Shah as a Director of the Company.
To reappoint Mr J L Rennocks as a Director of the Company.
To reappoint Lord Hesketh as a Director of the Company.
To reappoint Mr M J Turner as a Director of the Company.
To approve the Remuneration report of the Directors for the year ended 31 March 2008.
To reappoint  LLP as independent auditors.
To authorise the Directors to set the remuneration of the independent auditors, as they shall in their discretion see fit.
As Special Business, to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions: Ordinary Resolution 12.
That in accordance with sections 366 and 367 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, the Company and all companies that are its subsidiaries at any time during the period for which this resolution is effective are authorised to: a make political donations to a political party or to an independent election candidate: b make political donations to political organisations other than political parties: and c incur any political expenditure, up to an aggregate amount of 100,000, and the amount authorised under each of paragraphs a to c shall also be limited to such amount, during the period beginning with the date of the passing of this resolution and ending on 30 September 2009 or, if sooner, the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2009.
For the purpose of this resolution political donation, political party, political organisation, independent election candidate and political expenditure are to be construed in accordance with sections 363, 364 and 365 of the 2006 Act.
That in lieu of any previous authority for such purposes which has yet to expire, the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of section 80 2 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 45,886,243, this authority to expire on 31 December 2009 or at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2009, whichever shall be the earlier, save that the Company may before such expiry make any offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
That subject to the passing of resolution 13 above, and in lieu of any previous authority for such purposes which has yet to expire, the Directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to section 95 1 of the Act to: a allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 of the Act of the Company for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 13: and b sell relevant shares as defined in section 94 5 of the Act held by the Company as treasury shares as provided for in section 94 3 of the Act treasury shares for cash as defined in section 162D 2 of the Act, as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities for cash and the sale of treasury shares: Babcock International Group PLC 103 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 i in connection with or pursuant to a rights issue or open offer or any other pre-emptive offer in favour of holders of ordinary shares in proportion as nearly as practicable to the respective number of equity securities held by them on the record date for such allotment but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements, treasury shares, record dates or legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory or any other matter whatsoever: or ii otherwise than pursuant to paragraph i of this resolution, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,882,936, and shall expire on 31 December 2009 or at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2009, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may before such expiry make any offer or enter into any agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted, or treasury shares to be sold, after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities, or sell treasury shares in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
That the Company is hereby authorised for the purposes of section 166 of the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Act of ordinary shares of 60p each ordinary shares in the capital of the Company on such terms and in such manner as the Directors may from time to time determine provided that: a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 22,900,000 shares: b the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is not less than the nominal value thereof exclusive of the expenses of purchase: c the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share exclusive of the expenses of purchase shall not exceed 105% of the average middle market quotation for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days preceding the day of purchase: d the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the date falling twelve months from the date of this resolution or at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2009, whichever shall be the earlier, unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and e the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make purchases of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract.
That the Articles of Association produced to the Meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification as New Articles A be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
That with effect from 00.01 am on 1 October 2008, the new Articles of Association adopted pursuant to resolution 15 be amended by the insertion of new article 101A, such amendment being produced to the Meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification as New Articles B.
A N Dungate Company Secretary 10 June 2008 Registered Office: 2 Cavendish Square, London W1G 0PX.
As required by the Combined Code, the reasons why the Board of the Company believes that the Non-Executive Directors standing for reappointment should be reappointed are set out in the Accompanying Notes on page 104.
An explanation of the special business resolutions is given in the Explanatory Notes on pages 105 and 106.
Only holders of shares are entitled to attend and vote at this meeting.
A member is entitled to appoint another person as their proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, to speak and to vote at the meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by the member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A holder of ordinary shares must be entered on the relevant register of securities in respect of such shareholding not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting in order to have the right to attend and vote at the meeting.
A form of proxy is available and, to be effective, must be completed in accordance with the instructions printed thereon and returned so as to be received by the Registrars of the Company not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting.
Completion of a form of proxy will not affect the right of a member to attend and vote in person at the meeting.
Copies of the terms of appointment under which the Non-Executive Directors of the Company are engaged, Executive Directors service agreements and a copy of the proposed new Articles of Association of the Company are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours until the date of the Annual General Meeting and will be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Babcock International Group PLC 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notice of meeting continued 7.
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that in order to have the right to attend and vote at the meeting and also for the purpose of determining how many votes a person entitled to attend and vote may cast, a person must be entered on the register of members of the Company by close of business on 8 July 2008 or, in the event of any adjournment, by close of business on the date which is two days before the day of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of members after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives http: www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may have a right, under an agreement between them and the member by whom they were nominated, to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, they may have a right, under such an agreement, to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the above rights of the members in relation to the appointment of proxies does not apply to Nominated Persons.
Those rights can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
Shareholders should note that it is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the Company under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Company's accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which Annual Report and Accounts were laid in each case that the members propose to raise at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the 2006 Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the 2006 Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
As at 27 May 2008 being the last practicable day prior to the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital consisted of 229,431,215 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at that date were 229, 431,215.
You may not use any electronic address within the meaning of section 333 4 of the 2006 Act provided in this Notice of Meeting or in any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
Accompanying Notes The Combined Code requires the Board to set out the reasons why it believes that the Non-Executive Directors standing for reappointment should be reappointed.
These are as follows: Lord Hesketh The Board continues to value the contribution that Lord Hesketh brings to its meetings, with his longer-term experience of the Groups activities and the markets in which it operates, together with his wide experience in a variety of commercial and political spheres.
Dipesh Shah Mr Shah is an active participant in the Boards deliberations.
His wide experience of various industries, in particular the civil nuclear industry, and as a director of a number of other industrial companies is especially valued.
John Rennocks Mr Rennocks has been a Non-Executive Director since 2002 and the Board especially values his commitment and involvement as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
His financial background and his wide knowledge and experience gained from his other listed company directorships contribute significantly to the balance of skills on the Board.
Mike Turner Mr Turner is a Director of one of Britains largest companies in the defence industry, which is Babcocks largest market.
His extensive knowledge and experience will be a major contribution to the Boards deliberations.
Note from the Chairman: I can confirm, as required by the Combined Code, that having fully evaluated their performances, the Board is of the view that each of Lord Hesketh, Dipesh Shah, John Rennocks and Mike Turner continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to his role.
Gordon Campbell Babcock International Group PLC 105 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Explanatory notes Resolutions 3 to 6: Each of Mr Rogers, Mr Tame, Mr Shah and Mr Rennocks was last re-elected as a Director in 2005 and is therefore offering himself for re-election as required by the Companys Articles of Association and in accordance with the Combined Code.
Resolution 7: Lord Hesketh offers himself for re-election annually as required by the Combined Code, having served more than nine years as a Director.
Resolution 8: Mr Turner having been appointed as a Director with effect from 1 June 2008 by the Board is submitting himself for reappointment as required by the Companys Articles of Association, this being the first Annual General Meeting following his appointment.
Resolution 9: This is to approve the Directors Remuneration report for the financial year ended on 31 March 2008.
You can find the Report on pages 45 to 53 of the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2008.
Resolution 12: It is the Companys policy not to make political donations or incur political expenditure as those expressions are normally understood.
However, certain activities undertaken in the usual course of business may fall within the legal definition of support for a political party or political expenditure.
The authority is sought to ensure that all the activities of the Company fully comply with the law.
Resolution 13: The Directors may only allot shares or grant rights over shares if authorised to do so by shareholders.
13 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to grant a new authority to allot unissued share capital up to an aggregate nominal value of 45,886,243, representing approximately 33.3% of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 27 May 2008.
As at the date of the notice of this meeting the Company held no treasury shares.
If given, this authority will expire on 31 December 2009 or at the Annual General Meeting in 2009, whichever is earlier.
Resolution 14: The Directors also require additional authority from shareholders to allot shares or grant rights over shares or sell treasury shares where they propose to do so for cash and otherwise than to existing shareholders pro rata to their holdings.
14 will be proposed as a special resolution to grant such authority.
Apart from rights issues, open offers or any other pre-emptive offer as mentioned, the authority will be limited to the issue of shares and sales of treasury shares for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of 6,882,936 being 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 27 May 2008.
The Directors will have due regard to institutional guidelines in relation to any exercise of this authority, in particular the requirement for advance consultation and explanation before making any such issue which exceeds 7.5% of the Companys issued share capital in any rolling three-year period.
With the exception of issues, if necessary, of further shares under the Companys executive or employee share schemes, the Directors do not have any present intention of exercising this authority, but consider it desirable to have the flexibility to use it should opportunities arise.
Resolution 15: This will be proposed as a Special Resolution and will renew the general authority for the Company to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares.
The renewed authority, in respect of a little under 10% of the Companys issued share capital as at 27 May 2008, would be exercisable with a minimum purchase price of 60p per share and a maximum price of not more than 105% of the average middle market quotation for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days preceding the day of purchase.
If granted, the authority would expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2009 or, if earlier, 12 months from the date of the resolution.
Shares purchased under the authority would either be cancelled or held by the Company as treasury shares.
The Directors have no present intention of using this power, and would only exercise the power if they were satisfied at any time that it was in the best interests of shareholders generally to do so, and that except in the case of a purchase of own shares to be held as treasury shares to fulfil obligations under the Companys executive or employee share schemes any purchase would be likely to result in an increase in earnings per share.
The Company has no warrants outstanding and the total number of options to subscribe for equity shares outstanding on 27 May 2008 being the latest practicable date before publication of the notice of meeting was 636,631 representing 0.28% of issued share capital as at 27 May 2008.
If the full authority to buy back shares were to be used, and the shares cancelled, these outstanding options would represent 0.31% of issued share capital.
Resolutions 15 and 16: It is proposed in resolutions 15 and 16 to adopt new Articles of Association the New Articles in order to update the Companys current Articles of Association the Current Articles primarily to take account of changes in English company law brought about by the Companies Act 2006.
The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are summarised below.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some more changes which merely reflect changes made by the Companies Act 2006 have not been noted below.
The New Articles, showing all of the changes to the Current Articles are available for inspection at the Companys registered office 2 Cavendish Square, London W1G 0PX during normal working hours.
Articles which duplicate statutory provisions Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions contained in the 1985 Act are in the main amended to bring them into line with the 2006 Act.
Certain examples of such provisions include provisions as to the variation of class rights and provisions regarding the period of notice required to convene general meetings.
The main changes made to reflect this approach are detailed below.
Form of resolution The Current Articles contain a provision that, where for any purpose an ordinary resolution is required, a special or extraordinary resolution is also effective and that, where an extraordinary resolution is required, a special resolution is also effective.
This provision is being amended, as the concept of extraordinary resolutions has not been retained under the 2006 Act.
The Current Articles enable members to act by written resolution.
Under the Companies Act 2006 public companies can no longer pass written resolutions.
These provisions have therefore been removed in the New Articles.
Babcock International Group PLC 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notice of meeting continued 3.
Variation of class rights The Current Articles contain provisions regarding the variation of class rights.
The proceedings and specific quorum requirements for a meeting convened to vary class rights are contained in the 2006 Act.
The relevant provisions have therefore been amended in the New Articles.
Convening extraordinary and Annual General Meetings The provisions in the Current Articles dealing with the convening of general meetings and the length of notice required to convene general meetings are being amended to conform to new provisions in the 2006 Act.
In particular, an extraordinary general meeting to consider a special resolution can be convened on 14 days notice whereas previously 21 days notice was required.
Votes of members Under the 2006 Act, proxies are entitled to vote on a show of hands whereas under the Current Articles proxies are only entitled to vote on a poll.
The 2006 Act also entitles proxies to speak.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share held by the shareholder.
Multiple corporate representatives may be appointed.
The New Articles reflect these new provisions.
Age of Directors on appointment The Current Articles contain a provision limiting the age at which a Director can be appointed.
Such a provision could now fall foul of the Employment Equality Age Regulations 2006 and so has been removed from the New Articles.
Directors indemnities and loans to fund expenditure The 2006 Act has in some areas widened the scope of the powers of a company to indemnify directors and to fund expenditure incurred in connection with certain actions against directors.
In particular, the existing exemption allowing a company to provide money for the purpose of funding a directors defence in court proceedings now expressly covers regulatory proceedings and applies to associated companies.
Also, a company that is, and a company that has an associated company that is, a trustee of an occupational pension scheme can now indemnify a director of the company that is a trustee of an occupational pension scheme against liability incurred in connection with the activities of the company that is the trustee, where such activities relate to the scheme.
The amendments proposed to the Current Articles reflect the new provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Joint holders In order to make the flow of information more efficient between the Company and any joint shareholders, the Current Articles are being amended so that where there are joint shareholders, anything agreed with or specified to the Company by any one joint shareholder will have been deemed to have been agreed with or specified to the Company by all the joint shareholders.
Borrowing powers The provisions regulating the power of the Company to borrow money are being amended so that any provision in the Group's accounts which is required by International Accounting Standard 39 is disregarded for the purpose of calculating the Company's borrowing powers.
Director fees The limit on the basic fees payable to Non-Executive Directors will be increased from 40,000 per director a figure set in 2002 to an aggregate amount of 750,000 this will allow headroom for the payment of Non-Executive Directors fees to keep pace with market rates and as the Company grows in size.
The following provisions are coming into effect on 1 October 2008 and hence are the subject of a separate resolution.
Conflicts of interest The 2006 Act sets out directors general duties which largely codify the existing law but with some changes.
The provisions relating to conflicts of interest come into effect on 1 October 2008 and it is not possible to reflect them in the Company's Articles of Association until the new legislation is in force.
Under the 2006 Act, from 1 October 2008 a Director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The 2006 Act also allows the articles of association to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The New Articles, as proposed to be altered with effect from 1 October 2008, give the Directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision and, secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the companys success.
The directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
It is also proposed that the New Articles should contain provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at Board meetings and availability of Board papers to protect a Director being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict has previously been authorised by the Directors.
It is the Boards intention to report annually on the Companys procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers to authorise conflicts are operated effectively and that the procedures have been followed.
