Notes to the Financial Statements Defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement medical plans 1.
Corporate Information Note 35 outlines the significant assumptions made when accounting for defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement medical plans.
The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue Changes to these assumptions may alter the resulting accounting and in accordance with a directors resolution on 2 March 2009.
The ultimately the amount charged to the income statement.
ultimate parent entity of the Group, Xstrata plc, is a publicly traded limited company incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled 5.
Changes in Accounting Policies, New in Switzerland.
Its ordinary shares are traded on the London and Swiss stock exchanges.
Standards and Interpretations Not Applied The principal activities of the Group are described in note 9.
Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the 2.
Statement of Compliance consolidated financial statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation of the Groups annual financial statements for The consolidated financial statements of Xstrata plc and its subsidiaries the year ended 31 December 2007, except for the adoption of the Group are prepared in accordance with International Financial the following new standards and interpretations: Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations of the International IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury Share Transactions Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC, as adopted The Group adopted IFRIC 11 which details the requirements of by the European Union, effective for the Groups reporting for the accounting for share-based payment arrangements that involve year ended 31 December 2008. numerous entities within the same Group.
The adoption of this interpretation had no impact on Group earnings or equity in the current or prior years.
Basis of Preparation IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which Requirements and their interaction is the parents functional and presentation currency, and all values are The Group adopted IFRIC 14 which details the requirements of rounded to the nearest million except where otherwise indicated.
accounting for post-employment and other long-term defined benefit plans when minimum funding requirements exist and The accounting policies in note 6 have been applied in preparing when an entity may regard refunds or reductions in future the consolidated financial statements.
The adoption of this interpretation had no impact on Group earnings or equity in the current 4.
Significant Accounting Judgements or prior years.
and Estimates IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs The Group early adopted IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs which Estimates requires that borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the The preparation of these financial statements requires management acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset be to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the capitalised as a cost of that asset.
The adoption of this standard reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and had no impact on Group earnings or equity in the current or the disclosure of contingent liabilities, at the date of the financial prior years.
Actual outcomes could differ from these estimates.
New standards and interpretations not applied The below are the most critical judgements, estimates and assumptions: The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and Estimated recoverable reserves and resources interpretations with an effective date after the date of these Estimated recoverable reserves and resources are used to determine financial statements, consequently, these pronouncements will the depreciation of mine production assets, in accounting for deferred impact the Groups financial statements in future periods.
stripping costs and in performing impairment testing.
Estimates are Effective date prepared by appropriately qualified persons, but will be impacted by IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a 1 October 2008 forecast commodity prices, exchange rates, production costs and Foreign Operation recoveries amongst other factors.
Changes in assumptions will impact IFRS 2 Revised Share-Based Payments 1 January 2009 the carrying value of assets and depreciation and impairment charges IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial 1 January 2009 recorded in the income statement.
Statements IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009 Environmental rehabilitation costs The provisions for rehabilitation costs are based on estimated future IAS 27 Amended Consolidated and 1 July 2009 Separate Financial Statements costs using information available at the balance sheet date.
To the IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations 1 July 2009 extent the actual costs differ from these estimates, adjustments will be recorded and the income statement may be impacted refer to The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards note 32. and interpretations on their effective dates will have a material impact Impairment testing on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application, Note 15 outlines the significant assumptions made in performing notwithstanding IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations may impact impairment testing of non-current assets.
Changes in these assumptions the financial statements should there be an acquisition in the period.
may alter the results of impairment testing, impairment charges Upon adoption of IFRS 8, the Group will be required to disclose recorded in the income statement and the resulting carrying values segment information based on the information management uses of assets.
for internally evaluating the performance of operating segments and allocating resources to those segments.
This information may be Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 117 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Jointly controlled entities 5.
Changes in Accounting Policies, New A jointly controlled entity involves the establishment of a corporation, Standards and Interpretations Not Applied partnership or other legal entity in which the Group has an interest continued along with other venturers.
The Group recognises its interest in jointly controlled entities using the different from that reported in the balance sheet and income proportionate method of consolidation, whereby the Groups share of statement but the Group will provide an explanation for such each of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the joint venture differences.
There will be no impact on the income, net assets are combined with the similar items, line by line, in its consolidated or equity of the Group.
When the Group contributes or sells assets to a joint venture, any gain 6.
Principal Accounting Policies or loss from the transaction is recognised based on the substance of the transaction.
When the Group has transferred the risk and rewards of Basis of consolidation ownership to the joint venture, the Group only recognises the portion The financial statements consolidate the financial statements of of the gain or loss attributable to the other venturers, unless the loss Xstrata plc the Company and its subsidiaries the Group.
All interis reflective of an impairment, in which case the loss is recognised in entity balances and transactions, including unrealised profits and full.
When the Group purchases assets from the joint venture, it does losses arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated in not recognise its share of the profits of the joint venture from the full.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are consolidated for transaction until it resells the assets to an independent party.
Losses are the periods from or to the date on which control passes.
Control is accounted for in a similar manner unless they represent an impairment achieved where the Group has the power to govern the financial and loss, in which case they are recognised immediately.
operating policy of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
This occurs when the Group has more than 50% voting power Joint ventures are accounted for in the manner outlined above, until through ownership or agreements, except where minority rights are the date on which the Group ceases to have joint control over the such that a minority shareholder is able to prevent the Group from joint venture.
In addition, control may exist without having more Investments in associates than 50% voting power through ownership or agreements, or in the Entities in which the Group has significant influence and which circumstances of enhanced minority rights, as a consequence of fide are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, are associates, and facto control.
fide facto control is control without the legal right to are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
exercise unilateral control, and involves decision-making ability that is not shared with others and the ability to give directions with respect Under the equity method of accounting, the investment in the to the operating and financial policies of the entity concerned.
Where associate is recognised on the balance sheet on the date of acquisition there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the financial statements at the fair value of the purchase consideration where this is higher include the results for the part of the reporting period during which than the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired, or, if the Xstrata plc has control.
Subsidiaries use the same reporting period purchase consideration is less than the fair value of the identifiable net and same accounting policies as Xstrata plc.
assets acquired, at the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired.
In this way goodwill is included within the associate balance when Interests in joint ventures the fair value of the investment is less than the consideration paid.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more The carrying amount is adjusted by the Groups share of the postparties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
acquisition profit or loss, depreciation, amortisation or impairment The financial statements of the joint ventures are generally prepared arising from fair value adjustments made at date of acquisition and for the same reporting period as the Company, using consistent certain inter-entity transactions together with a reduction for any accounting policies.
Adjustments are made to bring into line any dividends received or receivable from the associate.
Where there dissimilar accounting policies that may exist in the underlying records has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate, of the joint venture.
the Group recognises its share of such changes in equity.
Jointly controlled operations The financial statements of the associates are generally prepared for A jointly controlled operation involves the use of assets and the same reporting period as the Group, using consistent accounting other resources of the Group and other venturers rather than policies.
Adjustments are made to bring into line any dissimilar the establishment of a corporation, partnership or other entity.
accounting policies that may exist in the underlying records of The Group accounts for the assets it controls and the liabilities the associate.
Where an associate prepares its financial statements it incurs, the expenses it incurs and the share of income that it using a different reporting period, an estimate of the Groups share earns from the sale of goods or services by the joint venture.
of the associates profit or loss is made based on the most reliable information available.
Adjustments are made in the consolidated Jointly controlled assets financial statements to eliminate the Groups share of unrealised A jointly controlled asset involves joint control and ownership by the gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its associates.
Group and other venturers of assets contributed to or acquired for the purpose of the joint venture, without the formation of a corporation, The Group discontinues its use of the equity method from the date partnership or other entity.
on which it ceases to have significant influence, and from that date, accounts for the investment in accordance with IAS 39 with its initial The Group accounts for its share of the jointly controlled assets, any cost being the carrying amount of the associate at that date, provided liabilities it has incurred, its share of any liabilities jointly incurred with the investment does not then qualify as a subsidiary or joint venture.
other ventures, income from the sale or use of its share of the joint ventures output, together with its share of the expenses incurred by The Groups income statement reflects the share of associates the joint venture, and any expenses it incurs in relation to its interest results after tax and the Groups statement of recognised income in the joint venture.
and expense includes any amounts recognised by associates outside of the income statement.
118 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 Business combinations component of equity.
Exchange differences relating to quasi equity On the acquisition of a subsidiary, the purchase method of accounting is inter-company loan balances with the foreign operations which form used, whereby the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable part of the net investment in the foreign operation are also recognised assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities identifiable net assets on the in this component of equity.
On disposal or partial disposal of a basis of fair value at the date of acquisition.
Those mining rights, mineral foreign entity or on repayment of loans forming part of the net reserves and resources that are able to be reliably valued are recognised investment in the foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount in the assessment of fair values on acquisition.
Other potential reserves, recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation is resources and mineral rights, for which in the directors opinion, values recognised in the income statement.
cannot be reliably determined, are not recognised.
Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings to finance net When the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair values attributable to the investments and tax charges credits attributable to those exchange Groups share of the identifiable net assets, the difference is treated differences are also recorded in a separate component of equity to as purchased goodwill, which is not amortised but is reviewed for the extent that the hedge is effective.
Upon full or partial disposal or impairment annually or where there is an indication of impairment.
repayment of the net investment in the foreign operation including If the fair value attributable to the Groups share of the identifiable loans that form part of the net investment, the cumulative amount of net assets exceeds the cost of acquisition, the difference is immediately the exchange differences is recognised in the income statement when recognised in the income statement.
the gain or loss on disposal or the loan repayment is recognised.
Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets The following exchange rates to the US dollar US$ have been applied: in subsidiaries that are not held by the Group and are presented in Average Average equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, separately from the parents 31 December 12 months 31 December 12 months shareholders equity.
2008 2008 2007 2007 Argentine pesos When a subsidiary is acquired in a number of stages, the cost of each US$:ARS 3.4538 3.1631 3.1500 3.1155 stage is compared with the fair value of the identifiable net assets at Australian the date of that purchase.
Any excess is treated as goodwill, or any dollars discount is immediately recognised in the income statement.
On the AUD:US$ 0.7048 0.8522 0.8751 0.8389 date control is obtained, the identifiable net assets are recognised Canadian dollars in the Group balance sheet at fair value and the difference between US$:CAD 1.2205 1.0670 0.9984 1.0740 the fair value recognised and the value on the date of the purchase Chilean pesos is recognised in the asset revaluation reserve.
US$:CLP 637.25 523.87 497.95 522.21 Colombian Similar procedures are applied in accounting for the purchases pesos US$:COP 2,248.70 1,967.83 2,018.00 2,075.16 of interests in associates.
Any goodwill arising on such purchases Euros EUR:US$ 1.3974 1.4712 1.4590 1.3708 is included within the carrying amount of the investment in the Great Britain associates, but not thereafter amortised.
Any excess of the Groups pounds share of the net fair value of the associates identifiable assets, GBP:US$ 1.4628 1.8525 1.9849 2.0020 liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of the investment Peruvian nuevo is included in income in the period of the purchase.
sol US$:PEN 3.1345 2.9237 2.9980 3.1285 South African Foreign currencies rand US$:ZAR 9.3212 8.2695 6.8626 7.0506 Financial statements of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, are Swiss francs maintained in their functional currencies and converted to US dollars US$:CHF 1.0695 1.0824 1.1335 1.2000 for consolidation of the Group results.
The functional currency of each entity is determined after consideration of the primary economic Revenue environment of the entity.
Revenue associated with the sale of commodities is recognised when Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the asset sold are rates ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities transferred to the customer, usually when insurance risk has passed to denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at year-end the customer and the commodity has been delivered to the shipping exchange rates.
All differences that arise are recorded in the income agent.
At this point the Group retains neither continuing managerial statement except for differences arising on rehabilitation provisions involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership nor which are capitalised for operating mines.
Non-monetary assets effective control over the commodities and the costs incurred, or to measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using be incurred, in respect of the sale can be reliably measured.
Revenue is the exchange rates at the date of the initial transactions.
Where nonrecognised, at fair value of the consideration receivable, to the extent monetary assets are measured at fair value in a foreign currency, that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and they are translated at the exchange rates when the fair value was the revenue can be reliably measured.
Sales revenue is recognised determined.
Where the exchange difference relates to an item which at the fair value of consideration received, which in most cases is has been recorded in equity, the related exchange difference is also invoiced amounts, with most sales being priced free on board FOB, recorded in equity.
free on rail FOR or cost, insurance and freight CIF.
Revenues from the sale of by-products are also included in sales revenue.
Revenue On consolidation of foreign operations into US dollars, income excludes treatment and refining charges unless payment of these statement items are translated at weighted average rates of exchange amounts can be enforced by the Group at the time of the sale.
where this is a reasonable approximation of the exchange rate at the dates of the transactions.
Balance sheet items are translated at closing exchange rates.
Exchange differences on the re-translation of the investments in foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates at closing rates, together with differences between income statements translated at average and at closing rates, are recorded in a separate Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 119 Notes to the Financial Statements continued The expected useful lives are as follows: 6.
Principal Accounting Policies continued Buildings 15 40 years For some commodities the sales price is determined provisionally at Plant and equipment 4 30 years the date of sale, with the final price determined at a mutually agreed date, generally at a quoted market price at that time.
This contractual The net carrying amounts of land, buildings, plant and equipment are feature has the character of a commodity derivative.
As a result, the reviewed for impairment either individually or at the cash-generating invoice price on these sales are marked-to-market at balance sheet unit level when events and changes in circumstances indicate that the date based on the forward metal prices for the relevant quotational carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
To the extent that these period.
This ensures that revenue is recorded at the fair value of values exceed their recoverable amounts, that excess is fully provided consideration to be received.
All mark-to-market adjustments are against in the financial year in which this is determined.
Expenditure on major maintenance or repairs includes the cost of Interest income the replacement of parts of assets and overhaul costs.
Where an asset Interest income is recognised as earned on an accruals basis using or part of an asset is replaced and it is probable that future economic the effective interest method in the income statement.
benefits associated with the item will be available to the Group, the expenditure is capitalised and the carrying amount of the item Exceptional items replaced derecognised.
Similarly, overhaul costs associated with major Exceptional items represent significant items of income and expense maintenance are capitalised and depreciated over their useful lives which due to their nature or the expected infrequency of the events where it is probable that future economic benefits will be available giving rise to them, are presented separately on the face of the income and any remaining carrying amounts of the cost of previous overhauls statement to give a better understanding to shareholders of the are derecognised.
All other costs are expensed as incurred.
elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to better assess trends in financial Where an item of property, plant and equipment is disposed of, it performance.
Exceptional items include, but are not limited to, is derecognised and the difference between its carrying value and impairments, acquisition and integration costs which have not been net sales proceeds is disclosed as a profit or loss on disposal in the capitalised, profits and losses on the sale of investments, profits and income statement.
losses from the sale of operations, recycled gains and losses from the Any items of property, plant or equipment that cease to have future foreign currency translation reserve, foreign currency gains and losses economic benefits are derecognised with any gain or loss included on borrowings, restructuring and closure costs, loan issue costs written in the income statement in the financial year in which the item off on facility refinancing and the related tax impacts of these items.
Property, plant and equipment Exploration and Evaluation Expenditure Land and Buildings, Plant and Equipment Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred on the On initial acquisition, land and buildings, plant and equipment are exploration and evaluation of potential mineral reserves and resources valued at cost, being the purchase price and the directly attributable and includes costs such as exploratory drilling and sample testing costs of acquisition or construction required to bring the asset to the and the costs of pre-feasibility studies.
Exploration and evaluation location and condition necessary for the asset to be capable of expenditure for each area of interest, other than that acquired from operating in the manner intended by management.
the purchase of another mining company, is carried forward as an In subsequent periods, buildings, plant and equipment are stated asset provided that one of the following conditions is met: at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value, such costs are expected to be recouped in full through successful whilst land is stated at cost less any impairment in value and is development and exploration of the area of interest or not depreciated.
alternatively, by its sale: or Depreciation is provided so as to write off the cost, less estimated exploration and evaluation activities in the area of interest have residual values of buildings, plant and equipment based on prices not yet reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of prevailing at the balance sheet date on the following bases: the existence or otherwise of economically recoverable reserves, Mine production assets are depreciated using a unit of production and active and significant operations in relation to the area are method based on estimated economically recoverable reserves, continuing, or planned for the future.
which results in a depreciation charge proportional to the depletion Purchased exploration and evaluation assets are recognised as assets of reserves.
Buildings, plant and equipment unrelated to production at their cost of acquisition or at fair value if purchased as part of a are depreciated using the straight-line method based on estimated business combination.
An impairment review is performed, either individually or at the cashWhere parts of an asset have different useful lives, depreciation is generating unit level, when there are indicators that the carrying calculated on each separate part.
Each asset or parts estimated useful amount of the assets may exceed their recoverable amounts.
To the life has due regard to both its own physical life limitations and the extent that this occurs, the excess is fully provided against, in the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine financial year in which this is determined.
Exploration and evaluation property at which the item is located, and to possible future variations assets are reassessed on a regular basis and these costs are carried in those assessments.
Estimates of remaining useful lives and residual forward provided that at least one of the conditions outlined above values are reviewed annually.
Changes in estimates are accounted is met.
Expenditure is transferred to mine development assets or capital work in progress once the work completed to date supports the future development of the property and such development receives appropriate approvals.
120 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 Mineral properties and mine development expenditure Deferred stripping costs The cost of acquiring mineral reserves and mineral resources is In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden capitalised on the balance sheet as incurred.
Capitalised costs and other waste in order to access the ore body.
During the predevelopment expenditure include costs associated with a startproduction phase, these costs are capitalised as part of the cost of up period where the asset is available for use but incapable of the mine property and depreciated based on the mines strip ratio operating at normal levels without a commissioning period.
Mineral reserves and capitalised mine development expenditure are, The costs of removal of the waste material during a mines production upon commencement of production, depreciated using a unit of phase are deferred, where they give rise to future benefits.
The production method based on the estimated economically recoverable deferral of these costs, and subsequent charges to the income reserves to which they relate or are written off if the property is statement are determined with reference to the mines strip ratio.
The net carrying amounts of mineral reserves and resources The mines strip ratio represents the ratio of the estimated total and capitalised mine development expenditure at each mine property volume of waste, to the estimated total quantity of economically are reviewed for impairment either individually or at the cash-generating recoverable ore, over the life of the mine.
These costs are deferred unit level when events and changes in circumstances indicate that the where the actual stripping ratios are higher than the average life of carrying amount may not be recoverable.
To the extent that these values mine strip ratio.
The costs charged to the income statement are based exceed their recoverable amounts, that excess is fully provided against on application of the mines strip ratio to the quantity of ore mined in in the financial year in which this is determined.
Where the ore is expected to be evenly distributed, waste Capital work in progress removal is expensed as incurred.
Assets in the course of construction are capitalised in the capital work in Biological assets progress account.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred Biological assets, being cattle, are carried at their fair value less to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment.
Any changes in fair value less estimated The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase selling costs are included in the income statement in the period price and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working in which they arise.
condition for its intended use.
Intangible assets Costs associated with a start-up period are capitalised where the asset Purchased intangible assets are recorded at the cost of acquisition is available for use but incapable of operating at normal levels without including expenses incidental to the acquisition, less accumulated a commissioning period.
amortisation and any impairment in value.
Capital work in progress is not depreciated Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are The net carrying amounts of capital work in progress at each mine capitalised separately from goodwill if the asset is separable or arises property are reviewed for impairment either individually or at the from contractual or legal rights and the fair value can be measured cash-generating unit level when events and changes in circumstances reliably on initial recognition.
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
To the Internally Generated Goodwill is not Recognised.
extent that these values exceed their recoverable amounts, that Intangible assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives, except excess is fully provided against in the financial year in which this goodwill and those intangible assets which the directors regard as is determined.
having indefinite useful lives, which are not amortised but are reviewed Leasing and hire purchase commitments for impairment at least annually, and whenever events or circumstances The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Intangible lease is based in the substance of the arrangement at inception date, assets are regarded as having an indefinite life when, based on an including whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent analysis of all the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to the on the use of a specific asset or assets or whether the arrangement period over which the asset is expected to generate net cash flows.
Such conveys a right to use the asset.
A reassessment after inception is analyses are performed annually.
Estimated useful lives are determined only made in specific circumstances.
as the period over which the Group expects to use the asset or the number of production or similar units expected to be obtained from Assets held under finance leases, where substantially all the risks and the asset by the Group and for which the Group retains control of rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, and hire access to those benefits.
purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet at the lower of the fair value of the leased property or the present value of the For intangible assets with a finite useful life, the amortisation minimum lease payments during the lease term calculated using method and period are reviewed annually and impairment testing the interest rate implicit in the lease agreement.
These amounts is undertaken when circumstances indicate the carrying amount may are determined at the inception of the lease and are depreciated over not be recoverable.
the shorter of their estimated useful lives or lease term.
The capital Where an intangible asset is disposed of, it is derecognised and the elements of future obligations under leases and hire purchase difference between its carrying value and the net sales proceeds is contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
The interest reported as a profit or loss on disposal in the income statement in elements of the lease or hire purchase obligations are charged to the the financial year the disposal occurs.
income statement over the periods of the leases and hire purchase contracts and represent a constant proportion of the balance of Coal export rights capital repayments outstanding.
Coal export rights are carried at cost and amortised using a units-ofproduction method based on the reserves that exist in the location Leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have that has access to such rights.
not passed to the Group are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement Software and technology patents on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Software and technology patents are carried at cost and amortised over a period of three years and 20 years respectively.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 121 Notes to the Financial Statements continued for recognition as a completed sale within one year of the date 6.
Principal Accounting Policies continued of classification.
Hydroelectricity rights Non-current assets or disposal groups held for sale are carried at Hydroelectricity rights acquired will be amortised over the expected the lower of the carrying amount prior to being classified as held for life of the operation following the completion of construction.
sale, and the fair value less costs to sell.
A non-current asset is not depreciated while classified as held for sale.
Long-term feed contract A long-term feed contract is being amortised over the remaining A non-current asset held for sale is presented separately in the balance contract term.
The assets and liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for sale are presented separately as one line in the assets and liabilities Impairment of assets sections on the face of the balance sheet.
The carrying amounts of non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the Discontinued operations carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
If there are indicators of A discontinued operation is a component of an entity, whose impairment, a review is undertaken to determine whether the carrying operations and cash flows are clearly distinguished both operationally amounts are in excess of their recoverable amounts.
An assets and for financial reporting purposes from the rest of the entity, that recoverable amount is determined as the higher of its fair value less has been disposed of or classified as held for sale.
To be classified as costs to sell and its value-in-use.
Such reviews are undertaken on an a discontinued operation, one of the following criteria must be met: asset-by-asset basis, except where assets do not generate cash flows the operation must represent a separate major line of business independent of other assets, in which case the review is undertaken or geographical area of operations: or at the cash-generating unit level.
the operation must be part of a single coordinated plan to dispose Where a cash-generating unit, or group of cash-generating units, has of a separate major line of business or geographical area of goodwill allocated to it excluding goodwill recognised as a result of operations: or the requirement to recognise deferred tax liabilities on acquisitions, or includes intangible assets which are either not available for use or the operation must be a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a which have an indefinite useful life and which can only be tested as view for resale.
part of a cash-generating unit, an impairment test is performed at Where the operation is discontinued at the balance sheet date, the least annually or whenever there is an indication that the carrying results are presented in one line on the face of the income statement, amounts of such assets may be impaired.
and prior period results are represented as discontinued.
If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, Financial instruments an impairment loss is recorded in the income statement to reflect the Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value asset at the lower amount.
In assessing the value-in-use, the relevant through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing use of such investments or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
assets and from their disposal are discounted to their present value The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial using a market-determined pre-tax discount rate which reflects current recognition.
Where as a result of a change in intention or ability, it is market assessments of the time value of money and asset-specific risks no longer appropriate to classify an investment as held to maturity, for which the cash flow estimates have not been adjusted.
Fair value the investment is reclassified into the available-for-sale category.
less costs to sell is determined as the amount that would be obtained When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at from the sale of the asset in an arms-length transaction between fair value on the trade date, plus, in the case of investments not at knowledgeable and willing parties.
For mining assets this would fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction generally be determined based on the present value of the estimated costs.
All financial liabilities are initially recognised at their fair value.
future cash flows arising from the continued use and eventual disposal Subsequently, all financial liabilities with the exception of derivatives of the asset.
In assessing these cash flows and discounting them are carried at amortised cost.
to present value, assumptions used are those that an independent market participant would consider appropriate.
The Group considers whether a contract contains an embedded derivative when the Group becomes a party to the contract.
An impairment loss is reversed in the income statement if there is a Embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract if it is not change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount measured at fair value through profit and loss and when the economic since the prior impairment loss was recognised.
The carrying amount characteristics and risks are not closely related to the host contract.
is increased to the recoverable amount but not beyond the carrying amount net of depreciation or amortisation which would have arisen Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss if the prior impairment loss had not been recognised.
After such Financial assets classified as held for trading are included in the a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to category financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
Goodwill impairments purpose of selling in the near term.
Derivatives are also classified are not reversed.
as held for trading unless they are designated as and are effective hedging instruments.
Gains or losses on these items are recognised Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations in income.
Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale Held-to-maturity Investments if their carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale transaction Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met and fixed maturity are classified as held-to-maturity when the Group only when the sale is highly probable and the assets or disposal groups has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
Investments are available for immediate sale in their present condition.
The Group intended to be held for an undefined period are not included in this must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify classification.
Other long-term investments that are intended to be held-to-maturity, such as bonds, are measured at amortised cost.
122 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 This cost is computed as the amount initially recognised minus principal Where the Group has transferred its right to receive cash flows repayments, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation using the from an asset and has neither transferred nor retained substantially effective interest method of any difference between the initially all the risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the recognised amount and the maturity amount.
This calculation includes asset, it continues to recognise the financial asset to the extent of all fees paid or received between parties to the contract that are an its continuing involvement in the asset.
integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and all other Financial liabilities premiums and discounts.
For investments carried at amortised cost, A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under gains and losses are recognised in income when the investments are the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Gains and losses on derecognition are recognised within finance Loans and receivables income and finance costs respectively.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
Such assets are an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried Impairment of financial assets at their original invoiced value, adjusted for, where appropriate, The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial provisional pricing or their recoverable amount if this differs from asset is impaired.
Where the time value of money is material, receivables are discounted and are carried at their present value.
Financial assets carried at amortised cost A provision is made where the estimated recoverable amount is If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and lower than the carrying amount.
receivables and held-to-maturity investments carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the Available-for-sale financial assets difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that assets that are designated as available-for-sale or are not classified have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original in any of the other three stated categories.
After initial recognition, effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with gains recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced and the or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
Objective investment is derecognised or until the investment is determined to be evidence of impairment of loans and receivables exists if the counterimpaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported party is experiencing significant financial difficulty, there is a breach of in equity is included in the income statement.
contract, concessions are granted to the counterparty that would not Listed share investments are carried at fair value based on stock normally be granted or it is probable that the counterparty will enter exchange quoted prices at the balance sheet date.
Unlisted shares into bankruptcy or a financial reorganisation.
are carried at fair value where it can be reliably obtained, otherwise If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss they are stated at cost less any impairment.
decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event Fair Values occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously The fair value of quoted financial assets is determined by reference recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an to bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the extent Where there is no active market, fair value is determined using that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost valuation techniques.
These include recent arms-length market at the reversal date.
transactions: reference to current market value of another instrument Assets carried at cost which is substantially the same: discounted cash flow analysis and If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on an unquoted pricing models.
equity instrument that is not carried at fair value because its fair value Derivative financial instruments are valued using applicable valuation cannot be reliably measured, the amount of the loss is measured as techniques such as those outlined above.
the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities rate of return for a similar financial asset.
Financial assets A financial asset is derecognised when: Available-for-sale financial assets If an available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, an amount the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, payment and amortisation and its current fair value, less any but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material impairment loss previously recognised in profit or loss, is transferred delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: or from equity to the income statement.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in profit.
the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments are reversed the asset and either has transferred substantially all the risks and through profit or loss, if the increase in fair value of the instrument rewards of the asset, or has neither transferred nor retained can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has loss was recognised in profit or loss.
transferred control of the asset.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 123 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Amortisation begins when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted 6.
Principal Accounting Policies continued for changes in its fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
Rehabilitation trust fund The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging Investments in the rehabilitation trust funds are measured at fair instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no value based on the market price of investments held by the trust.
In longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the Group revokes accordance with IFRIC 5, movements in the fair value are recognised the designation.
Such amounts relate to trusts in South Africa Cash flow hedges which receive cash contributions to accumulate funds for the Groups Cash flow hedges are a hedge of the exposure to variability in rehabilitation liabilities relating to the eventual closure of the Groups cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a coal operations.
recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction Derivative financial instruments and hedging that could affect profit or loss.
The effective portion of the gain or loss The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the rate swaps, forward currency and commodity contracts to hedge its ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss.
risks associated with interest rate, foreign currency and commodity Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement price fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss.
Where the hedged recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the nonDerivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive financial asset or liability.
and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives previously recognised in equity are transferred to profit or loss.
If the that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to profit hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without or loss for the year.
replacement or roll-over, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, The fair value of forward currency and commodity contracts is amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates and prices forecast transaction occurs.
If the related transaction is not expected for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest to occur, the amount is taken to profit or loss.
rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for Hedges of a Net Investment similar instruments.
Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, including a hedge For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: of a monetary item that is accounted for as part of the net investment, are accounted for in a way similar to cash flow hedges.
Gains or losses fair value hedges: on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the cash flow hedges: or hedge are recognised directly in equity while any gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised in profit or loss.
hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of any At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally such gains or losses recognised directly in equity is transferred to designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the profit or loss.
Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management Own shares objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The documentation The cost of purchases of own shares held by the Employee Share includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or Ownership Plan ESOP trust are deducted from equity.
Where they transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity are issued to employees or sold, no gain or loss is recognised in the will assess the hedging instruments effectiveness in offsetting the income statement.
Any proceeds received on disposal of the shares exposure to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash flows or transfer to employees are recognised in equity.
attributable to the hedged risk.
Hedges that are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and Own shares purchased under the Equity Capital Management Program are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they actually have ECMP are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in the been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of such which they were designated.
Such gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
Hedges which meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are Interest-bearing loans and borrowings accounted for as follows: Loans are recognised at inception at the fair value of proceeds received, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequently, Fair value hedges they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest Fair value hedges are hedges of the Groups exposure to changes in method.
Finance costs are recognised in the income statement the fair value of a recognised asset or liability that could affect profit using the effective interest method.
The carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted for gains and losses attributable to the risk being hedged, the derivative is reConvertible borrowings measured at fair value and gains and losses from both are taken to On issue of a convertible borrowing, the fair value of the liability profit or loss.
component is determined by discounting the contractual future cash flows using a market rate for a non-convertible instrument with similar For fair value hedges relating to items carried at amortised cost, terms.
This value is carried as a liability on the amortised cost basis the adjustment to carrying value is amortised through profit or loss until extinguished on conversion or redemption.
The remainder of the over the remaining term to maturity.
Any adjustment to the carrying proceeds are allocated to a separate component of equity, net of issue amount of a hedged financial instrument for which the effective costs, which remains constant in subsequent periods.
Issue costs are interest method is used is amortised to profit or loss.
apportioned between the liability and equity components based on their respective carrying amounts when the instrument was issued.
124 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 On conversion, the liability is reclassified to equity and no gain or loss 6.
Principal Accounting Policies continued is recognised in the profit or loss.
Where the convertible borrowing is redeemed early or repurchased in a way that does not alter the changes in the provision resulting from changes in the estimated original conversion privileges, the consideration paid is allocated to cash flows or discount rate and the adjusted cost of the asset is the liability and equity components.
The consideration relating to the depreciated prospectively.
equity component is recognised in equity and the amount of gain Rehabilitation trust funds holding monies committed for use in or loss relating to the liability element in profit or loss.
satisfying environmental obligations are included within Other The finance costs recognised in respect of the convertible borrowings financial assets on the balance sheet.
includes the accretion of the liability component to the amount that Employee entitlements will be payable on redemption.
Provisions are recognised for short-term employee entitlements, on an Inventories undiscounted basis, for services rendered by employees that remain Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable unpaid at the balance sheet date.
Cost is determined on a weighted average basis or using a Provisions for long-term employee entitlements are measured using first-in-first-out basis and includes all costs incurred in the normal the projected unit credit method and discounted at an interest rate course of business including direct material and direct labour costs and equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate an allocation of production overheads, depreciation and amortisation bond of equivalent currency and term to the liabilities.
and other costs, based on normal production capacity, incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition.
Cost of In some of the Groups Australian operations, long service leave inventories includes the transfers from equity of gains and losses on an employee entitlement for which a provision is recorded is qualifying cash flow hedges in respect of the purchase of materials.
administered by an independent fund.
The fund collects levies from Inventories are categorised as follows: employers throughout the industry based on the expected cost of future liabilities.
When the Group makes long service leave payments to Raw materials and consumables: materials, goods or supplies employees covered by the fund, it is reimbursed for the majority of the including energy sources to be either directly or indirectly payment.
To reflect the expected reimbursement for future long service consumed in the production process: leave payments from the fund, a receivable is recorded based on the Work in progress: items stored in an intermediate state that present value of the future amounts expected to be reimbursed.
have not yet passed through all the stages of production: and Other provisions Finished goods: products and materials that have passed all stages Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation of the production process.
legal or constructive, as a result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow of resources that can be reliably estimated will be required Net realisable value represents estimated selling price in the ordinary to settle the obligation.
Where the effect is material, the provision is course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to discounted to net present value using an appropriate current marketcompletion and disposal.
based pre-tax discount rate and the unwinding of the discount is Cash and cash equivalents included in finance costs.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash in hand and Taxation short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Current Tax For the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents include certain Current tax for each taxable entity in the Group is based on the local bank overdrafts where the facility forms part of the working capital taxable income at the local statutory tax rate enacted or substantively cash management activities.
enacted at the balance sheet date and includes adjustments to tax Government grants payable or recoverable in respect of previous periods.
Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable Deferred Tax assurance that the grant will be received and all the attaching Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet method in respect conditions will be complied with.
Government grants in respect of of all temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and capital expenditure are credited to the carrying amount of the related liabilities, and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, asset and are released to the income statement over the expected except as indicated below: useful lives of the relevant assets.
Grants which are not associated with an asset are credited to income so as to match them with the Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary expense to which they relate.
differences, except: Environmental protection, rehabilitation and closure costs where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial Provision is made for close down, restoration and for environmental recognition of goodwill, or the initial recognition of an asset or rehabilitation costs which include the dismantling and demolition liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit of disturbed areas in the financial period when the related nor taxable profit or loss: and environmental disturbance occurs, based on the estimated future in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with costs using information available at the balance sheet date.
The investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint provision is discounted using a current market-based pre-tax discount ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary rate and the unwinding of the discount is included in interest expense.
differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
capitalised, where it gives rise to a future benefit, and depreciated over future production from the operations to which it relates.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to The provision is reviewed on an annual basis for changes to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against obligations, legislation or discount rates that impact estimated costs or lives of operations.
The cost of the related asset is adjusted for Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 125 Notes to the Financial Statements continued which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry-forward The service cost of providing pension benefits to employees for the of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: year is determined using the projected unit method and is recognised in the income statement.
The difference between the expected return where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible on plan assets and the unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities is temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset recognised in the income statement.
or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit Actuarial gains or losses are recognised directly in equity through nor taxable profit or loss: and the statement of recognised income and expenses.
The full pension surplus or deficit is recorded in the balance sheet, with the exception in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with of the impact of any recognition of past service costs.
Surpluses investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint recorded are restricted to the sum of any unrecognised past service ventures, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent costs and present value of any amounts the Group expects to recover that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in by way of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions.
the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The Group also provides post-retirement healthcare benefits to certain employees in Canada, the Dominican Republic, South Africa and the The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at United States.
These are accounted for in a similar manner to the each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer defined benefit pension plans.
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
To the extent that Ordinary share capital an asset not previously recognised fulfils the criteria for recognition, Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the net a deferred income tax asset is recorded.
proceeds received, which is the fair value of the consideration received less costs that are incurred in connection with the share issue.
The Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates nominal par value of the shares issued is taken to the share capital that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised account and any excess is recorded in the share premium account, or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws enacted or including the costs that were incurred with the share issue.
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Share-based compensation plans Current and deferred tax relating to items recognised directly in The Group makes share-based awards, including free shares and equity are recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Mining taxes and royalties are treated and disclosed as current and Equity-settled awards deferred taxes if they have the characteristics of an income tax.
For equity-settled awards, the fair value is charged to the income Pensions and other post-retirement obligations statement and credited to retained earnings, on a straight-line basis The Groups contributions to defined contribution pension plans are over the vesting period, after adjusting for the estimated number of charged to the income statement in the year to which they relate.
awards that are expected to vest taking into account the achievement of non-market-based performance conditions.
The fair value of the The Group contributes to separately administered defined benefit equity-settled awards is determined at the date of the grant.
calculating fair value, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, For defined benefit funds, plan assets are measured at fair value, while other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company plan liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected market conditions.
The fair value is determined by external experts unit credit method and discounted at an interest rate equivalent to the using option pricing models.
At each balance sheet date prior to current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent vesting, the cumulative expense representing the extent to which currency and term to the plan liabilities.
The expected return on plan the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year the awards that are ultimately expected to vest is computed after of long-term market returns on scheme assets, adjusted for the effect adjusting for non-market performance conditions.
The movement on the fair value of plan assets of contributions received and benefits in cumulative expense is recognised in the income statement with paid during the year.
In measuring its defined benefit liability past a corresponding entry within equity.
service costs are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, the period until the benefits become vested.
To the extent that the except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market benefits vest immediately following the introduction of, or changes condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether to, a defined benefit plan, the past service costs are recognised or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other immediately.
When a settlement eliminating all obligations for part performance conditions are satisfied.
or all of the benefits that have already accrued or a curtailment reducing future obligations as a result of material reduction in the Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a scheme membership or a reduction in future entitlement occurs, minimum an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been the obligation and related plan assets are remeasured using current modified over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or loss is recognised recognised for any modification, which increases the total fair value in the income statement during the period in which the settlement of the share-based payment arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial or curtailment occurs.
to the employee as measured at the date of modification, over the remainder of the new vesting period.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the awards at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled 126 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it Borrowing costs is granted, the new awards are treated as if they are a modification Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised and Cash-settled awards amortised over the useful life of the asset.
Borrowing costs related For cash-settled awards, the fair value is recalculated at each balance to the establishment of a loan facility are capitalised and amortised date until the awards are settled based on the estimated number over the life of the facility.
Other borrowing costs are recognised as of awards that are expected to vest adjusting for market and nonan expense in the financial period incurred.
During the vesting period, a liability is recognised representing the portion of the vesting period Comparatives which has expired at the balance sheet date times the fair value of the Where applicable, comparatives have been adjusted to disclose them awards at that date.
After vesting, the full fair value of the unsettled on the same basis as current period figures.
awards at each balance date is recognised as a liability.
Movements in the liability are recognised in the income statement.
The fair value is recalculated using an option pricing model refer to note 35.
Acquisitions Business combinations Current Year Business Combinations Jubilee Mines NL On 29 October 2007, the Group made an AUD23 per share cash offer for shares in Jubilee Mines NL Jubilee.
On 31 January 2008, the Group declared the offer free from all conditions, and obtained control of Jubilee, following the receipt of acceptances in respect of 62% of Jubilees share capital.
By 16 February 2008, the Group held 97% of Jubilee and obtained the remaining 3% by 31 March 2008.
Under IFRS 3, the acquisition has been accounted for as one transaction occurring on 31 January 2008.
The total cost of the acquisition was US$2,875 million.
Jubilee, which was previously listed on the Australian stock exchange, owns and operates the Cosmos Nickel operation and is developing the Sinclair Nickel Project in Western Australia.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Jubilee acquired were: IFRS Fair carrying value Fair value US$m value adjustments at acquisition Property, plant and equipment 218 2,560 2,778 Available-for-sale financial assets 8 8 Prepayments 1 1 Inventories 8 8 Income taxes receivable 2 2 Trade and other receivables 15 15 252 2,558 2,810 Trade and other payables 44 44 Provisions 11 11 Deferred tax liabilities 39 12 51 Income tax payable 7 7 Net assets 158 2,539 2,697 Goodwill arising on acquisition 54 54 158 2,593 2,751 Consideration: Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 124 Cash paid 2,721 Acquisition costs 154 2,751 The goodwill balance is the result of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability calculated as the difference between the tax effect of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired and their tax bases.
The Groups share of Jubilees profit from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2008 amounted to US$16 million.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 127 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 7.
Acquisitions continued Resource Pacific Holdings Limited On 5 December 2007, the Group announced an unconditional cash offer for shares in Resource Pacific Holdings Limited Resource Pacific of AUD2.85 per share and on 8 February 2008 the offer price was increased to AUD3.20 per share.
As at 20 February 2008, the Group held 67.5% and as at 23 April 2008, the Group held 89.8% of the total issued shares of Resource Pacific.
Under IFRS 3, the acquisition has been accounted for as one transaction occurring on 20 February 2008.
The total cost of the acquisition was US$910 million.
Resource Pacific was previously listed on the Australian stock exchange and owns the Newpac underground coal mine located in the Hunter Valley coalfields of New South Wales, Australia.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Resource Pacific acquired were: IFRS Fair carrying value Fair value US$m value adjustments at acquisition Property, plant and equipment 243 979 1,222 Deferred tax assets 111 111 Other financial assets 11 11 Prepayments 1 1 Inventories 4 4 Trade and other receivables 12 12 371 879 1,250 Trade and other payables 75 75 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 14 14 Provisions 7 196 203 Deferred tax liabilities 153 153 Net assets 275 530 805 Minority interests 29 51 80 Net attributable assets 246 479 725 Goodwill arising on acquisition 178 178 246 657 903 Consideration: Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 7 Cash paid 903 Acquisition costs 7 903 The goodwill balance is the result of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability calculated as the difference between the tax effect of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired and their tax bases.
The Groups share of Resource Pacific profit from the date of acquisition amounted to US$41 million.
Douglas Tavistock Joint Venture In March 2008, the Group restructured its Douglas Tavistock Joint Venture DTJV with BHP Billiton Energy Coal South Africa BECSA.
Under the terms of the restructuring, the Group acquired and manages the mining of reserves approximately equivalent to its 16% share of the DTJV, in an area contiguous to its 100%-owned Arthur Taylor Colliery Open-cast Mine ATCOM operations.
The Group acquired approximately 16% of the major mobile equipment and will commence separate mining operations from 1 July 2009.
The Group also entered into an interim coal off-take arrangement export and Eskom for 18 months with BECSA, effective from 1 January 2008 and a long-term supply arrangement for its share of the former DTJVs Duhva LT Eskom Coal Supply Agreement.
The Group will receive a final consideration payment of US$43 million on 1 July 2009.
128 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 Under IFRS this restructure has been accounted for in the period by recognising the net assets obtained at fair value and derecognising the Groups interest in the DTJV.
This has resulted in a gain of US$213 million, calculated as follows: Fair value US$m at acquisition Fair value of net assets obtained Intangible assets 62 Property, plant and equipment 260 Trade and other receivables 78 400 Other financial liabilities 42 Deferred tax liabilities 72 Net assets obtained 286 Book value of net assets derecognised Property, plant and equipment 92 Inventories 2 Trade and other receivables 4 Trade and other payables 17 Provisions 8 Net assets derecognised 73 Gain on transaction 213 If the above combinations had taken place at the beginning of 2008, the Groups results would have been: US$m 2008 Revenue 27,977 Profit before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation 9,412 Profit before interest and taxation 6,035 Profit for the year 3,852 Prior year business combinations Frieda River In January 2007, the Group exercised an option to obtain a 73.7% interest in the Frieda River copper-gold porphyry in Papua New Guinea for US$14 million.
Tampakan Following an announcement in late 2006, in March 2007 the Group completed the exercise of its option to acquire a 62.5% interest in Sagittarius Mines Inc SMI for US$47 million.
SMI is the holder of Tampakan copper-gold project.
The Group now has management control of the Tampakan project.
Narama In August 2007, the Group acquired the remaining 50% interest in the Narama thermal coal mine in Australia from Iluka Resources Limited Iluka for US$58 million.
Cumnock Coal Limited In September 2007, the Group acquired the 16% of Cumnock Coal Limited which it previously did not own for US$22 million.
Cumnock Coal Limited is a coal mining company, which was listed on the Australian Stock Exchange.
Austral Coal Limited In October 2007, the Group acquired 85.85% of Austral Coal Limited Austral and obtained control of the company.
By 21 December 2007, the Group had acquired the remaining 14.15% of the company.
The total cost of these purchases was US$542 million.
Austral owns the Tahmoor underground coking coal operation in the southern coalfields of New South Wales, Australia.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 129 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 7.
Acquisitions continued The acquisition accounting was provisional at 31 December 2007 due to the timing and complexity of the acquisition.
In 2008, the acquisition accounting was finalised as follows: Provisional fair value as previously Fair value Fair value a US$m reported adjustments at acquisition Property, plant and equipment 729 49 680 Prepayments 6 6 Inventories 14 14 Trade and other receivables 18 18 767 49 718 Trade and other payables 24 24 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 167 167 Provisions 39 4 43 Deferred tax liabilities 165 91 74 Net assets 372 38 410 b Goodwill arising on acquisition 169 38 131 541 541 Consideration: Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 1 1 Cash paid 512 512 Contingent consideration 30 30 541 541 a These adjustments arose due to the revisions to the valuations of property, plant and equipment, the recognition of tax losses and the resulting impact on minority interests.
b The goodwill balance is a result of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability calculated as the difference between the tax effect of the fair value of the assets and liabilities and their tax bases.
The Groups share of Australs loss from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2007 amounted to US$4 million.
Mangoola In October 2007, the Group acquired the Mangoola formerly Anvil Hill coal project from Centennial Coal Company Limited for US$468 million.
The Mangoola coal project is located in the Upper Hunter Valley, Australia.
The acquisition accounting was provisional at 31 December 2007 due to the timing of the acquisition.
In 2008, the acquisition accounting was finalised as follows: Provisional fair value as previously Fair value Fair value a US$m reported adjustments at acquisition Property, plant and equipment 502 15 517 Deferred tax assets 14 6 20 516 21 537 Provisions 48 21 69 Net assets 468 468 Consideration: Cash paid 445 445 Contingent consideration 23 23 468 468 a These adjustments arose due to the revisions to the valuations of property, plant and equipment and provisions.
The Groups share of Mangoolas profit from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2007 amounted to US$nil.
130 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 Eland Platinum Holdings Limited In November 2007, the Group acquired 100% of Eland Platinum Holdings Limited Eland.
Eland was previously listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and holds an indirect 65% interest in the Elandsfontein platinum project.
The Group also acquired an additional 9% interest in the Elandsfontein platinum project increasing the Groups interest in the project to 74%.
In addition to the Elandsfontein platinum project, Eland has controlling interests in Madibeng Platinum Pty Ltd and Beestkraal Platinum Mines Pty Ltd.
These companies own the rights to other platinum resources in South Africa.
The total cost of the acquisition was US$1,113 million.
The acquisition accounting was provisional at 31 December 2007 due to the complexity and timing of the acquisition.
In 2008, the acquisition accounting was finalised as follows: Provisional fair value as previously Fair value Fair value a US$m reported adjustments at acquisition Property, plant and equipment 1,556 41 1,515 Inventories 16 16 Trade and other receivables 4 4 1,576 41 1,535 Trade and other payables 13 13 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 86 86 Provisions 5 5 Deferred tax liabilities 400 12 388 Income taxes payable 1 1 Net assets 1,071 29 1,042 Minority interests 406 44 362 Net attributable assets 665 15 680 b Goodwill arising on acquisition 398 15 383 1,063 1,063 Consideration: Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 50 50 Cash paid 1,113 1,113 1,063 1,063 a These adjustments arose due to the revisions to the valuations of property, plant and equipment.
The Groups share of Elands loss from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2007 amounted to US$4 million.
If the above combinations had taken place at the beginning of 2007, the Groups results would have been: US$m 2007 Revenue 29,256 Profit before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation 11,314 Profit before interest and taxation 9,141 Profit for the year 5,866 Investment in associates Current year investment in associates Lonmin plc In August 2008, the Group acquired 16,706,481 common shares of Lonmin plc Lonmin representing 10.7% of the common shares for consideration of US$1,084 million or GBP33 per share.
In October 2008, the Group acquired a further 22,232,940 common shares representing 14.2% of the common shares of Lonmin for a consideration of US$794 million or GBP20 per share, increasing the Groups holding to 24.9% at a cost of US$1,878 million.
This investment has been treated as an associate following the increase of the Groups holding in Lonmin to 24.9% refer to note 20.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 131 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 7.
Acquisitions continued Consolidated information The below information provides aggregate amounts of acquired assets and liabilities for all business combinations in 2008 and 2007: US$m 2008 2007 Intangible assets 62 Property, plant and equipment 4,260 2,922 Inventories 12 30 Trade and other receivables 105 38 Investments in associates Available-for-sale financial assets 8 Other financial assets 11 Deferred tax assets 6 Prepayments 2 6 4,460 3,002 Trade and other payables 119 46 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 14 301 Derivative financial liabilities 42 Provisions 214 117 Deferred tax liabilities 276 469 Income tax payable 7 1 Net assets 3,788 2,068 Minority interests 80 385 Net attributable assets 3,708 1,683 Goodwill 232 536 Net attributable assets including goodwill 3,940 2,219 Consideration: Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 131 52 Acquisition costs 161 3 Cash paid 3,624 2,179 Gain on restructure of DTJV 213 Net assets derecognised 73 Contingent consideration 89 3,940 2,219 132 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 8.
Discontinued Operations and Disposals Current year disposals Resource Pacific Holdings Limited Following the acquisition of 89.8% of Resource Pacific in February 2008, 12% of the shares were sold in October 2008 at cost for US$122 million refer to note 7.
Douglas Tavistock Joint Venture In March 2008, the Group restructured its Douglas Tavistock Joint Venture DTJV with BHP Billiton Energy Coal South Africa BECSA resulting in the disposal of the Groups interest in the joint venture refer to note 7.
Prior year disposals Aluminium The Aluminium business was sold on 18 May 2007 to Apollo Management LP.
The disposal proceeds amounted to US$1,150 million before disposal costs of US$24 million, resulting in the Group realising a gain of US$1 million after tax of US$12 million.
The results of the Aluminium business for the periods ended are presented below: US$m 2007 Revenue 542 Cost of sales before depreciation and amortisation 406 Distribution costs 9 Administrative expenses 7 Profit before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation 120 Depreciation and amortisation cost of sales 31 Profit before interest and taxation 89 Finance income 2 Finance costs 2 Profit before taxation 89 Income tax expense 37 Profit for the period from discontinued operation 52 Gain on disposal of the discontinued operation 1 Profit after tax for the period from discontinued operations 53 The carrying value of the major classes of assets and liabilities at the date of the sale were: US$m at 18.05.07 Intangible assets 139 Property, plant and equipment 1,011 Inventories 215 Trade and other receivables 176 Other financial assets 31 Trade and other payables 92 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1 Provisions 37 Pension deficit 19 Deferred tax liabilities 298 Income tax payable 6 Net assets 1,119 Cash inflow on disposal: Cash disposed of with the subsidiary 6 Cash received 1,150 Disposal costs 24 Net cash inflow 1,120 Gain on disposal of the discontinued operation 1 Earnings per share from discontinued operations: US$ 2007 Basic earnings per share 0.06 Diluted earnings per share 0.05 The cash flows arising from the Aluminium business unit up to the date of sale were operational in nature and were materially the same as its profits.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 133 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 8.
Discontinued Operations and Disposals continued Cumnock Coal Limited Following the acquisition of 100% of the assets of Cumnock Coal in September 2007 refer above, in December 2007, 10% of the assets were sold for US$7 million.
Consolidated information The below information is provided in aggregate for the 2008 and 2007 disposals: US$m 2008 2007 Intangible assets 139 Property, plant and equipment 92 1,018 Inventories 2 216 Trade and other receivables 4 176 Financial assets 31 98 1,580 Trade and other payables 17 93 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1 Provisions 8 37 Pension deficit 19 Deferred tax liabilities 34 298 Income tax payable 6 Net assets 107 1,126 Minority interests 94 Net attributable assets 201 1,126 Consideration: Net cash disposed of with the subsidiary 6 Cash received 128 1,150 Disposal costs 24 Net assets obtained 286 Contingent consideration 7 Total consideration 414 1,127 Gain on disposal of discontinued operations and restructure of DTJV 213 1 9.
Segmental Analysis The Groups primary reporting format is business segments and its secondary format is geographical segments.
The operating businesses are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the products produced, with each segment representing a strategic business unit that offers different products and serves different markets.
Transfer prices between business segments are set on an arms-length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
The Groups geographical segments are determined by the location of the Groups assets and operations.
134 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 Business segments The following tables present revenue and profit information and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups business segments for the years ended 31 December 2008 and 2007.
Segmental Analysis continued Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional US$m items items 2008 items items 2007 Depreciation and amortisation Depreciation: Coal 624 624 504 504 Ferroalloys 52 52 52 52 Platinum 35 35 7 7 Copper 863 863 824 824 Nickel 475 475 405 405 Zinc Lead 331 331 293 293 Technology 6 6 4 4 Depreciation and amortisation continuing operations 2,386 2,386 2,089 2,089 Unallocated 10 10 7 7 2,396 2,396 2,096 2,096 Discontinued operations: Aluminium 31 31 Total 2,3962,396 2,127 2,127 Impairment of assets Ferroalloys 18 18 Copper 463 463 Nickel 475 475 Zinc Lead 18 18 Total impairment of assets continuing operations 974974 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional US$m items items 2008 items items 2007 Profit before interest and taxation EBIT Segment result: Coal Thermal 2,616 11 2,627 544 544 Coal Coking 930 930 143 143 Coal 3,546 11 3,557 687 687 Ferroalloys 907 18 889 330 330 Platinum 100 8 108 59 25 34 Copper 2,297 463 1,834 4,163 4,163 Nickel 341 640 299 2,172 275 2,447 Zinc Lead 104 71 33 1,517 1,517 Technology 32 32 43 43 Segment EBIT continuing operations 7,327 1,173 6,154 8,971 250 9,221 Share of results from associates net of tax, continuing operations : Coal 3 3 3 3 Platinum 34 34 Zinc Lead 9 9 12 12 EBIT continuing operations 7,339 1,207 6,132 8,986 250 9,236 Unallocated 78 78 194 194 7,261 1,207 6,054 8,792 250 9,042 Finance income 192 69 261 142 74 216 Finance expense 852 295 1,147 935 196 1,131 Profit before taxation 6,601 1,433 5,168 7,999 128 8,127 Income tax expense 1,634 330 1,304 2,301 10 2,311 Profit from continuing operations 4,967 1,103 3,864 5,698 118 5,816 Profit after tax from discontinued operations: Aluminium 52 1 53 Total 4,967 1,103 3,864 5,750 119 5,869 136 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 US$m At 31.12.08 At 31.12.07 Total assets Before deferred tax assets and investments in associates: Coal 11,950 11,293 Ferroalloys 1,420 1,449 Platinum 1,642 2,138 Copper 18,050 19,825 Nickel 12,422 9,402 Zinc Lead 6,532 7,015 Technology 124 140 Total segmental assets continuing operations 52,140 51,262 Unallocated 1,208 666 Total 53,348 51,928 Deferred tax assets: Coal 2 2 Ferroalloys 1 2 Zinc Lead 3 Total deferred tax assets continuing operations 3 7 Investment in associates: Coal 46 54 Platinum 1,788 Zinc Lead 129 132 Total investment in associates continuing operations 1,963 186 Total assets Coal 11,998 11,349 Ferroalloys 1,421 1,451 Platinum 3,430 2,138 Copper 18,050 19,825 Nickel 12,422 9,402 Zinc Lead 6,661 7,150 Technology 124 140 Total assets from continuing operations 54,106 51,455 Unallocated 1,208 666 Total assets 55,314 52,121 Includes corporate assets not directly attributable to business segments.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 137 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 9.
Segmental Analysis continued US$m At 31.12.08 At 31.12.07 Total liabilities Before tax liabilities, interest-bearing loans and borrowings: Coal 1,807 1,329 Ferroalloys 211 183 Platinum 39 20 Copper 1,989 2,438 Nickel 1,753 1,354 Zinc Lead 1,106 1,362 Technology 65 108 Total segmental liabilities continuing operations 6,970 6,794 Unallocated 1,246 589 Total 8,216 7,383 Tax liabilities, interest-bearing loans and borrowings : Coal 1,943 1,775 Ferroalloys 248 188 Platinum 274 435 Copper 1,779 3,059 Nickel 1,212 1,476 Zinc Lead 325 710 Technology 10 Total tax liabilities, interest-bearing loans and borrowings continuing operations 5,781 7,653 Unallocated 16,918 11,871 Total 22,699 19,524 Total liabilities Coal 3,750 3,104 Ferroalloys 459 371 Platinum 313 455 Copper 3,768 5,497 Nickel 2,965 2,830 Zinc Lead 1,431 2,072 Technology 65 118 Total liabilities from continuing operations 12,751 14,447 Unallocated 18,164 12,460 Total 30,915 26,907 These liabilities are included in interest-bearing loans and borrowings, convertible borrowings, deferred tax liabilities and income taxes payable line items in the balance sheet.
138 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 US$m At 31.12.08 At 31.12.07 Net assets Before deferred tax assets and liabilities, investment in associates, interest-bearing loans and borrowings: Coal 10,143 9,964 Ferroalloys 1,209 1,266 Platinum 1,603 2,118 Copper 16,061 17,387 Nickel 10,669 8,048 Zinc Lead 5,426 5,653 Technology 59 32 Total segmental net assets continuing operations 45,170 44,468 Unallocated 38 77 Total 45,132 44,545 Deferred tax assets, tax liabilities, interest-bearing loans and borrowings: Coal 1,941 1,773 Ferroalloys 247 186 Platinum 274 435 Copper 1,779 3,059 Nickel 1,212 1,476 Zinc Lead 325 707 Technology 10 Total continuing operations 5,778 7,646 Unallocated 16,918 11,871 Total 22,696 19,517 Investment in associates: Coal 46 54 Platinum 1,788 Zinc Lead 129 132 Total continuing operations 1,963 186 Net assets Coal 8,248 8,245 Ferroalloys 962 1,080 Platinum 3,117 1,683 Copper 14,282 14,328 Nickel 9,457 6,572 Zinc Lead 5,230 5,078 Technology 59 22 Net assets from continuing operations 41,355 37,008 Unallocated 16,956 11,794 Total 24,399 25,214 Includes corporate assets and liabilities not directly attributable to business segments.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 139 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 9.
Segmental Analysis continued US$m 2008 2007 Capital expenditure Sustaining: Coal 459 460 Ferroalloys 95 56 Platinum 6 Copper 557 425 Nickel 267 281 Zinc Lead 278 219 Technology 3 3 Total sustaining continuing operations 1,665 1,444 Unallocated 9 11 1,674 1,455 Discontinued operations Aluminium 12 Total 1,674 1,467 Expansionary: Coal 745 347 Ferroalloys 13 47 Platinum 108 17 Copper 558 296 Nickel 1,645 424 Zinc Lead 377 285 Technology 3 1 Total expansionary continuing operations 3,449 1,417 Discontinued operations Aluminium 1 Total 3,449 1,418 Total capital expenditure: Coal 1,204 807 Ferroalloys 108 103 Platinum 114 17 Copper 1,115 721 Nickel 1,912 705 Zinc Lead 655 504 Technology 6 4 Total from continuing operations 5,114 2,861 Unallocated 9 11 5,123 2,872 Discontinued operations Aluminium 13 Total 5,123 2,885 140 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 The average number of employees, which includes executive directors and excludes contractors, during the year was as follows: 2008 2007 Coal 9,622 9,179 Ferroalloys 8,374 7,525 Platinum 1,102 974 Copper 11,131 10,368 Nickel 4,520 4,738 Zinc Lead 5,029 4,734 Technology 162 137 Total continuing operations 39,940 37,655 Unallocated 109 103 40,049 37,758 Discontinued operations Aluminium 1,250 Total 40,049 39,008 The average number of contractors during the year was as follows: Coal 8,680 6,156 Ferroalloys 4,869 4,261 Platinum 1,398 398 Copper 9,807 8,425 Nickel 2,148 1,332 Zinc Lead 1,316 1,684 Technology 69 65 Total continuing operations 28,287 22,321 Unallocated 4 5 28,291 22,326 Discontinued operations Aluminium 178 Total 28,291 22,504 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 141 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 9.
Segmental Analysis continued Geographical segments The following tables present revenue and profit information and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups geographical segments for the years ended 31 December 2008 and 2007.
Segmental Analysis continued US$m At 31.12.08 At 31.12.07 Total assets Africa 7,850 6,330 Americas North 7,344 9,835 Americas South 17,785 18,023 Australasia 15,529 12,398 Europe 2,867 2,138 Total segmental assets continuing operations 51,375 48,724 Unallocated 3,939 3,397 Total 55,314 52,121 Total liabilities Africa 2,027 1,891 Americas North 2,670 3,623 Americas South 3,967 4,464 Australasia 3,715 3,945 Europe 372 524 Total continuing operations 12,751 14,447 Unallocated 18,164 12,460 Total 30,915 26,907 Net assets Africa 5,823 4,439 Americas North 4,674 6,212 Americas South 13,818 13,559 Australasia 11,814 8,453 Europe 2,495 1,614 Total continuing operations 38,624 34,277 Unallocated 14,225 9,063 Total 24,399 25,214 Includes corporate assets and liabilities not directly attributable to business segments.
144 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 US$m 2008 2007 Capital expenditure Sustaining: Africa 228 184 Americas North 348 371 Americas South 415 264 Australasia 600 588 Europe 74 37 Total sustaining continuing operations 1,665 1,444 Unallocated 9 11 1,674 1,455 Discontinued operations: Americas North 12 Total 1,674 1,467 Expansionary: Africa 392 221 Americas North 568 311 Americas South 460 278 Australasia 1,985 585 Europe 44 22 Total expansionary continuing operations 3,449 1,417 Discontinued operations: Americas North 1 Total 3,449 1,418 Total: Africa 620 405 Americas North 916 682 Americas South 875 542 Australasia 2,585 1,173 Europe 118 59 Total continuing operations 5,114 2,861 Unallocated 9 11 5,123 2,872 Discontinued operations: Americas North 13 Total 5,123 2,885 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 145 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 9.
Segmental Analysis continued The average number of employees, which includes executive directors and excludes contractors, during the year was as follows: 2008 2007 Africa 14,095 13,372 Americas North 7,635 7,250 Americas South 7,852 8,048 Australasia 8,301 7,462 Europe 2,057 1,523 Total continuing operations 39,940 37,655 Unallocated 109 103 40,049 37,758 Discontinued operations: Americas North 1,250 Total 40,049 39,008 The average number of contractors during the year was as follows: Africa 11,823 7,789 Americas North 1,871 1,847 Americas South 8,790 7,980 Australasia 5,516 4,465 Europe 287 240 Total continuing operations 28,287 22,321 Unallocated 4 5 28,291 22,326 Discontinued operations: Americas North 178 Total 28,291 22,504 146 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 10.
Revenue and Expenses Revenue and expenses US$m 2008 2007 Continuing operations: Revenue sales of goods 27,952 28,542 Less cost of sales after depreciation and amortisation and impairment of assets 19,347 17,582 Gross profit 8,605 10,960 Administrative expenses after depreciation and amortisation and impairment of assets 342 744 Inventory recognised as an expense 19,347 17,582 Operating lease rental expense minimum lease payments 49 27 Royalties paid 724 630 Research and development 6 6 Discontinued operations: Revenue sales of goods 542 Less cost of sales after depreciation and amortisation and impairment of assets 437 Gross profit 105 Inventory recognised as an expense 437 Operating lease rental expense minimum lease payments 1 Royalties paid 1 Depreciation and amortisation US$m 2008 2007 Continuing operations: Depreciation of owned assets 2,271 1,980 Depreciation of assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 15 14 Total depreciation from continuing operations 2,286 1,994 Amortisation of intangible assets 110 102 Total depreciation and amortisation from continuing operations 2,396 2,096 Discontinued operations: Depreciation of owned assets 31 Total depreciation 2,396 2,127 Employee costs including directors emoluments refer to the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 104 to 107 for details US$m 2008 2007 Continuing operations: Wages and salaries 2,573 2,164 Pension and other post-retirement benefit costs refer to note 35 188 154 Social security and other benefits 150 125 Share-based compensation plans refer to note 35 6 106 Employee costs from continuing operations 2,917 2,549 Discontinued operations: Wages and salaries 54 Pension and other post-retirement benefit costs refer to note 35 2 Employee costs from discontinued operations 56 Total employee costs 2,917 2,605 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 147 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 10.
Revenue and Expenses continued Auditors remuneration US$m 2008 2007 a Auditors remuneration : Group auditors UK 1 1 Group auditors overseas 11 10 12 11 Amounts paid to auditors for other work: b Group auditors c Corporate finance transactions 3 10 d Taxation 3 3 e Other 2 1 8 14 Other audit firms Internal audit 1 2 f Other 4 1 5 3 a The Group audit fee includes US$45,000 2007: US$42,000 in respect of the parent company.
b Included in other fees to auditors is US$1 million 2007: US$1 million relating to the Company and its UK subsidiaries.
c 2008 amounts relate to the 2008 acquisitions, the ongoing integration of previous acquisitions and other transactional support.
2007 amounts relate to the 2007 acquisitions, other transactional support and the ongoing integration of 2006 integrations.
d Includes corporate tax compliance and advisory services.
e Primarily relates to accounting advice and non-statutory assurance services.
f Includes tax advisory services, accounting assistance and acquisition due diligence.
The Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 91 to 97 details the Groups policy with regard to the independence and objectivity of the external and internal auditors and the provision and approval of non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
Finance income US$m 2008 2007 Continuing operations: Bank interest 65 101 Dividends 2 4 Interest other 125 37 Finance income before exceptional items from continuing operations 192 142 Foreign currency gains on bank loans 20 Recycled gains from the foreign currency translation reserve 49 74 Exceptional finance income from continuing operations 69 74 Total finance income from continuing operations 261 216 Discontinued operations: Bank interest 2 Total finance income 261 218 These amounts relate to foreign currency gains and losses on non-US$ borrowings, predominantly CAD borrowings.
148 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 Finance costs US$m 2008 2007 Continuing operations: Amortisation of loan issue costs 9 24 Convertible borrowings amortised cost charge 4 3 Discount unwinding 109 90 Finance charges payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 6 11 Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 307 394 Interest on convertible borrowings and capital market notes 393 366 Interest on minority interest loans 6 6 Interest on preference shares 15 18 Interest other 3 23 Finance cost before exceptional items from continuing operations 852 935 Foreign currency losses on bank loans 34 Recycled losses from the foreign currency translation reserve 295 102 Loan issue costs written off on facility refinancing 60 Exceptional finance cost from continuing operations 295 196 Total finance cost from continuing operations 1,147 1,131 Discontinued operations: Discount unwinding 1 Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 1 Total finance cost 1,147 1,133 These amounts relate to foreign currency gains and losses on non-US$ borrowings, predominantly CAD borrowings.
Total interest income and expense calculated using the effective interest method for financial assets and liabilities not at fair value through the profit and loss are US$190 million 2007: US$140 million and US$730 million 2007: US$819 million respectively.
Exceptional items Impairment of assets The Group completed impairment testing for all its cash-generating units at 31 December 2008 and identified that certain assets were impaired.
Ferroalloys minerals reserves were impaired by US$18 million.
The Falcondo ferronickel assets in the Dominican Republic were impaired by US$455 million, including goodwill of US$176 million, and the Sudbury nickel assets were impaired by US$20 million.
The impairment charge relating to Falcondo follows the decision to place the operation on prolonged care and maintenance.
The Kidd Creek copper operations in Canada were impaired by US$227 million following a re-evaluation of closure and rehabilitation costs.
The Altonorte and Lomas Bayas copper operations in Chile recognised impairment charges against their carrying value of property, plant and equipment assets of US$92 million and US$144 million including goodwill of US$37 million respectively.
These impairment charges have been mainly caused by weaker domestic demand for sulphuric acid and medium-term environmental capital expenditure requirements.
The Lennard Shelf zinc joint venture assets were impaired by US$18 million.
A net impairment charge of US$34 million was recorded in respect of the Groups investment in Lonmin following the changes in foreign exchange rates and commodity price outlook that have occurred since the acquisition date refer to note 15.
Inventory write downs Nickel inventory net realisable value write downs of US$93 million were recognised due to reduced prices at year end.
Liability fair value adjustment An expense of US$194 million 2007: US$25 million has been recognised due to the impact of increasing coal prices on the fair value of the liabilities to African Rainbow Minerals Limited ARM and the black economic empowerment disposal to Kagiso of an interest in the Mototolo joint venture refer note 31.
Profit on restructure of joint venture A gain of US$213 million was recognised in relation to the restructure of the Groups interest in the Douglas Tavistock Joint Venture refer to note 7.
Restructuring and closure costs Asset write downs and closure costs of US$125 million were recognised, including the closure of the Lennard Shelf zinc joint venture in Australia US$53 million, corporate office downsizing US$8 million, the suspension of operations at the Falcondo ferronickel operations in the Dominican Republic US$12 million and the closure of Craig and Thayer-Lindsley nickel mines US$52 million ahead of schedule to be replaced by the new, lower cost Nickel Rim South and Fraser Morgan mines in Canada.
Income and costs of acquisition-related activities In March 2007, the Group made a cash offer to purchase LionOre Mining International Limited LionOre, a Canadian listed nickel and gold mining company.
In May 2007, OJSC MMC Norilsk Nickel announced a higher cash offer and on 1 June 2007, the Group announced it would not increase its offer price.
LionOre terminated the support agreement for the Groups offer and made a termination payment to the Group of CAD305 million US$284 million in June 2007.
The Group incurred acquisition costs of US$9 million in relation to the offer for LionOre.
Income tax benefit The Group realised an exceptional tax benefit of US$330 million primarily as a result of the impairment of assets, restructuring and closure costs and inventory write downs.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 149 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 10.
Revenues and Expenses continued Profit on sale of operations US$m 2008 2007 Discontinued operations: Aluminium 1 1 The Aluminium business was sold on 18 May 2007 to Apollo Management LP.
The disposal proceeds amounted to US$1,150 million before disposal costs of US$24 million, realising a gain of US$1 million after tax refer to note 8.
Income Taxes Income Tax Charge Significant components of income tax expense for the years ended: US$m 2008 2007 Consolidated income statement Current tax: Based on taxable income of the current year 1,702 2,183 Prior year under over provision 29 14 Total current taxation charge for the year 1,731 2,169 Deferred taxation: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 398 276 Change in tax rates 37 91 Prior year under provision 8 6 Total deferred taxation charge for the year 427 191 Total taxation charge 1,304 2,360 Total taxation attributable to continuing operations 1,304 2,311 Income tax attributable to discontinued operations 49 Total taxation charge reported in the consolidated income statement 1,304 2,360 UK taxation included above: Current tax 3 10 Deferred tax 3 4 Total taxation charge 6 14 Recognised directly in equity Deferred tax: Available-for-sale financial assets 4 16 Cash flow hedges 25 15 Other equity classified items 102 6 Total taxation charge credit reported in equity 81 7 The amounts above include the tax charge attributable to exceptional items.
150 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to accounting profit before income tax at the weighted average statutory income tax rate to income tax expense at the Group average effective income tax rate for the years ended is as follows: US$m 2008 2007 Profit before taxation from continuing operations 5,168 8,127 Profit before taxation from discontinued operations 102 Profit before taxation 5,168 8,229 At average statutory income tax rate 25.0% 2007: 25.2% 1,292 2,075 Goodwill impairment 94 Mining and other taxes 59 214 Foreign currency gains and losses 143 156 Non-deductible expenses 88 81 Non-taxable capital gains and losses 48 53 Rebatable dividends received 1 3 Research and development allowances 20 9 Change in tax rates 37 91 Prior year under over provision 37 8 Other 5 2 At average effective income tax rate 1,304 2,360 Total taxation charge reported in consolidated income statement 1,304 2,311 Income tax attributable to discontinued operations 49 At average effective income tax rate 1,304 2,360 The above reconciling items are disclosed at the tax rates that apply in the country where they have arisen.
The average statutory income tax rate is the average of the standard income tax rates applicable in the countries in which the Group operates, weighted by the profit loss before tax of the subsidiaries in the respective countries as included in the consolidated accounts.
The change in the average statutory income tax rate is due to the variation in the weight of subsidiaries profits, by various changes in the enacted standard income tax rates and due to the acquisition of subsidiaries in countries with different tax rates.
Deferred income taxes Deferred tax assets are recognised for the carry-forward of unused tax losses and unused tax credits to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the unused tax losses credits can be utilised.
Unrecognised tax losses The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in relation to tax losses that are available indefinitely of US$14 million 2007: US$9 million to carry forward against future taxable income of the companies in which the losses arose.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these losses as they may not be used to offset taxable profits elsewhere in the Group and they have arisen in subsidiaries that have been loss-making for some time.
There are no other deductible temporary differences that have not been recognised at balance sheet date.
Temporary differences associated with Group investments At 31 December 2008, there was US$nil recognised deferred tax liability 2007: US$nil for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain of the Groups subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures as: the Group has determined that undistributed profits of its subsidiaries will not be distributed in the foreseeable future: the profits of the associates will not be distributed until they obtain the consent of the Group: and the investments are not held for resale and are expected to be recouped by continued use of these operations by the subsidiaries.
The temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised amount to US$1,497 million 2007: US$2,218 million.
There are no income tax consequences for the Group attaching to the payment of dividends by the Company to its shareholders.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 151 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 11.
Income Taxes continued The deferred tax assets liabilities included in the balance sheet is as follows: US$m 2008 2007 Tax losses 273 242 Employee provisions 74 62 Other provisions 201 460 Rehabilitation and closure 152 139 Accelerated depreciation 5,767 6,322 Coal export rights 195 260 Other intangibles 97 96 Government grants 12 14 Deferred stripping 95 77 Trade and other payables receivables 206 36 Available-for-sale financial assets 25 27 Other equity-related items 49 3 Other 5 86 5,241 5,940 Represented on the face of the balance sheet as: Deferred tax assets 3 7 Deferred tax liabilities 5,244 5,947 5,241 5,940 Deferred tax assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at year-end exchange rates.
The deferred tax included in the Group income statement is as follows: US$m 2008 2007 Tax losses 64 185 Employee provisions 25 11 Other provisions 323 17 Rehabilitation and closure 37 16 Accelerated depreciation 385 360 Deferred stripping 39 27 Trade and other payables receivables 201 27 Other 77 50 From continuing operations 427 181 From discontinued operations 10 427 191 Tax audits The Group periodically assesses its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years open to audit based upon the latest information available.
For those matters where it is probable that an adjustment will be made, the Group recorded its best estimate of the tax liability, including related interest charges, in the current tax liability.
Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to changes in tax laws.
Whilst management believes they have adequately provided for the probable outcome of these matters, future results may include favourable or unfavourable adjustments to these estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are made, or resolved, or when the status of limitation lapses.
The final outcome of tax examinations may result in a materially different outcome than assumed in the tax liabilities.
Earnings Per Share US$m 2008 2007 Continuing operations: Profit before exceptional items attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent from continuing operations 4,698 5,372 Exceptional items from continuing operations 1,103 118 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent from continuing operations 3,595 5,490 Interest in respect of convertible borrowings 19 16 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent for diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 3,614 5,506 Total operations: Profit before exceptional items attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent from continuing operations 4,698 5,372 Exceptional items from continuing operations 1,103 118 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent from continuing operations 3,595 5,490 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent from discontinued operations 53 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent 3,595 5,543 Interest in respect of convertible borrowings 19 16 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent for diluted earnings per share 3,614 5,559 Weighted average number of shares 000 excluding own shares: For basic earnings per share 958,667 959,549 Effect of dilution: Free shares and share options 6,224 9,196 Convertible borrowings 13,571 17,418 For diluted earnings per share 978,462 986,163 Basic earnings per share US$ Continuing operations: before exceptional items 4.90 5.60 exceptional items 1.15 0.12 3.75 5.72 Discontinued operations: before exceptional items 0.06 exceptional items 0.06 Total: before exceptional items 4.90 5.66 exceptional items 1.15 0.12 3.75 5.78 Diluted earnings per share US$ Continuing operations: before exceptional items 4.82 5.47 exceptional items 1.13 0.12 3.69 5.59 Discontinued operations: before exceptional items 0.05 exceptional items 0.05 Total: before exceptional items 4.82 5.52 exceptional items 1.13 0.12 3.69 5.64 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 153 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 12.
Earnings Per Share continued Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to the equity holders of the parent company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding for the year, excluding own shares.
Adjustments are made for continuing and discontinued operations and before exceptional items and after exceptional items as outlined above, to present a meaningful basis for analysis.
Diluted earnings per share is based on basic earnings per share adjusted for the potential dilution if director and employee free shares and share options are exercised and the convertible bonds are converted into ordinary shares.
An adjustment is also made to net profit for the interest in respect of the convertible borrowings.
Dividends Paid and Proposed US$m 2008 2007 Declared and paid during the year: Final dividend for 2007 34 per ordinary share 2006: 30 per ordinary share 327 290 Interim dividend for 2008 18 per ordinary share 2007: 16 per ordinary share 172 153 499 443 Proposed for approval at the Annual General Meeting not recognised as a liability as at 31 December : Final dividend for 2008 nil per ordinary share 2007: 34 per ordinary share 326 The 2008 interim dividend was paid on 10 October 2008.
As stated in note 26, own shares held in the ESOP and by the ECMP have waived the right to receive dividends.
Restated for revisions to the provisional Austral and Eland acquisition accounting refer to note 7.
The Group has a 20.91% interest in the service organisation, Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Limited, acquired in a business combination, through which the shareholders gain access to export markets enabling them to realise higher coal sales prices than in the domestic market.
The export rights are amortised based on a units-of-production method.
The Group acquired the right to market to third parties various leading technologies for the mining, mineral processing and metals extraction industries, in a business combination.
The technology patents are amortised over their useful economic lives of 20 years to June 2023.
The Group-acquired hydroelectricity rights will be amortised over the expected life of the operation, currently estimated as being 40 years following the completion of construction.
A long-term feed contract is being amortised over an eight-year period.
Other intangible assets mainly comprise computer software and software development that are being amortised over their useful economic lives of between three to five years.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 155 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 15.
Impairment Testing Goodwill Goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit CGU or groups of cash-generating units no larger than the reportable segment which are expected to benefit from the related acquisitions.
The carrying values of goodwill by CGU are as follows: US$m 2008 2007 Chrome Africa 35 47 Copper Americas 1,185 1,185 Zinc Lead 1,546 1,546 Zinc Lead Europe 212 222 2,978 3,000 The following goodwill balances result from the requirement on an acquisition to recognise a deferred tax liability, calculated as the difference between the tax effect of the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities and their tax bases.
For the purposes of testing this goodwill for impairment, any of the related deferred tax liabilities recognised on acquisition that remain at balance date are treated as part of the relevant CGU or group of CGUs.
US$m 2008 2007 Coal Australia 233 125 Coal Americas South 464 464 Copper Americas South 1,500 1,537 Copper Australasia 151 151 Nickel Americas North 856 856 Nickel Americas South 119 295 Nickel Africa 78 78 Nickel Australasia 79 34 Platinum Africa 284 384 Zinc Lead Americas North 244 244 Zinc Lead Americas South 160 160 Zinc Lead Australasia 8 4,168 4,336 7,146 7,336 Net of 2008 impairment loss discussed below.
The Group performs goodwill impairment testing on an annual basis and at the reporting date if there are indicators of impairment.
The most recent test was undertaken at 31 December 2008.
In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit or reportable segment is compared with its recoverable amount.
2008 testing The goodwill impairment expense recognised as an exceptional item in the income statement refer to note 10, relates to the following: Impairment US$m method 2008 Copper Americas South FVLCS 37 Nickel Americas South FVLCS 176 213 For the purpose of goodwill impairment testing, recoverable amounts have been determined based on fair value less costs to sell FVLCS calculations, with the exception of Coal Australia goodwill, Coal Colombia goodwill, Chrome Africa goodwill and partially as Copper Australasia which have been based on value-in-use VIU calculations.
Where observable market prices are not available, FVLCS was calculated using a discounted cash flow methodology taking account of assumptions that would be made by market participants.
VIU is based on the cash flows expected to be generated from mines, smelting and refining operations included within the cash-generating units or reportable segments.
Cash flows are projected for periods up to the date that mining and refining is expected to cease, based on managements expectations at the time of completing the testing.
This date depends on a number of variables, including recoverable reserves and resources, the forecast selling prices for such production and the treatment charges received from the refining operations.
Cash flows have been projected for a maximum of 32 years.
156 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 Key assumptions The key assumptions used in the VIU calculations and in determining the FVLCS are: recoverable reserves and resources: commodity prices: operating costs: treatment charges receivable by smelting and refining operations: capital expenditure: discount rates: and foreign exchange rates.
Economically recoverable reserves and resources represent managements expectations at the time of completing the impairment testing, based on reserves and resource statements and exploration and evaluation work undertaken by appropriately qualified persons.
A summary of the mineral resources and ore reserves released on 29 January 2009 is summarised as follows: Reserves Resources Million tonnes Proved Probable Measured Indicated Inferred Chrome Africa 51 21 92 112 235 Vanadium Africa 16 12 39 41 128 Coal Africa 835 27 2,248 1,008 844 Coal Australia 1,235 1,213 3,478 4,122 5,754 Coal Americas South 630 181 185 1,362 1,061 Copper Americas North 16 4 20 4 7 Copper Americas South 1,2672,7331,583 5,4583,383 Copper Australasia 78 47 846 1,174 1,636 Nickel Americas North 10 16 18 35 43 Nickel Americas South 34 34 46 127 42 Nickel Africa 23 28 Nickel Australasia 17 47 35 83 96 Platinum Africa 12 16 35 84 107 Zinc Lead Americas North 12 3 15 3 Zinc Lead Australasia 39 105 247 199 142 Long-term commodity prices and treatment charges are determined by reference to external market forecasts.
Specific prices are determined using information available in the market after considering the nature of the commodity produced and long-term market expectations.
Forecast prices vary in accordance with the year the sale is expected to occur.
To this end, whilst prices are expected to remain depressed in the short term, they are expected to increase as world economic conditions improve in the medium term.
The commodity prices used in the impairment review are management estimates and are within the range of the available analyst forecasts at 31 December 2008.
The attributable value to reserves and resources using the FVLCS method is based on managements best estimates using market-based forecasts and information available in the market.
Operating cost assumptions are based on managements best estimate at the date of impairment testing of the costs to be incurred.
Costs are determined after considering current operating costs, future cost expectations and the nature and location of the operation.
Smelting and refining treatment charges vary in accordance with the commodity processes and time of processing.
Future capital expenditure is based on managements best estimate of required future capital requirements.
It has been determined by taking into account all committed and anticipated capital expenditure adjusted for future cost estimates.
The discount rates that have been used are outlined below.
In the case of FVLCS they represent real after-tax rates, whereas the VIU discount rates represent real pre-tax rates.
These rates are based on the weighted average cost of capital specific to each CGU or reportable segment and the currency of the cash flows generated.
The weighted average cost of capital reflects the current market assessment of the time value of money, equity market volatility and the risks specific to the CGU or reportable segment for which cash flows have not already been adjusted.
These rates were calculated with reference to market information from third-party advisors.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 157 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 15.
Impairment Testing continued Impairment Discount method rate Chrome VIU 10% Coal VIU 10% Copper VIU 10% Copper FVLCS 7% 11% Nickel FVLCS 7% 10% Platinum FVLCS 7% 8% Zinc Lead FVLCS 7% In assessing the FVLCS, another key assumption that would be considered by market participants, is foreign exchange rates.
The rates that have been utilised are based on external market forecasts.
Specific rates are determined from information available in the market after considering long-term market expectations and the countries in which the Group operates.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions Whilst the directors remain confident of recovery in the market in the medium term, given the current volatility in the market, adverse changes in key assumptions as described below could result in changes to impairment charges specifically in relation to Copper Americas, Zinc Lead and Zinc Lead Europe.
A summary of the mineral resources and ore reserves related to the goodwill balances, released on 29 January 2009, is summarised as follows: Reserves Resources Million tonnes Proved Probable Measured Indicated Inferred Copper Americas 1,283 2,737 1,603 5,462 3,390 Zinc Lead 51 108 262 202 142 Commodity prices commodity price forecasts were based on external market consensus information.
The copper prices ranged from US$1.50 per pound to US$2.50 per pound, US$0.64 per pound to US$0.86 per pound for zinc and US$0.43 per pound to US$0.64 per pound for lead, varying in accordance with the year the sale was expected to occur.
Treatment charges received from smelting and refining in performing the FVLCS calculation for Zinc Lead, treatment charges were estimated to be in the range of US$200 per tonne to US$231 per tonne for zinc and US$103 per tonne to US$124 per tonne for lead refining fees, based on the year of processing.
As outlined above, these prices were based on external market consensus forecasts.
Foreign exchange rates foreign exchange rates used were based on external market consensus forecasts.
The US$:ARS rate ranged from 3.4 to 3.5, AUD:US$ rate ranged from 0.61 to 0.63, the US$:CAD rate ranged from 1.25 to 1.27, the US$:CLP rate from 690 to 807, the EUR:US$ rate ranged from 1.27 to 1.28 and the US$:PEN from 3.23 to 3.92 varying in accordance with the year the sale was expected to occur.
The impairment tests are particularly sensitive to changes in commodity prices, discount rates and foreign exchange rates.
Changes to these assumptions could have resulted in changes to impairment charges.
The below table summarises the change required to key assumptions that would result in the carrying value equalling the recoverable values: Change in the key assumption which would result in the recoverable amount equalling the carrying value % Excess of recoverable amount over Foreign carrying value Commodity Discount exchange US$m prices rate rate Copper Americas 993 9% 2% 19% Zinc Lead 989 8% 2% 12% Zinc Lead Europe 1,057 28% 5% 36% Amounts relate to absolute movement in discount rate.
For the purposes of testing for impairment of goodwill using the VIU basis for Chrome, the excess of recoverable amount over the carrying value was US$5,325 million and management is of the opinion that no reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions could result in an impairment expense being recognised.
2007 testing For the purpose of goodwill impairment testing, except for the testing of US$1,546 million allocated to the Zinc Lead reportable segment, recoverable amounts were determined based on VIU calculations.
VIU was based on the cash flows expected to be generated from mines, smelting and refining operations included within the CGUs or reportable segments.
Cash flows were projected for periods up to the date mining and refining was expected to cease, based on managements expectations at the time of completing the testing.
This date depended on a number of variables, including recoverable reserves and resources, the forecast selling prices for such production and the treatment charges received from the refining operations.
Cash flows were projected for a maximum of 26 years.
158 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 For the goodwill allocated to the Zinc Lead segment, recoverable amount was determined based on FVLCS.
As observable market prices are not available, this was calculated using discounted cash flow methodology taking account of assumptions that would be made by market participants.
Where appropriate, this value was cross checked to recent market transactions, after allowing for various factors including changes in the economic environment since the date of the transactions and differences in the location and quality of assets.
Key assumptions The key assumptions used in the VIU calculations for goodwill were consistent with those outlined above, and used in 2008.
Management determined the value of the assumptions in the same manner, specifically, by considering economically recoverable reserves and resources and market consensus prices.
The discount rates that were utilised are outlined below, and represent the real pre-tax rates that reflect the current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGU or reportable segment for which cash flows had not been adjusted.
These rates were based on the weighted average cost of capital specific to each CGU or reportable segment and the currency of the cash flows generated.
These rates were calculated with reference to information from third-party advisors.
Impairment Discount method rate Chrome VIU 9% Copper Americas VIU 11% 17% Zinc Lead FVLCS 7% Zinc Lead Europe VIU 10% 11% Sensitivity to changes in assumptions There was no impairment expense recognised in 2007 and the directors were of the view that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would have resulted in an impairment expense being recognised.
Other non-current assets The impairment losses recognised as an exceptional item in the income statement refer to note 10, excluding the goodwill impairment above, relate to the following: US$m 2008 Chrome Africa 18 Copper Americas North 227 Copper Americas South 199 Nickel Americas North 20 Nickel Americas South 279 Zinc Lead Australasia 18 761 The most significant contributors to the impairment in Copper Americas North of US$227 million was the current pricing environment and increasing operating costs associated with increasing environmental costs.
In respect of Copper Americas South, an impairment of US$199 million has been recorded due to increases in input costs including electricity and sulphuric acid, eroding margins at Lomas Bayas and reduced treatment and refining charges from the shortage of concentrate at Alto Norte.
The most significant contributors to the impairment at Nickel Americas South Falcondo ferronickel operation was the suspension of production in August 2008 due to the combination of high oil prices and lower nickel prices.
Production at this asset was suspended in August 2008.
Impairment charges of US$18 million were incurred due to the closure of the Lennard Shelf zinc operation in Western Australia in August 2008, US$20 million due to the early closure of the Craig and Thayer-Lindsley nickel mines in Canada in November 2008 and impairment charges of US$18 million in relation to chrome mineral reserves.
In addition to these impairment charges, a net impairment charge of US$34 million was recorded in respect of the Groups investment in Lonmin refer to note 10 and 20.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 159 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 16.
Mining properties and leases at 31 December 2008 include deferred stripping costs of US$588 million 2007: US$432 million.
US$243 million 2007: US$165 million of deferred stripping costs were capitalised during the year.
The carrying value of plant and equipment held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts at 31 December 2008 is US$88 million 2007: US$125 million.
Leased assets and assets under hire purchase contracts are pledged as security for the related finance leases and hire purchase liabilities.
The carrying value of other property, plant and equipment pledged as security is US$nil 2007: US$nil.
US$20 million 2007: US$nil of interest was capitalised during the year and there is US$19 million 2007: US$nil of capitalised interest within property, plant and equipment at 31 December 2008.
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment at 31 December 2008 that is temporarily idle is US$nil 2007: US$nil.
The Group has made commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment totalling US$346 million at 31 December 2008 2007: US$532 million.
Biological Assets US$m 2008 2007 At 1 January 19 15 Disposals 3 Net gain loss from fair value less estimated selling cost adjustments 1 2 Translation adjustments 4 2 At 31 December 11 19 Biological assets are stated at fair value less estimated selling costs, which has been determined based on independent valuations as at 31 December 2008 and 2007, on the basis of open market value, supported by market evidence.
Inventories US$m 2008 2007 Current: Raw materials and consumables 1,353 1,451 Work in progress 1,350 1,763 Finished goods 870 953 3,573 4,167 Non-current: Work in progress 39 17 39 17 Non-current inventories comprise long-term ore stockpiles that are not planned to be processed within one year.
Trade and Other Receivables US$m 2008 2007 Current: Trade debtors 1,570 2,451 Advances 144 189 Employee entitlement receivables refer to note 32 11 6 Recoverable sales tax 298 290 Other debtors 83 31 2,106 2,967 Non-current: Employee entitlement receivables refer to note 32 33 38 Recoverable sales tax 5 Other debtors 44 42 77 85 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 161 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 20.
Investment in Associates Lonmin plc In August 2008, the Group acquired 16,706,481 shares in Lonmin plc for US$1,084 million.
In October 2008, the Group acquired an additional 22,232,940 shares for US$794 million, resulting in a total acquisition price of US$1,878 million.
The August 2008 and October 2008 transactions have been separately accounted for under IFRS.
Following the October 2008 transaction, the Group held 24.9% of Lonmin plc and determined it was an associate of the Group.
Lonmin plc which is listed on the London Stock Exchange is one of the worlds largest platinum producers with operations principally in South Africa.
The share price of Lonmin as listed on the London Stock Exchange at 31 December 2008 was GBP9.11 per share.
The Group believes that the recoverable amount of the investment calculated using the VIU method was higher than the value based on the listed share price at that date because this share price reflected significant uncertainty and volatility in world economic markets as opposed to the fundamental long-term value of this investment.
However, the Group has determined that this recoverable amount was lower than the carrying amount of the investment.
Consequently, the carrying value was written down resulting in a net exceptional impairment charge of US$34 million refer to notes 10 and 15.
Other associates The Groups other associates are: interests in coal terminals Newcastle Coal Shippers Pty Ltd, Port Kembla Coal Terminal Limited and Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Ltd, through which it gains access to export markets see note 36 : and a 25% interest in the Noranda Income Fund which owns a zinc refinery in , Quebec.
The Group held 12,500,000 2007: 12,500,00 units in the Noranda Income Fund and the unit price as listed on the Toronto stock exchange at 31 December 2008 was CAD4.15 2007: CAD9.67.
The Group has determined that the recoverable amount of the investment calculated using the VIU method is higher than the value based on the listed unit price because of significant uncertainty and volatility in world economic markets in late 2008.
The companies which own the coal terminals are not listed so there is no published quoted price for the value of these investments.
The carrying value is equal to fair value.
The following is a summary of the financial information of the above associates: US$m 2008 2007 Share of associates balance sheet: Non-current assets 2,188 256 Current assets 263 83 Total assets 2,451 339 Non-current liabilities 367 113 Current liabilities 121 40 Total liabilities 488 153 Net assets 1,963 186 Carrying amount of the investment 1,963 186 Share of associates revenue and profit: Revenue 175 265 EBITDA 22 23 EBIT 23 15 Net interest paid 2 1 Income tax expense 1 1 Profit for the year 22 15 All associates have a reporting date of 31 December, except for Lonmin, which has a reporting date of 30 September.
The Groups share of Lonmins results are included above and have been estimated based on market consensus estimates.
Interests in Joint Venture Entities The Group has various interests in jointly controlled entities, operations and assets as outlined in note 36.
These interests are accounted for in the manner outlined in note 6.
The following is a summary of the financial information of the Groups jointly controlled entities in Africa and South America: US$m 2008 2007 Share of joint ventures balance sheets: Non-current assets 9,916 9,950 Current assets 508 690 Total assets 10,424 10,640 Non-current liabilities 2,026 2,121 Current liabilities 331 336 Total liabilities 2,357 2,457 Net assets 8,067 8,183 Net assets consolidated 8,067 8,183 Share of joint ventures revenue and profit: Revenue 2,447 2,450 Cost of sales before depreciation and amortisation 498 310 Distribution costs 231 129 Administration expenses before depreciation and amortisation 30 54 EBITDA 1,688 1,957 Depreciation and amortisation 384 370 EBIT 1,304 1,587 Finance income 7 8 Finance costs 14 22 Profit before tax 1,297 1,573 Income tax expense 372 431 Profit for the year 925 1,142 22.
Available-for-sale Financial Assets US$m 2008 2007 At fair value: Shares listed 68 87 Shares unlisted 3 26 Royalty contract 90 90 161 203 Available-for-sale financial assets consist of a long-term royalty income contract and investments in listed and unlisted ordinary shares that have no fixed maturity date or coupon rate.
These investments are held for strategic purposes.
In 2008 and 2007, the listed shares related to companies in the mining industry.
The listed shares are carried at fair value.
Unlisted shares mainly comprise interests in ports in Australia used to export coal and are carried at fair value.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 163 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 23.
Derivative Financial Assets US$m 2008 2007 Current: At fair value: Foreign currency cash flow hedges 6 1 Fair value interest rate swap hedges 4 Other commodity derivatives 8 3 Other foreign currency derivatives 15 81 29 89 Non-current: At fair value: Foreign currency cash flow hedges 47 112 Fair value interest rate swap hedges 715 98 Other interest rate derivatives 12 774 210 Total 803 299 24.
Other Financial Assets US$m 2008 2007 Current: At amortised cost: Loans to joint venture partners 54 54 Non-current: At fair value: Rehabilitation trust fund 42 43 Other 28 34 70 77 At amortised cost: Loans to joint venture partners 21 70 98 Total 70 152 Loans to joint venture partners A loan to Merafe was made on establishment of the Chrome Pooling and Sharing Venture PSV.
At 31 December 2008, US$nil 2007: US$21 million was subject to a floating interest rate based on South African prime rates.
This loan was secured by the Groups ability to acquire Merafes PSV assets at fair value in the event of default.
A loan was made to African Rainbow Minerals Limited ARM on establishment of ARM Coal.
At 31 December 2008, US$nil 2007: US$54 million was subject to a floating interest rate based on South African prime rates.
This loan was secured by the Groups ability to acquire ARM Coal assets at fair value in the event of default.
Rehabilitation trust fund The rehabilitation trust fund in South Africa receives cash contributions to accumulate funds for the Groups rehabilitation liabilities relating to the eventual closure of the Groups coal operations.
Amounts are paid out from the trust fund following completion and approval of the rehabilitation work by the South African Department of Minerals and Energy.
The contributions to the trust fund are placed with investment banks that are responsible for making investments in equity and money market instruments.
The trust fund is to be used according to the terms of the trust deed and the assets are not available for the general purpose of the Group.
The trust fund is carried at fair value.
Cash and Cash Equivalents US$m 2008 2007 Cash at bank and in hand 720 487 Short-term deposits 436 661 1,156 1,148 The majority of cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates of interest with a limited amount at fixed rates of interest or interest free.
Short-term deposits are made at call and for less than one week, dependent on the short-term cash requirements of the Group and earn interest based on the respective short-term deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007 approximates carrying value.
For the purposes of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following at 31 December: US$m 2008 2007 Cash at bank and in hand 720 487 Short-term deposits 436 661 Bank overdrafts refer to note 28 11 79 1,145 1,069 During the year, the Group entered into new finance leases and hire purchase contracts to purchase various items of plant and equipment for US$30 million 2007: US$26 million, issued shares from the conversion of the convertible borrowings and issued shares to the ESOP for a market value of US$412 million 2007: US$185 million which did not require the use of cash and cash equivalents and are not included in the net cash flow used in investing and financing activities in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
Capital and Reserves US$m Authorised: 15,109,948,397 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 1 January 2007 7,555 13,609,948,397 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each cancellation 6,805 1,500,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 31 December 2007 and at 31 December 2008 750 50,000 deferred shares of GBP1.00 each as at 31 December 2007 and at 31 December 2008 1 special voting share of US$0.50 as at 31 December 2007 and as at 31 December 2008 750 Issued, called up and fully paid: 943,150,383 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 1 January 2007 471 4,000,000 ordinary shares issued on 31 January 2007 to the ESOP 2 24,516,537 ordinary shares issued on the exercise of convertible bonds to 31 December 2007 12 971,666,920 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 31 December 2007 485 6,000,000 ordinary shares issued on 16 January 2008 to the ESOP 3 3,620 ordinary shares issued on the exercise of the convertible borrowings to 31 December 2008 977,670,540 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 31 December 2008 488 Share premium: At 1 January 2007 9,522 4,000,000 ordinary shares issued on 31 January 2007 to the ESOP 183 24,516,537 ordinary shares issued on the exercise of convertible bonds to 31 December 2007 194 As at 31 December 2007 9,899 6,000,000 ordinary shares issued on 16 January 2008 to the ESOP 409 3,620 shares issued on the exercise of the convertible borrowings to 31 December 2008 As at 31 December 2008 10,308 Own shares: 6,173,747 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 1 January 2007 154 4,000,000 ordinary shares purchased on 31 January 2007 by the ESOP 185 9,310,000 ordinary shares purchased in the ECMP during the year 518 291,585 ordinary shares purchased during the year 14 6,618,641 ordinary shares disposed during the year 220 13,156,691 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 31 December 2007 651 6,000,000 ordinary shares purchased on 16 January 2008 by the ESOP 412 6,920,000 ordinary shares purchased in July 2008 by the ECMP 508 4,664,407 ordinary shares disposed during the year 256 242,702 ordinary shares purchased during the year 17 21,654,986 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 31 December 2008 1,332 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 165 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 26 Capital and Reserves continued Details in respect of the various classes of shares are outlined in the Directors Report on pages 87 to 88.
Issue of ordinary shares On 31 January 2007, 4,000,000 shares were issued to the ESOP at a market price of GBP23.58 per share.
On 16 January 2008, 6,000,000 shares were issued to the ESOP at a market price of GBP34.90 per share.
During 2008, 0.03% of the US$375 million of convertible borrowings was converted at the option of the holders into 3,620 ordinary shares in Xstrata plc refer to note 29.
Own shares Own shares comprise shares of Xstrata plc held in the Employee Share Option Plan ESOP and shares held by Batiss Investments Batiss for the Equity Capital Management Program ECMP.
The shares acquired by the ESOP are either stock market purchases or share issues from the Company.
The ESOP is used to coordinate the funding and manage the delivery of ordinary shares for options and free share awards under the Groups employee award schemes.
The trustee of the ESOP is permitted to place the shares back into the market and may hold up to 5% of the issued share capital of the Company at any one time.
At 31 December 2008, 5,424,986 2007: 3,846,691 shares, equivalent to 0.5% 2007: 0.4% of the total issued share capital, were held by the trust with a cost of US$306 million 2007: US$133 million and market value of US$51 million 2007: US$271 million.
The trust has waived the right to receive dividends from the shares that it holds.
Costs relating to the administration of the trust are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
The shares acquired from the stock market by Batiss and held for the ECMP are used by the Group as a source of financing for future acquisitions, or placed back into the market.
The decision as to when to place the shares in the market, use the shares to assist the Group in facilitating future transactions, or to repurchase shares for cancellation, is considered in light of the Groups funding requirements and capital structure.
Batiss is not permitted to hold more than 10% of the issued share capital of the Company at any one time.
Batiss has entered into an option agreement with Xstrata Capital Corporation A V V Xstrata Capital, a wholly-owned subsidiary within the Xstrata Group, whereby Batiss has granted to Xstrata Capital a right to require Batiss to sell the purchased Xstrata shares to a third party other than a subsidiary of Xstrata plc, as nominated by Xstrata Capital, at an exercise price of 1p per share.
Under the option agreement, Xstrata Capital pays Batiss a premium for this right, the premium being the equivalent of the market price paid by Batiss for the shares plus associated costs less the 1p exercise price.
This premium payment, together with funds from a subscription by Xstrata Capital for non-voting redeemable preference shares in Batiss, provides the funding for Batiss to acquire the shares in the market.
These payments are sourced from the existing and future cash resources of Xstrata Capital.
Xstrata Capital is able to exercise its right under the option agreement for a period of six years from the date of each purchase, but has not chosen to do so in either 2008 or 2007.
Batiss has waived its right to receive dividends on the shares which it holds.
At 31 December 2008, 16,230,000 2007: 9,310,000 shares, equivalent to 1.7% 2007: 1.0% of the total issued share capital, were held by the trust with a cost of US$1,026 million 2007: US$518 million and market value of US$152 million 2007: US$656 million.
166 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 Consolidated changes in equity Attributable to equity holders of the parent Convertible borrowings Issued Share Own equity Other Retained Minority Total US$m capital premium shares component reserves earnings Total interests equity At 1 January 2007 471 9,522 154 78 4,472 4,057 18,446 1,146 19,592 Recognised income and expenses 595 5,472 6,067 326 6,393 Issue of share capital 14 377 185 22 184 184 Own share purchases 532 532 532 Own share disposals 220 164 56 56 Cost of IFRS 2 equity-settled sharebased compensation plans 62 62 62 Acquisition of subsidiaries 385 385 Capital injection 180 180 Redemption of minority interests 12 12 10 22 Dividends paid 443 443 485 928 Loan reclassification 156 156 At 31 December 2007 485 9,899 651 56 5,055 8,984 23,828 1,386 25,214 Recognised income and expenses 3,601 3,520 81 269 188 Issue of share capital 3 409 412 Own share purchases 525 525 525 Own share disposals 256 192 64 64 Cost of IFRS 2 equity-settled sharebased compensation plans 245 245 245 Modification of share-based awards 269 269 269 Acquisition of subsidiaries 80 80 Capital injection 122 122 Dividends paid 499 499 221 720 At 31 December 2008 488 10,308 1,332 56 1,454 11,789 22,763 1,636 24,399 Other reserves Net unrealised Foreign Revaluation Other gains currency US$m reserves reserves losses translation Total At 1 January 2007 1,418 1,241 81 1,894 4,472 Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 22 22 Available-for-sale financial assets 49 49 Losses on cash flow hedges 261 261 Realised losses on cash flow hedges 121 121 Recycled foreign currency translation net losses 28 28 Redemption of minority interests 12 12 Foreign currency translation differences 2 672 670 Deferred tax 1 33 34 At 31 December 2007 1,440 1,229 175 2,561 5,055 Available-for-sale financial assets 114 114 Losses on cash flow hedges 157 157 Realised losses on cash flow hedges 360 360 Recycled foreign currency translation net losses 246 246 Foreign currency translation differences 3,980 3,980 Deferred tax 21 65 44 At 31 December 2008 1,440 1,229 107 1,108 1,454 Realised losses of US$360 million 2007: US$121 million are included in Revenue in the Income Statement.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 167 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 26 Capital and Reserves continued Revaluation reserves This reserve principally records the remeasurement from cost of the 19.9% interest held in Falconbridge Limited Falconbridge to the fair value of 19.9% of the identifiable net assets of Falconbridge on 15 August 2006, the date the Group obtained control of Falconbridge.
Other reserves This reserve principally originated during 2002 from the merger of Xstrata AG into Xstrata plc of US$279 million and the issue of shares from the acquisition of the Duiker and Enex Groups of US$935 million.
Net unrealised gains losses reserve This reserve records the remeasurement of available-for-sale financial assets to fair value refer to note 22 and the effective portion of the gain or loss on cash flow hedging contracts refer to note 23, 30 and 37.
Deferred tax is provided on the remeasurement at tax rates enacted or substantively enacted.
Foreign currency translation reserve This is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
It is also used to record the exchange differences from the translation of quasi equity inter-company loans in foreign operations.
On disposal or partial disposal of a foreign entity or repayment of a quasi equity loan, the deferred accumulated amount recognised in this reserve is transferred to the income statement.
Minority interest Minority interest movements in 2008 relate to the acquisition of Resource Pacific refer note 7 and the subsequent disposal of a 12% interest in the company refer note 8.
Minority interest movements in 2007 relate to the acquisition of Eland and the finalisation of the provisional Eland acquisition accounting in 2008 refer note 7, a capital injection to Koniambo Nickel SAS, and the reclassification of a portion of the Koniambo Nickel SAS minority interest to liabilities in accordance with IFRS.
Capital management The capital of Xstrata plc is the total equity and long-term borrowings refer note 28, including capital market notes and convertible borrowings refer note 29 on the Groups balance sheet.
The objective of the Companys capital management is to grow and manage a diversified portfolio of metals and mining businesses with the aim of delivering industry-leading returns for its shareholders.
The management of the Groups capital is performed by the Board of Directors.
There are no externally imposed capital requirements.
Trade and Other Payables US$m 2008 2007 Current: Trade payables 1,667 2,429 Sundry payables 530 426 Interest payable 145 69 Accruals and other payables 891 821 3,233 3,745 Non-current: Accruals and other payables 29 54 29 54 Total 3,262 3,799 All current payables are expected to be settled in the next 12 months and non-current payables are expected to be settled over a weighted average life of 12 years 2007: 13 years.
Interest-bearing Loans and Borrowings US$m 2008 2007 Current: At amortised cost: Bank overdrafts 11 79 Syndicated bank loans unsecured 481 Bank loans other unsecured 84 41 Capital market notes 593 350 Minority interest loans 17 Preference shares 64 149 i Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 25 18 794 1,118 Non-current: At amortised cost: Syndicated bank loans unsecured 6,974 4,265 Bank loans other unsecured 221 264 Capital market notes 8,913 6,338 Minority interest loans 81 81 i Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 85 114 Preference shares 199 Other loans 63 66 16,337 11,327 Non-current: At amortised cost: Convertible borrowings 331 327 Total 17,462 12,772 Less cash and cash equivalents refer to note 25 1,156 1,148 Net debt 16,306 11,624 Net debt is defined as loans and borrowings net of cash and cash equivalents.
i Secured over specific items of plant and equipment refer to note 16.
Existing facilities in 2008 The Xstrata Group has entered into the bank loans as described below: Syndicated bank loans On 25 July 2007, the Group entered into a guaranteed US$4,680 million multi-currency revolving syndicated loan facility Syndicated Facilities Agreement.
Interest is payable on drawn down amounts at a rate which is the aggregate of LIBOR or, in relation to any loan in Euro, EURIBOR and the relevant margin, which is 27.5 basis points per annum.
The facility matures on 31 July 2012.
As of 31 December 2008, US$195 million was available to be drawn under this facility.
On 6 October 2008, the Group entered into a US$5,000 million multi-currency revolving syndicated loan facility Club Facility.
Interest is payable on drawn down amounts at a rate which is the aggregate of LIBOR or, in relation to any loan in Euro, EURIBOR and the relevant margin, which is 150 basis points per annum.
The Club Facility matures on 30 September 2011.
As at 31 December 2008, US$2,452 million was available to be drawn under this facility.
The Club Facility was amended on 30 December 2008 to increase the facility amount to US$5,459 million.
Repaid facilities in 2008 On 25 February 2008, the Group entered into a guaranteed US$500 million revolving loan facility that matured on 31 December 2008.
Interest was payable on the loans at LIBOR plus 50.0 basis points per annum.
On 8 October 2007, the Group entered into a guaranteed US$2,000 million 364-day revolving loan facility.
Draw downs had been made to partly fund the acquisitions of Anvil Hill, Austral Coal Limited and Eland Platinum Holdings Limited.
Interest was payable on the loans at a rate which was the aggregate of LIBOR and the relevant margin, which was 27.5 basis points per annum.
This facility was refinanced during 2008.
On 6 December 2007, the Group entered into a guaranteed US$1,500 million 364-day revolving loan facility.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 169 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 28.
Interest-bearing Loans and Borrowings continued Repaid facilities in 2007 In connection with the Falconbridge acquisition in August 2006, Xstrata plc and certain subsidiaries of the Group entered into the Acquisition Facilities Agreement, the Debt Bridge Facility Agreement and the Equity Bridge Facility Agreement.
The purpose of these agreements was to meet the financing requirements of the Falconbridge Offer and to subsequently act as the Groups principal bank facilities following the Falconbridge acquisition.
The Acquisition Facilities Agreement was a US$9,500 million committed multi-currency syndicated loan with facilities which consisted of: i a 36-month term loan facility for US$3,353 million: ii a 60-month-and-one-day term loan facility for US$1,117 million: iii a 60-month revolving loan facility for US$3,353 million: and iv a 364-day term loan facility for US$1,677 million with the ability to extend by 364 days.
Interest was payable on the loans at a rate which was based on LIBOR plus the relevant margins, which were initially between 50 and 70 basis points per annum.
The Group was liable to pay a commitment fee on the undrawn portion of the syndicated loan facility at a rate per annum equal to 35% of the applicable margin payable on the threeand five-year tranches and 30% of the applicable margin on the 364-day tranche.
This facility was fully repaid in July 2007 using the US$4,680 million syndicated loan described and defined above.
Capital market notes As at 31 December 2008, other unsecured private placements included: Fixed or Effective Effective At floating interest At interest 31 Dec 08 interest rate % 31 Dec 07 rate % Facility Denomination US$m rate in 2008 Maturity US$m in 2007 a Series A senior unsecured notes US$ Fixed 5.90 Jun 08 152 5.90 a Series B senior unsecured notes US$ 39 Fixed 6.75 Jun 11 53 6.75 a Series B senior unsecured notes US$ 52 Fixed 7.00 Jun 11 53 7.00 b Unsecured notes US$ 499 Floating 3.41 Nov 09 499 5.75 b Unsecured notes US$ 810 Fixed 5.50 Nov 11 771 5.50 b Unsecured notes US$ 1,187 Fixed 5.80 Nov 16 1,024 5.80 c Unsecured notes EUR 754 Fixed 4.88 Jun 12 741 4.88 c Unsecured notes EUR 774 Fixed 5.25 Jun 17 738 5.25 d Unsecured notes US$ 494 Fixed 6.90 Nov 37 495 6.90 e Unsecured notes EUR 1,096 Fixed 5.88 May 11 e Unsecured notes EUR 881 Fixed 6.25 May 15 e Unsecured notes GBP 774 Fixed 7.38 May 20 f h Senior debentures CAD Fixed 4.89 Dec 08 184 4.89 f Senior debentures US$ 337 Fixed 6.03 Feb 11 329 6.03 f Senior debentures US$ 277 Fixed 5.88 Jun 12 270 5.88 f Senior debentures US$ 311 Fixed 6.06 Jul 12 314 6.06 f Senior debentures US$ 406 Fixed 6.34 Oct 15 348 6.34 f Senior debentures US$ 265 Fixed 6.16 Jun 15 248 6.16 f Senior debentures US$ 237 Fixed 6.39 Jun 17 236 6.39 f Senior debentures US$ 233 Fixed 6.77 Jun 35 233 6.77 g Commercial paper US$ 80 Fixed 2.75 April 13 9,506 6,688 a An Australian subsidiary has designated the series A and B senior unsecured notes as a fair value hedge of an investment in South America refer to note 37.
The hedge is being used to reduce exposure to foreign currency risk.
b In November 2006, the Group issued US$2,250 million of guaranteed capital market notes to refinance existing debt facilities.
The notes are comprised of three tranches, a US$1,000 million 10-year note at a fixed interest rate of 5.8%, a US$750 million five-year note at a fixed interest rate of 5.5% and a US$500 million three-year note that bears interest at a rate based on LIBOR plus 35 basis points.
c In June 2007, the Group issued a two-tranche EUR1,000 million guaranteed bond offering, comprising EUR500 million 4.875% fixed guaranteed notes due 2012 and EUR500 million 5.25% fixed guaranteed notes due 2017.
These bonds have been swapped to US dollars.
The swaps have been accounted for as cash flow hedges with an unrealised gain of US$47 million 2007: US$112 million at 31 December 2008 refer to note 37. d In November 2007, the Group issued guaranteed 30-year notes of US$500 million bearing interest at a fixed rate of 6.9%.
e In May 2008, the Group issued a two-tranche EUR1,350 million guaranteed bond offering, comprising EUR750 million 5.875% fixed guaranteed notes due 2011 and EUR600 million 6.25% fixed guaranteed notes due 2015.
In May 2008, the Group issued a guaranteed bond offering of GBP500 million 7.375% fixed guaranteed notes due 2020.
The swaps have been accounted for as cash flow hedges with an unrealised loss of US$482 million at 31 December 2008 refer to note 37. f The guaranteed senior debentures were assumed by the Group through the acquisition of Falconbridge in 2006.
Pursuant to the terms of the note indentures as amended by supplemental indentures, Xstrata plc has fully and unconditionally guaranteed in favour of the holders of the senior debentures the payment, within 15 days of when due, of all financial liabilities and obligations of Xstrata Canada Incorporated to such holders under the terms of the senior debentures.
g In February 2008, the Group entered into a US$1,000 million commercial paper programme facility, with maturities of up to 12 months.
Interest is payable on the notes at a rate which is based on LIBOR.
h Repaid with proceeds of a drawing from the Syndicated Facility.
A portion of the fixed interest rate of the Unsecured notes and Senior debentures has been swapped to a floating rate.
The swaps have been accounted for as fair value hedges with an unrealised gain of US$671 million 2007: US$102 million gain at 31 December 2008 refer to note 37.
Hedging ineffectiveness during 2008 resulted in other financial income of US$45 million.
There has been no significant impact on income in 2007 as a result of hedge ineffectiveness.
170 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 Preference shares As at 31 December 2008, unsecured preference shares included: Fixed or Effective At floating interest 31 Dec 08 interest Interest At 31 Dec 07 rate % Facility Denomination US$m rate rate % Maturity US$m in 2007 Preference shares series 2 CAD Floating Jun 12 120 5.88 Preference shares series 3 CAD 64 Fixed 4.58 Mar 09 79 4.58 Preference shares series H CAD Fixed 6.50 Mar 08 149 6.50 64 348 Holders of Preference shares series 2 had the right to convert their shares into Preference shares series 3 in March 2009, subject to certain conditions.
The preference shares were assumed by the Group through the acquisition of Falconbridge in 2006.
The Group completed the redemption of all of the outstanding preferred shares, series H for a cash consideration of CAD150 million US$148 million in June 2008.
The Group completed the redemption of all of the outstanding preferred shares, series 2 for a cash consideration of CAD122 million US$120 million in July 2008.
Pursuant to the terms of a guarantee indenture, Xstrata plc has fully and unconditionally guaranteed in favour of the holders of the preference shares the payment, within 15 days of when due, of all financial liabilities and obligations of Xstrata Canada Incorporated to such holders under the terms of the preference shares.
The preference shares are classified within interest-bearing loans and borrowings because in the majority of cases the cumulative dividends must be paid for an indefinite period and or the shares are transferable into a variable number of equity instruments.
Bank loans other unsecured Other bank loans include: Debts of proportionally consolidated joint ventures of US$139 million 2007: US$139 million which bear interest at a rate based on LIBOR plus 175 basis points, repayable in September 2012 and US$122 million 2007: US$163 million which bear interest at a rate based on LIBOR plus 31 basis points, repayable by December 2011: US$ denominated borrowings of US$43 million 2007: US$nil that are subject to floating interest rates based on Canadian Deposit Offering Rate CDOR plus 110 basis points, repayable by January 2009: and ZAR denominated borrowings of US$1 million 2007: US$3 million that are subject to floating interest rates based on Johannesburg interbank acceptance rate JIBAR, repayable by December 2010.
Bank overdrafts unsecured The Group has bank overdrafts that are subject to local and US$ prime floating interest rates in which they have been drawn down.
The majority of the bank overdrafts are denominated in Canadian and US dollars.
Minority interest loans Minority interest loans include US$81 million 2007: US$81 million advanced to Minera Alumbrera Limited to fund operations that are subject to a fixed rate of 7.2% per annum 2007: 7.2% per annum, repayable by May 2012.
Minority interest loan of US$17 million advanced to Resource Pacific that is subject to a floating rate based on the Reserve Bank of Australia cash rate plus 2.0% per annum, no fixed repayment date but expected to be repaid within the next 12 months.
Other loans Other loans include: AUD denominated loans of US$57 million 2007: US$54 million payable to Western Mining Corporation Resources International Limited and Indophil Resources Limited for the Tampakan copper project refer note 7.
The loan is subject to a fixed rate of interest of 4%, payable quarterly with no fixed repayment date and is not payable within 12 months: and Loan of US$6 million from Cantabria Government and Spanish Ministry of Industry & Energy, unsecured and interest free.
Convertible Borrowings US$m 2008 2007 Convertible bond 331 327 331 327 Convertible bonds On 15 August 2003, Xstrata Capital Corporation AVV issued US$600 million of Convertible bonds, due 15 August 2010, convertible at the option of the holder into fully paid Xstrata plc ordinary shares.
The Convertible bonds were guaranteed by the Company and were issued at par and bore a coupon of 3.95% per annum.
On issue, they were convertible at any time after 26 September 2003 at the option of the holder into 61,180,977 ordinary shares in Xstrata plc based on a conversion price of GBP6.10 US$9.81 converted into GBP at a fixed exchange rate per ordinary share, a 39.6% premium to the closing price of Xstrata plcs ordinary shares on 1 August 2003.
During 2006, 64.3% of the US$600 million of convertible bonds was converted by the holders.
Following the conversions that occurred during 2006 and rights issue in October 2006, the remaining number of ordinary shares that could be issued under the bond at 31 December 2006 was 24,516,537 and as a result of the rights issue the conversion price was adjusted to GBP5.44 US$8.75 converted into GBP at a fixed exchange rate.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 171 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29.
Convertible Borrowings continued During 2007, the remainder of the bond was converted at the option of the holder.
As a result of this conversion, 100% of the bond had been converted.
On 6 September 2005, Xstrata Capital Corporation AVV issued a US$375 million Convertible Debenture to Brookfield, due 14 August 2017, convertible at the option of the holder into fully paid Xstrata plc ordinary shares.
The Convertible Debenture was guaranteed by the Company and was issued at par, with a coupon of 4.0% per annum.
On issue it was convertible at any time on or after 14 August 2006 at the option of the holder into 12,100,332 ordinary shares in Xstrata plc based on a conversion price of GBP17.13 US$30.99 converted into GBP at a fixed exchange rate per ordinary share, representing a 35% premium to the closing price of Xstrata plcs ordinary shares on 11 August 2005.
Following the rights issue in October 2006, the total number of ordinary shares that could have been converted was increased to 13,575,432 and the conversion price was adjusted to GBP15.27 US$27.62 converted into GBP at a fixed exchange rate.
On the giving of not less than 30 days notice, the Convertible Debenture could have been called by the Group at par plus accrued interest, at any time after 14 August 2010.
Unless previously converted, redeemed or cancelled, the 2017 Convertible Debenture was redeemable on 14 August 2017 at its principal amount plus unpaid accrued interest.
On 13 October 2006, the Convertible Debenture was cancelled and a 2017 Convertible Bond was issued to the holder of the Convertible Debenture.
The terms of the Convertible Bond are consistent with those of the cancelled Convertible Debenture.
On 16 October 2006, the Financial Services Authority approved the admission to the Official List by way of block listing of 13,575,432 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each to be issued upon conversion of the 2017 Convertible Bond.
The 2017 Convertible Bond is listed on the Professional Securities Market of the London Stock Exchange.
The liability component of the Convertible Bonds is carried at amortised cost based on an effective interest rate of 5.74% per annum.
During 2008, 0.03% of the US$375 million of convertible bonds was converted by the holders refer to note 26.
Following the conversions that occurred during 2008, the remaining number of ordinary shares that could be issued under the bond at 31 December 2008 was 13,571,812.
There were no conversions during 2007.
Derivative Financial Liabilities US$m 2008 2007 Current: At fair value: Commodity cash flow hedges 65 192 Foreign currency cash flow hedges 8 Other commodity derivatives 9 13 Other foreign currency derivatives 120 202 205 Non-current: At fair value: Commodity cash flow hedges 58 Foreign currency cash flow hedges 482 Fair value interest rate swap hedge 6 Other foreign currency derivatives 79 142 Other interest rate swaps 8 569 206 Total 771 411 31.
Other Financial Liabilities US$m 2008 2007 Non-current: At fair value: Loans to joint venture partners 334 195 At amortised cost: Loans to development project partners 349 156 Total 683 351 172 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 Loans to Joint Venture Partners ZAR denominated loans of US$334 million 2007: US$152 million payable to ARM Coal.
The loan is subject to a floating rate of interest based on a dividend calculation with no fixed repayment date and is not callable within 12 months.
ZAR denominated loans of US$nil 2007: US$43 million payable to Kagiso Trust Investments for the Mototolo project in South Africa.
The loan is subject to a floating rate of interest based on a dividend calculation with no fixed repayment date.
Loans to Development Project Partners US dollar denominated loans of US$349 million 2007: US$156 million payable to Socit Minire du Sud Pacifique for the Koniambo nickel project.
The loan is subject to a floating rate of interest based on a dividend calculation with no fixed repayment date and is not payable within 12 months.
Provisions PostShare-based retirement Employee compensation medical Rehabilitation Onerous US$m entitlements plans plans costs contracts Other 2008 At 1 January 414 102 481 1,533 120 169 2,819 Acquisitions 7 12 195 214 Arising during the year 222 163 36 28 50 208 707 Discount unwinding 10 91 8 109 PPE asset adjustment 195 195 Discontinued operations and disposals 8 8 Utilised 158 10 154 165 119 179 785 Unused amounts reversed 6 239 15 15 275 Translation adjustments 59 3 120 56 4 242 At 31 December 430 16 345 1,551 198 194 2,734 Current 282 36 54 125 497 Non-current 148 16 345 1,515 144 69 2,237 430 16 345 1,551 198 194 2,734 PostShare-based retirement Employee compensation medical Rehabilitation Onerous US$m entitlements plans plans costs contracts Other 2007 At 1 January 352 58 413 1,240 42 238 2,343 Acquisitions 15890 113 Arising during the year 228 44 32 123 61 488 Discount unwinding 6 83 2 91 PPE asset adjustment 122 122 Discontinued operations and disposals 6 12 19 37 Utilised 190 27 75 12 86 390 Unused amounts reversed 30 30 Translation adjustments 9 75 32 3 119 At 31 December 414 102 481 1,533 120 169 2,819 Current 2444 96344 Non-current 1701024811,529120 732,475 4141024811,533120 1692,819 Employee entitlements The employee entitlement provisions mainly represent the value of excess leave entitlements allocated over the leave taken by the employees of the Group.
These amounts are expected to be utilised as the employees either take their accrued leave or receive equivalent benefits upon ceasing employment.
Current employee entitlements include excess short-term leave entitlements and the portion of non-current employee entitlements that are expected to be incurred within 12 months.
Non-current entitlements include long service leave entitlements which are payable upon an employee attaining a certain period of service and workers compensation provisions.
For some entitlements, amounts will also be recovered from an independent fund refer to note 19.
The current portion of these costs are expected to be utilised in the next 12 months and the non-current portion of these costs are expected to be utilised over a weighted average life of 12 years 2007: eight years.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 173 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 32.
Provisions continued Share-based compensation plans The Group has granted various share-based compensation plans to certain executives and senior employees that will be cash-settled refer to note 35.
The intrinsic value of the cash-settled share-based compensation plans that had vested at 31 December 2008 was US$6 million 2007: US$86 million.
Post-retirement medical plans The Group operates unfunded post-retirement medical benefit plans in North America and a comparatively smaller plan in South Africa for a number of current and former employees.
Independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method assess the accumulated benefit obligation and annual cost of accrued benefits.
The current portion of these costs are expected to be utilised in the next 12 months and the non-current portion of these costs are expected to be utilised over a weighted average life of 12 years 2007: 13 years refer to note 35.
Rehabilitation costs Rehabilitation provision represents the estimated costs required to provide adequate restoration and rehabilitation upon the completion of mining activities.
These amounts will reverse when such rehabilitation has been performed.
The current portion of these costs are expected to be utilised in the next 12 months and the non-current portion of these costs are expected to be utilised over a weighted average life of 26 years 2007: 25 years refer to note 24.
Onerous contracts Onerous contract provisions represent the restatement of various long-term contracts to their current market value at the acquisition date of subsidiaries.
These provisions are expected to be utilised over a weighted average life of 10 years 2007: seven years.
Other Other includes provisions for litigation of US$60 million 2007: US$79 million and restructuring of US$28 million 2007: US$13 million.
The current portion of these costs are expected to be utilised in the next 12 months and the non-current portion of these costs are expected to be utilised over a weighted average life of two years 2007: three years.
Other Liabilities US$m 2008 2007 Current: Deferred income 35 45 35 45 Non-current: Deferred income 105 78 105 78 34.
Commitments and Contingencies Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has entered into leases for buildings, motor vehicles and sundry plant and equipment.
These leases have an average life of four years 2007: seven years with renewal terms at the option of the lessee at lease payments based on market prices at the time of renewal.
There are no restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases.
Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows: US$m 2008 2007 Within one year 46 42 After one year but not more than five years 102 95 More than five years 28 26 176 163 174 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 Finance lease and hire purchase commitments The Group has entered into finance leases and hire purchase contracts for various items of plant and machinery.
The majority of these leases include a residual balloon payment at the end of the lease term and title passing to the Group.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts together with the future finance charges as at 31 December are as follows: Present Present Undiscounted value of Undiscounted value of minimum minimum minimum minimum payments payments payments payments US$m 2008 2008 2007 2007 Within one year 31 25 27 18 After one year but not more than five years 65 49 100 74 More than five years 54 36 56 40 Total minimum lease payments 150 110 183 132 Less amounts representing finance lease charges 40 51 Present value of minimum lease payments 110 110 132 132 Capital commitments Amounts contracted for but not provided in the financial statements amounted to US$1,701 million 2007: US$1,455 million, including: Xstrata Coal US$52 million for longwall equipment at Oaky, US$34 million for five electric shovels at Cerrejn, US$1 million 2007: US$170 million for the development of the Goedgevonden open cut coal mine, US$6 million 2007: US$53 million for a dragline at the Wondoan project, US$nil 2007: US$53 million for the Wollombi development and US$nil 2007: US$51 million for a coal-handling preparation plant upgrade at Liddell: Xstrata Nickel US$839 million 2007: US$320 million for the Koniambo project and US$5 million 2007: US$78 million for the Nickel Rim South project: and Xstrata Zinc US$27 million 2007: US$109 million for the development of an open cut mine at Mount Isa.
The balance of the other amounts contracted for but not provided relates to various minor commitments around the Group, mainly for the purchase of new property, plant and equipment.
Included in the above is US$195 million 2007: US$350 million representing the Groups share of the capital commitments that have been incurred jointly with other venturers.
Finance leases entered into after 31 December 2008 amounted to US$nil 2007: US$nil.
Guarantees Xstrata Coal Australia has contracted US$492 million 2007: US$588 million for rail take or pay commitments, US$341 million 2007: US$450 million for port take or pay commitments, performance guarantees to customers and suppliers under contracts for supply of coal and services for US$34 million 2007: US$24 million and guarantees to the New South Wales and Queensland Departments for Mineral Resources in respect of various mining leases and the performance thereof US$203 million 2007: US$215 million.
Xstrata Coal South Africa has issued guarantees to the Department of Minerals and Energy to obtain certain prospecting permits of US$52 million 2007: US$70 million and performance guarantees to suppliers of US$6 million 2007: US$8 million.
Xstrata Alloys has issued guarantees to Eskom for power usage and early termination of power usage of US$18million 2007: US$17 million and to the Department of Mineral and Energy Mineral Resources, municipalities and governmental boards in respect of various mining leases and the performance thereof for US$21 million 2007: US$19 million.
Xstrata Copper, Xstrata Zinc and Xstrata Technology Australia have issued performance guarantees to customers for US$27 million 2007: US$53 million and guarantees to the Queensland Departments for Mineral Resources and other government agencies in respect of various mining leases and the performance thereof, environmental bonds and self insurance licences US$161 million 2007: US$105 million.
Xstrata Nickel has issued guarantees for energy contracts of US$95 million 2007: US$153 million.
Xstrata Zinc has issued performance guarantees to the Northern Territory government for an electricity supply and pipeline agreement of US$22 million 2007: US$32 million, and to suppliers of US$17 million 2007: US$nil.
It has provided bank guarantees to the Northern Territory government for rehabilitation costs of US$54 million 2007: US$49 million.
Xstrata Zinc has issued bank guarantees in Spain of US$54 million 2007: US$107 million.
Northfleet has issued bank guarantees to H M Customs and Excise in respect of the transport of Lead Slag for US$1 million 2007: US$nil.
A letter of credit of US$166 million 2007: US$205 million has been given for the pension liabilities of the Groups Canadian operations.
Letters of credit have been issued to the Canadian government for rehabilitation costs of US$40 million 2007: US$38 million.
Included in the above is US$1,097 million 2007: US$1,730 million representing the Groups share of guarantees that have been incurred jointly with other venturers.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 175 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 35.
Employee Benefits Share-based payments The expense recognised for share-based payments during the year is shown in the following table: US$m 2008 2007 Expense arising from equity-settled transactions 245 62 Expense arising from cash-settled transactions 239 44 Total expense arising from share-based payment transactions 6 106 The Group operates a number of share-based payment plans which are outlined below.
With the exception of the AVP that was modified in May 2008 as discussed below, there have been no cancellations or modifications to any of the plans during 2008 or 2007.
Xstrata plc Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP has two elements: i A contingent award of free ordinary shares that vests after three years, subject to, and to the extent that, performance criteria determined at the time of grant have been satisfied: and ii An option to acquire ordinary shares at a specified exercise price after the third anniversary of grant, subject to, and to the extent that, performance criteria determined at the time of grant have been satisfied.
All LTIP awards that vest are subject to the satisfaction of certain performance criteria being met over a three-year performance period.
The 2003 LTIP awards are only subject to the Total Shareholder Return TSR performance criteria.
Half of the options and free share awards granted in 2004 and 2005 are conditional on TSR relative to a peer group, with the remainder conditional on the Groups real cost savings relative to targets set on a stretching scale over the three-year period.
No vesting will occur for below median performance.
For the awards where vesting is conditional on the Groups real cost savings relative to targets set on a stretching scale: 10% of the award will vest for 1% cost savings, 70% for 2% cost savings and all awards for 3% or more cost savings, with straight-line vesting between these points.
No vesting will occur if cost savings are less than 1%.
Real cost savings are measured in relation to operating costs after adjusting for the effects of inflation, excluding depreciation, commodity price-linked costs, effects of currencies on translation of local currency costs and planned life of mine adjustments.
No other features of the LTIP awards are incorporated into the measurement of fair value.
No consideration will be payable on the vesting of an LTIP award of free ordinary shares.
On exercise of an option, a participant will be required to pay an exercise price which is based on the closing market price of an ordinary share seven trading days prior to the date of grant.
Of the below options, 1.9 million 2007: 2.0 million are accounted for as cash-settled share-based awards whilst the remainder of the LTIP awards are equity-settled refer to note 32.
176 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 The movement in the number of free ordinary shares and share options is as follows: Free shares 2008 2008 2007 2007 No WAEP No WAEP 1 1 Outstanding as at 1 January 3,247,747 N A 4,129,365 N A Granted during the year 942,177 N A 977,573 N A Forfeited during the year 48,835 N A 54,491 N A 3 2 Exercised during the year 1,375,891 N A 1,804,700 N A Outstanding as at 31 December 2,765,198 N A 3,247,747 N A Exercisable 31 December N A N A 1 All shares included in this balance have been accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
2 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these awards was GBP23.63.
3 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these awards was GBP36.98.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the free shares outstanding as at 31 December 2008 is 8.2 years 2007: 8.1 years.
The weighted average fair value of free shares granted during the year was US$60.46 2007: US$38.23.
2 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was GBP39.67.
3 All the share options included in this balance have been accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments, except for 65,708 options issued in 2002.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2008: 7.4 years 2007: 7.7 years.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was US$21.39 2007: US$13.93.
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was GBP3.22 to GBP35.36 2007: GBP3.22 to GBP24.00.
The following table lists the inputs to the models used to measure the fair value of equity-settled awards granted: Date of Date of grant grant 2008 2007 Dividend yield % 0.8 1.5 Expected volatility % 36 35 Risk-free interest rate % 4.1 5.1 Earliest exercise date 04 Apr 11 15 Mar 10 Latest exercise date 03 Apr 18 14 Mar 17 Expected exercise date 19 Jan 12 27 Nov 10 Share price at date of grant GBP 37.06 24.25 Exercise price GBP 35.36 24.00 Free share fair value at date of grant GBP 30.33 19.73 Option fair value at date of grant GBP 11.07 6.74 The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historic volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome.
Both the free shares and the equity-settled options are equity-settled plans and the fair value is measured at the date of grant.
The fair value of the cash-settled options is measured at the date of grant and at each reporting date until the liability is settled, using binomial models, taking into account the terms and conditions of the award.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 177 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 35.
Employee Benefits continued Xstrata AG incentive plan With the merger of Xstrata AG into Xstrata plc, Xstrata plc assumed the obligations of Xstrata AG under the scheme with the number of options and exercise price adjusted accordingly.
The share options had a two-year vesting period followed by a three-year exercise period.
The exercise price was the share price at the date of granting of the share options.
There were no other conditions attaching to these options and they could be cash-settled by the holder.
No further options were granted under this incentive plan.
All of the options below were accounted for as cash-settled share-based awards.
The movement in the number of share options are as follows: 2008 2008 2007 2007 No WAEP No WAEP 1 Outstanding as at 1 January 14,320 CHF13.41 2 Exercised during the year 14,320 CHF13.41 Outstanding as at 31 December Exercisable at 31 December 1 All shares included in this balance have been accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
2 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was CHF56.96.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 1 January 2007 was 0.1 years.
No new shares were granted during the year.
Directors service contracts Options were granted to two executive directors pursuant to the terms on which they were recruited.
The options are to be equity-settled.
The exercise price is the share price at the date of granting of the share options.
The final scheme vested in January 2007 and each scheme has an exercise period of seven years.
If the holder ceases to be employed by the Group for any reason, they may exercise any vested options within six months of such cessation, after which the options lapse.
Any unvested options will lapse if the holder is dismissed lawfully under the terms of their contract or if they voluntarily resign except where they have a valid reason to terminate their employment as defined in their employment contract, in which case all unvested options shall immediately vest and become exercisable for a period of six months.
In all other cases, they will remain exercisable for a period of six months.
The movement in the number of share options are as follows: 2008 2008 2007 2007 No WAEP No WAEP Outstanding as at 1 January 1,142,492 GBP4.25 1,242,492 GBP4.36 1 2 Exercised during the year 148,498 GBP5.68 100,000 GBP5.68 Outstanding as at 31 December 993,994 GBP4.03 1,142,492 GBP4.25 Exercisable at 31 December 993,994 GBP4.03 1,142,492 GBP4.25 1 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was GBP41.57.
2 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was GBP27.62.
The above share options have not been accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments as the options were granted on or before 7 November 2002 and have not been subsequently modified.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2008 is 4.2 years 2007: 5.4 years.
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was GBP3.84 to GBP4.22 2007: GBP3.84 to GBP5.68.
Deferred bonus As detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 98 to 107, the maximum bonus payable under the Bonus Plan for executive directors and the members of the Executive Committee is 300% of salary.
Bonuses are payable in three tranches as follows: the maximum bonus, which any one participant is eligible to receive in cash, will be limited to 100% of the individuals base salary: any additional bonus up to a further 100% of base salary will be deferred for a period of one year: and any remaining bonus will be deferred for a period of two years.
The deferred elements will take the form of awards of Xstrata shares conditional on the participant remaining in employment throughout the deferral period.
The number of shares awarded will be determined by reference to the market value of the shares at the date concurrent awards under the LTIP are made.
The deferred elements have been treated as an equity-settled share-based payment in accordance with IFRS 2.
In 2005 the Xstrata Remuneration Committee resolved that during the bonus deferral period dividend equivalents would accrue in relation to the deferral, to be delivered at the end of the deferral period and subject to the deferral award vesting.
As dividend equivalents are receivable on the deferred amounts, the fair value of the deferral is technically equal to the value of the bonuses deferred.
178 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 The following deferred bonus awards have been made: 2008 2007 2006 Market value of deferred bonus award US$m 10 16 13 Number of shares purchased 242,702 291,585 At the date of signing the financial statements, the shares were yet to be purchased in the market.
Directors Added Value Plan AVP The AVP is a long-term incentive and retention plan for the Chief Executive which rewards outperformance in creating additional long-term shareholder value over the value created by Xstrata plcs peer companies and aligns interests with shareholders by means of share ownership.
Performance is assessed over periods of three years and five years from the date of award of each cycle and is based upon the growth in the Companys TSR over the relevant performance period relative to an index of global mining companies, which form the Xstrata TSR Index.
A description of the performance requirements and the vesting schedule of the plan are detailed within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 98 to 107.
The first cycle of the AVP began on 9 May 2005, the second began on 10 March 2006, the third began on 15 March 2007 and the fourth began on 26 March 2008.
The AVP will terminate on 9 May 2010, after which no further awards will be granted.
For the 2008 plan cycle, the market capitalisation on 26 March 2008 was US$76.4 billion, the Participation Percentage was equal to 0.5% and the share price at the measurement date was US$70.50.
For the 2007 plan cycle, the market capitalisation on 15 March 2007 was US$45.2 billion, the Participation Percentage was equal to 0.3% and the share price at the measurement date was US$46.77.
For the 2006 plan cycle, the market capitalisation on 10 March 2006 was US$18.6 billion, the Participation Percentage was equal to 0.3% and the share price at the measurement date was US$29.39.
For the 2005 plan cycle, the market capitalisation on 9 May 2005 was US$11.4 billion, the Participation Percentage was equal to 0.5% and the share price at the measurement date was US$18.00.
On 6 May 2008, amendments to the rules of the AVP, as outlined in the Directors Remuneration Report in the 2007 Annual Report on page 126, were approved at the Xstrata Annual General Meeting.
In May 2008, 50% of the interim award of the 2005 AVP cycle was cash-settled as detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 98 to 107.
The remaining 50% of the interim award of the 2005 AVP cycle is deferred in equal portions for one and two years and its value moves in accordance with the Companys share price.
At 31 December 2008, the fair value of this deferred award was US$13 million.
Under IFRS 2, at the grant date of 9 May 2005, the fair value of any potential award for the 2005 plan was US$7 million, using a Monte Carlo simulation model to incorporate the market-based features of the plan.
At the grant date of 10 March 2006, the fair value of any potential award for the 2006 plan was US$7 million: at the grant date of 15 March 2007, the fair value of any potential award for the 2007 plan was US$19 million: and the fair value of any potential award of the 2008 share-based payment was US$120 million, estimated at the grant date of 26 March 2008, using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
At current performance, no payment would be made under the 2006, 2007 or 2008 AVP plans.
During the year, it was determined that the AVP should be accounted for as a cash-settled share-based payment to reflect the expected form of settlement.
Accordingly, a provision was recognised based on the fair value of each award adjusted for the vesting period yet to lapse using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
At 31 December 2008, the fair value of all unvested AVP awards was US$14 million and the total provision held at 31 December 2008 for the AVP was US$10 million refer to note 32.
The following table lists the inputs to the models used to measure the fair value of the AVP award granted: 2008 2007 Xstrata Share Xstrata Share 1 1 Xstrata plc Indices Xstrata plc Indices 2 2 Dividend yield % N A N A N A N A Expected volatility to interim vesting % 40 31 N A N A Expected volatility to final vesting % 37 28 38 25 Risk-free interest rate to interim vesting % 4.1 4.1 N A N A Risk-free interest rate to final vesting % 4.2 4.2 5.2 5.2 Third anniversary of start of cycle 26 March 2011 26 March 2011 15 March 2010 15 March 2010 Fourth anniversary of start of cycle 26 March 2012 26 March 2012 15 March 2011 15 March 2011 Fifth anniversary of start of cycle 26 March 2013 26 March 2013 15 March 2012 15 March 2012 Sixth anniversary of start of cycle 26 March 2014 26 March 2014 N A N A 1 There are two Xstrata Share Indices used within the valuation model: one is a market capitalisation weighted TSR index comprising 14 global mining firms 2007: 15 global mining firms considered to be Xstratas key competitors for both financial and human capital.
The other is a market capitalisation price index comprising the same global mining firm constituents.
2 When simulating the Xstrata Price Index, a dividend yield is included to account for the suppressing impact that a dividend payment has on the constituent share prices.
For the simulation of Xstratas TSR and the Index TSR a dividend yield is not required.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 179 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 35.
Employee Benefits continued The following table lists the ranges of inputs to the models used to measure the fair value of each unvested cycle of the AVP awards amended on 6 May 2008: Xstrata Share 1 Xstrata plc Indices 2 Dividend yield % N A N A Expected volatility to interim vesting % 42 49 31 Expected volatility to final vesting % 38 44 28 Risk-free interest rate to interim vesting % 4.4 4.5 4.1 Risk-free interest rate to final vesting % 4.4 4.5 4.2 1 There are two Xstrata Share Indices used within the valuation model: one is a market capitalisation weighted TSR index comprising relevant global mining firms who are considered to be Xstratas key competitors for both financial and human capital at the commencement of each cycle.
For the simulation of Xstratas TSR and the TSR Index a dividend yield is not required.
The AVP is not an award over a fixed number of shares.
Pensions and Other Post-employment Benefit Plans The net expense recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 December: US$m 2008 2007 Defined benefit pension plans 39 14 Defined contribution pension plans 109 110 Post-retirement medical plans 40 32 188 156 Defined Contribution Pension Plans The Group participates in a number of defined contribution pension plans and industry-wide schemes covering the majority of its employees.
The assets are held separately from those of the Group and are generally invested with insurance companies and regulated by local legislation.
Post-retirement Medical Plans The Group participates in a number of post-retirement medical benefits.
All material post-retirement medical benefit liabilities are in North America with smaller exposures in South Africa.
Independent qualified actuaries assess the accumulated benefit obligation and annual cost of accrued benefits using the projected unit credit method.
The actuaries have updated the valuations to 31 December 2008.
Defined Benefit Pension Plans The Group contributes to defined benefit pension plans for a number of its employees.
Independent professionally qualified actuaries assess the pension costs and funding of these plans using the projected unit method.
All significant pension assets and liabilities are in North America.
The following tables summarise the components of the net expense recognised in cost of sales in the income statement and the funded status and amounts recognised in the balance sheet for the defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement medical plans.
The weighted average principal economic assumptions used to determine the actuarial values are as follows: PostPostPension retirement Pension retirement plans medical plans plans medical plans 2008 2008 2007 2007 Rate of salary increases 3.1% 3.8% Rate of pension increases 2.7% 3.2% Expected rate of return on plan assets: Equities 9.1% 9.1% Bonds 5.2% 4.6% Total 6.5% 6.9% Discount rate 7.3% 7.4% 5.6% 5.7% Inflation rate 2.6% 2.6% 2.5% 2.6% Rate of medical cost increases 8.0% 9.0% A one percentage point change in the assumed rate of increase in healthcare costs would have the following impact: Increase Decrease Increase Decrease US$m 2008 2008 2007 2007 Effect on the current service cost and interest cost 54 65 Effect on the defined benefit obligation 38 31 57 47 180 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 The pension plan mortality rate used at 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007 was UP-94 for North American pension and post-retirement medical plans.
These rates refer to published projected mortality tables by actuarial bodies in North America and take into account the assumed increases in the life expectancy and are calculated for both current and future pensioners.
There are no significant differences in these rates between schemes.
The average life expectancy in the pension plans was 85 years 2007: 85 years and in the medical plans was 82 years 2007: 82 years as at 31 December 2008.
The assets and liabilities of the schemes and the amounts recognised in the Group balance sheet at 31 December are as follows: PostPostPension retirement Pension retirement plans medical plans plans medical plans US$m 2008 2008 2007 2007 Present value of benefit obligations 1,994 345 2,721 481 Assets at fair value 1,677 2,495 Net liability 317 345 226 481 Net liability as at 31 December represented by: Pension deficits provisions 320 345 231 481 Pension assets 3 5 Net liability 317 345 226 481 Historical adjustments are as follows: US$m 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Defined benefit obligation 1,994 2,721 2,604 106 110 Plan assets 1,677 2,495 2,393 85 85 Net deficit 317 226 211 21 25 Experience gain loss adjustments on plan liabilities 74 69 4 8 1 Experience gain loss adjustments on plan assets 480 126 96 4 1 The reconciliation of the net liability movement during the year in the net pension and post-retirement medical plan liability before allowance of deferred tax are as follows: PostPostPension retirement Pension retirement plans medical plans plans medical plans US$m 2008 2008 2007 2007 Net liability as at 1 January 226 481 211 413 Discontinued operations and disposals 19 12 Total benefit expense 39 40 14 32 Actuarial gains losses 188 76 104 6 Employer contributions 75 22 116 21 Translation adjustments 61 78 32 75 Net liability as at 31 December 317 345 226 481 Contributions of US$52 million in 2009, US$58 million in 2010, US$52 million in 2011 and US$50 million in 2012 and US$38 million in 2013 are being made in order to eliminate the deficiency in the North America plans.
The total contributions to the defined benefit pension plans in 2009 including these further contributions are US$74 million.
The components of benefit income expense recognised in the income statement during the year are as follows: PostPostPension retirement Pension retirement plans medical plans plans medical plans US$m 2008 2008 2007 2007 Service cost 53 14 43 9 Interest cost 139 26 133 23 Expected return on plan assets net of expected expenses 153 162 39 40 14 32 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 181 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 35.
Employee Benefits continued The components of actuarial gains losses recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expenses during the year are as follows: PostPostPension retirement Pension retirement plans medical plans plans medical plans US$m 2008 2008 2007 2007 Expected return on plan assets net of expected expenses 153 162 Actual return on plan assets 327 36 Actual return less expected return on plan assets 480 126 Actuarial gain loss on obligations 74 69 12 Change of assumptions 366 76 91 6 188 76 104 6 The cumulative amount of net actuarial losses recognised in the statement of recognised income and expenses is US$150 million 2007: loss US$38 million.
The reconciliation of the present value of benefit obligations and fair value of plan asset movements during the year are as follows: PostPostPension retirement Pension retirement plans medical plans plans medical plans US$m 2008 2008 2007 2007 Benefit obligation present value as at 1 January 2,721 481 2,604 413 Discontinued operations and disposals 255 12 Current service cost 53 14 43 9 Interest cost 139 26 133 23 Employee contributions 1 1 Actuarial gains losses 74 69 12 Actual benefit payments 162 22 165 21 Change of assumptions 366 76 91 6 Translation adjustments 466 78 382 75 Benefit obligation present value as at 31 December 1,994 345 2,721 481 Plan assets fair value as at 1 January 2,495 2,393 Discontinued operations and disposals 236 Actual return on plan assets 327 36 Company contributions 75 116 Employee contributions 1 1 Benefits paid from fund 162 165 Translation adjustments 405 350 Plan assets fair value as at 31 December 1,677 2,495 Net liability as at 31 December 317 345 226 481 Net liability as at 1 January 226 481 211 413 The defined benefit obligation present value included above for unfunded pension plans at 31 December 2008 was US$6 million 2007: US$5 million.
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of the fair value of total plan assets are as follows: Pension Pension plans plans 2008 2007 Equities 35% 49% Bonds 62% 49% Other 3% 2% Included in equities is US$nil 2007: US$nil of Xstrata plc shares.
The overall expected rate of return on assets is determined based on the market value weighted expected return applicable to the underlying asset category.
Related Parties Country of % of ordinary shares Name incorporation Principal activities held & voting rights Principal Subsidiaries Xstrata Coal Abelshore Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% AZSA Holdings Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100% Coalex Holdings Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 78% Cook Resources Mining Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Cumnock No.
1 Colliery Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Enex Foydell Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Enex Liddell Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Enex Oakbridge Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Enex Togara Pty Limited Australia Coal project 100% Jonsha Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Oakbridge Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 78% Oceanic Coal Australia Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Ravensworth Operations Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Resource Pacific Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 77.8% Saxonvale Coal Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 78% Tahmoor Coal Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% The Wallerawang Collieries Limited Australia Coal operations 74.1% Ulan Coal Mines Limited Australia Coal operations 90% Ulan Power Company Pty Limited Australia Feasibility projects 100% United Collieries Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 95% Xstrata Coal Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100% Xstrata Coal Corporate Pty Limited Australia Management company 100% Xstrata Coal Holdings Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100% Xstrata Coal Investments Australia Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100% Xstrata Coal Queensland Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Xstrata Mangoola Pty Limited Australia Coal Project 100% Xstrata Newpac Pty Limited Australia Investment company 100% Xstrata Coal Canada Limited Canada Holding company 100% Xstrata Coal Donkin Limited Canada Coal project 100% Xstrata Cerrejn Limited Bermuda Coal operations 100% Xstrata Coal South America Limited Bermuda Holding company 100% Tavistock Collieries Pty Limited South Africa Coal operations 100% Tironimus AG Switzerland Holding company 100% Xstrata Coal Marketing AG Switzerland Marketing & Trading 100% Xstrata Alloys Xstrata South Africa Pty Limited South Africa Holding company, Coal, Chrome, 100% Platinum & Vanadium operations Eland Platinum Holdings Limited South Africa Platinum operation 74% Char Technology Pty Limited South Africa Char operation 100% African Fine Carbon Pty Limited South Africa Char operation 100% African Carbon Producers Pty Limited South Africa Char operation 100% Xstrata Copper Ernest Henry Mining Pty Limited Australia Copper operation 100% Minera Alumbrera Limited Antigua Copper operation 50% Mount Isa Mines Limited Australia Copper, Lead and Zinc operations 100% Xstrata South America Limited Cayman Holding company 100% Xstrata Tintaya S. A. Peru Holding company 100% Compania Minera Xstrata Lomas Bayas Chile Copper operations 100% Xstrata Inversiones Chile Limitada Chile Holding company 100% Xstrata Copper Chile S. A. Chile Copper smelter 100% Xstrata Commodities Middle East DMCC UAE Marketing 100% Xstrata Recycling Inc. USA Copper recycling 100% Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 183 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 36.
Related Parties continued Country of % of ordinary shares Name incorporation Principal activities held & voting rights Xstrata Nickel Xstrata International Investments Limited Bermuda Holding company 100% Xstrata Nickel International Limited Barbados Nickel feeds acquisition 100% Falconbridge Dominicana C por A Dom.
Republic Ferronickel operation 85% Xstrata Nickel Marketing S. A. Belgium Nickel marketing 100% Xstrata Nikkelverk Aktieselskap AS Norway Nickel refinery 100% Xstrata Nickel International S. A. Belgium Nickel procurement agent 100% Xstrata Nickel Australasia Pty Ltd Australia Nickel operation 100% Xstrata Brasil Exploracao Mineral Ltda Brazil Exploration 100% Koniambo Nickel SAS New Caledonia Ferronickel Project 49% Xstrata Zinc Asturiana fide Zinc SA Spain Zinc smelter 100% Britannia Refined Metals Limited UK Lead smelter 100% McArthur River Mining Pty Limited Australia Zinc operations 100% Xstrata Zinc GmbH Germany Zinc smelter 100% Xstrata Technology Xstrata Technology Pty Limited Australia Technology operations 100% MIM Process Technology South Africa Pty Limited South Africa Technology operations 100% Other Xstrata Schweiz AG Switzerland Holding company 100% Xstrata Capital Corporation AVV Aruba Finance company 100% Xstrata Finance Dubai Limited UAE Finance company 100% Xstrata Holdings Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100% Xstrata Queensland Limited Australia Holding company 100% Xstrata Canada Corporation Canada Copper, Nickel and Zinc operations 100% Xstrata Finance Canada Limited Canada Finance company 100% Noranda Finance Inc. USA Finance company 100% Xstrata Canada Inc. Canada Holding company 100% Alberta Limited Canada Holding Company 100% 184 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 Principal place of operations country of Effective Name incorporation Principal activities interest held Principal Joint Ventures Xstrata Coal Bulga Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 68.25% Cerrejn Joint Venture Colombia Coal operations 33.33% Cumnock Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 90% Donkin Joint Venture Canada Coal project 75% Goedgevonden Joint Venture South Africa Coal operations 73.99% Foybrook Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 67.5% Liddell Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 67.5% Macquarie Coal Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 80% Newlands, Collinsville, Abbot Point Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 55% Newpac Coal Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 70% Oaky Creek Coal Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 55% Rolleston Pentland Wandoan Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 75% Togara North Joint Venture Australia Coal project 33.3% Ulan Coal Mines Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 90% United Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 95% Xstrata Alloys Merafe Pooling and Sharing Venture South Africa Chrome operations 79.5% Mototolo Joint Venture South Africa Platinum operations 37% Ngazana Consortium Pooling and Sharing Venture South Africa Platinum operations 74% Xstrata Copper Antamina Joint Venture Peru Copper & Zinc operations 33.75% Collahuasi Joint Venture Chile Copper operations 44% Xstrata Nickel Kabanga Joint Venture Tanzania Nickel project 50% Principal Associates Xstrata Alloys Lonmin plc UK Platinum operations 24.9% Xstrata Coal ARM Coal Pty Limited South Africa Coal operations 49% Newcastle Coal Shippers Pty Limited Australia Coal terminal 31% Port Kembla Coal Terminal Limited Australia Coal terminal 35.6% Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Limited South Africa Coal terminal 20.9% Xstrata Zinc Noranda Income Fund Canada Zinc refinery 25% This investment is treated as a subsidiary as the Group is entitled to two of the four Board positions of Minera Alumbrera Limited, including the Chairman as it is the manager of the copper operation.
The Chairman has the casting vote where any vote is split equally between the four Board positions, however, in a limited number of situations the vote must be unanimous, including transactions with related parties.
The Group has fide facto control of Koniambo Nickel SAS as a result of its industry expertise and the ability to control the operating and financing decisions of the Joint Venture.
Directly held by the parent company.
40% held by the parent company.
90% held by the parent company.
The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of these in the above list.
All entities operate mainly in the country of incorporation and these interests are held indirectly by the parent company unless otherwise indicated.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 185 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 36.
Related Parties continued During the year, the Group entered into the following transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with related parties: Treatment Treatment Agency & Interest & & refining & refining other other Amounts Amounts US$m Sales Purchases charges revenue charges revenue payable receivable Glencore International AG 2008 9,282 809218199 147247 2007 8,713 1,2179026792 240467 Joint venture entities 2008 3346 125 2007 4278 360329 Associates 2008 436 201113 123 2007 792 202123 220 Includes share of joint ventures.
No provision for doubtful debts has been raised in respect of transactions with related parties.
Included in the transactions with Glencore International AG Glencore are US$1,136 million 2007: US$484 million of back-to-back sales whereby the title to the goods has passed to Glencore but they are then on-sold to customers at the same sales price that the Group received.
Amounts payable and receivable, are included in Trade and other receivables refer to note 19 and in Trade and other payables refer to note 27, are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
Glencore International AG Substantial shareholder As at 31 December 2008, Glencore owned 34.4% 2007: 34.7% of the issued share capital of the Company representing 336,801,333 ordinary shares 2007: 336,801,333 ordinary shares.
Chrome Xstrata Alloys entered into a ferrochrome marketing agreement with Glencore on 21 April 1995, appointing Glencore as its exclusive worldwide marketing agent for the sale of Xstrata Alloys entire production of ferrochrome other than ferrochrome sold into the US, Canada and certain Asian countries.
The agreement continues for as long as Xstrata Alloys produces ferrochrome.
Glencore is obliged to use its best endeavours to arrange sales at prevailing market rates subject to initial agreement and approval by Xstrata Alloys prior to effecting the sale.
Glencore assists Xstrata Alloys in negotiating sales contracts with third parties.
Glencore is entitled to receive an agency fee of 3.5% on FOB sales revenues and an additional fee of 0.75% on FOB sales revenues for assuming the risk of non-payment by customers on this material.
Glencore assumes 60% of the risk of non-payment by customers in relation to ferrochrome sales.
If at any time Xstrata Alloys notifies Glencore that it is able to find purchasers for its production at prices higher than those generally obtainable by Glencore, Xstrata Alloys may, unless Glencore is able to obtain similar prices, sell its products in the market.
Glencore is nevertheless entitled to an agency fee of 3.5% of FOB sales revenue in respect of such sales.
Glencore is also entitled to receive a US$50,000 monthly fee in connection with market analysis and certain administrative tasks it performs for Xstrata Alloys.
Ferrochrome sold into the US and Canada is distributed by Glencore Ltd and Glencore Canada Inc respectively, under two distribution agreements.
These agreements continue indefinitely, with both parties having the right to terminate the agreement at 12 months notice.
The percentage of distribution fees payable by the Group in respect of ferrochrome sold under the distribution agreement is substantially the same as the commission paid in respect of ferrochrome sold under the marketing agreement.
Mitsui & Co. Ltd is the appointed distributing agent for ferrochrome sales into China, Japan and South Korea up to a maximum of 105,000 tonnes per annum.
A change in distributing agent for sales into these countries must be done with the consent of Glencore.
Vanadium In December 1997, the Group, entered into a 20-year marketing agreement with Glencore in respect of Rhovans and Vantechs closed in 2004 entire production of vanadium other than vanadium sold into the US and Canada.
Glencore is obliged to use its best endeavours to arrange sales of vanadium pentoxide and ferrovanadium to customers at prevailing market rates subject to initial agreement and approval by Xstrata Alloys prior to affecting the sale.
Xstrata Alloys is obliged to pay to Glencore an agency fee of 3.5% on FOB sales revenues and an additional fee of 1.5% on FOB sales revenues for assuming the risk of non-payment by customers on this material.
Glencore assumes 100% of the risk of non-payment by customers in relation to vanadium sales.
Glencore is nevertheless entitled to the 3.5% agency fees described above in respect of such sales.
Vanadium pentoxide and ferrovanadium sold into the US and Canada is distributed by Glencore Ltd and Glencore Canada Inc respectively, under two distribution agreements.
The distribution agreements have the same term as the marketing agreement and consequently, the percentage of distribution fees payable by the Group in respect of vanadium pentoxide and ferrovanadium is substantially the same as the commission paid in respect of vanadium pentoxide and ferrovanadium sold under the marketing agreement.
186 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 Coal In 2002, the Group entered into a 20-year market advisory agreement with Glencore with fee reviews at the end of every fifth year of the agreement.
Pursuant to this agreement, Glencore acts as the Groups market advisor with respect to its export production of coal other than for Xstrata Coals share of production from the Cerrejn thermal coal operation in Colombia.
The fee payable to Glencore is US$0.50 per attributable tonne of coal exported by the Group from Australia or South Africa.
The first five-year fee review has not yet been finalised and both parties are currently operating under the original terms of the agreement.
In January 1995, Cumnock entered into a sales and marketing agreement with Glencore, for a commission of US$0.75 per tonne for all coal sold by Cumnock.
Pursuant to this agreement, Glencore provides sales and marketing services to Cumnock and Cumnock appoints Glencore as its agent to market coal.
On 7 May 2008, Cumnock gave six months notice that it wished to terminate this agreement.
Cumnock export tonnes now fall within the MAA for the remainder of the coal Group.
In 2008, the Group entered into market standard forward commodity price derivatives for 1,965,000 tonnes 2007: 60,000 tonnes with Glencore as counterparty.
During the year ended 31 December 2008, 105,000 tonnes at an average FOB price of US$64.59 per tonne were delivered 2007: nil.
At 31 December 2008, 1,920,000 tonnes 2007: 60,000 tonnes were contracted with Glencore for delivery in 2009.
These derivatives are on arms-length terms and conditions and are included within derivative financial assets and liabilities refer to notes 23, 30 and 37.
During the year ended 31 December 2008, 142,414 tonnes were borrowed from Glencore 2007: 256,733 tonnes and 342,620 tonnes were transferred back to Glencore 2007: 281,328 tonnes with nil tonnes owed to Glencore at 31 December 2008 2007: 200,206 tonnes on arms length terms and conditions.
In 2006, the Group entered into a three-year fuel supply agreement with Glencore to supply diesel fuels to coal mines in New South Wales and Queensland.
Under this supply agreement, US$116 million 2007: US$69 million worth of fuel was delivered during the year ended 31 December 2008.
The supply agreement is on arms-length terms and prices change monthly according to the world market price per barrel US$ BBL.
The contract expires March 2009 and Xstrata Coal is in current negotiations with Glencore to determine if the contract will be renegotiated or put forward for tender.
In 2005, Cerrejn entered into a five-year fuel supply agreement which expires in February 2010 with Glencore to supply diesel fuels.
The Groups share of the fuel purchases for the year ended 31 December 2008 was US$92 million 2007: US$48 million.
The supply agreement is on armslength terms and prices change for each shipment according to the world market price per barrel US$ BBL.
All coal purchases and sales with Glencore are on arms-length terms and conditions.
Zinc On 1 January 2007, Xstrata Zinc renewed a service agreement for a period of three years with Glencore the Xstrata Zinc Service Agreement, under the terms of which Glencore provides advice and assistance with respect to pricing and structural issues regarding hedging and the optimisation of internal flows of raw materials.
The fees to be paid by Asturiana under the Asturiana Service Agreement are US$2 million per annum.
Xstrata Zinc entered into an evergreen agreement with Glencore in 2004 to purchase 380,000 dmt 2007: 380,000 dmt per annum of zinc concentrate.
Treatment charges in respect of such purchases are negotiated annually on arms-length terms and conditions.
This agreement has been terminated in 2008.
In 2008, Xstrata Zinc San Juan fide Nieva and Nordenham agreed to supply Glencore with 210,000 tonnes 2007: 217,500 tonnes of SHG zinc slabs or CGG ingots based on market FOB CPT prices plus the respective market premium.
In 2008, Xstrata Zinc McArthur River supplied Glencore with 281,600 wmt of zinc concentrate and has an agreement to supply this amount each year until 31 December 2009, after which it will become evergreen in nature.
Treatment charges are negotiated annually on arms-length terms and conditions.
In 2008, Xstrata Zinc Mount Isa had three agreements with Glencore for the supply of zinc concentrate.
Two agreements have an initial term until 31 December 2008 after which they will become evergreen in nature.
The first agreement is to supply 90,000 wmt per annum.
The second agreement is to supply 80,000 wmt to 100,000 wmt per annum for the purpose of swapping Mount Isa concentrate in exchange for the same volume to be delivered to Xstratas European smelters at equivalent terms.
A third agreement was established to supply an additional 30,000 wmt in 2008 only for the purpose of swapping Mount Isa concentrate in exchange for the same volume to be delivered to Xstratas European smelters at equivalent terms.
Further to the aforementioned three agreements, an additional 64,000 wmt have been sold to Glencore on a spot basis at terms ruling in the market.
Xstrata Zinc Canada has agreements to supply Glencore with 12,510 tonnes of SHG zinc slabs.
In addition to this, Xstrata Zinc Canada has agreements to supply Glencore with 14,000 tonnes of SHG zinc slabs and Jumbos.
All agreements are based on market delivery duty paid plus the respective market premium during 2008.
During 2008, there have been spot sales of SHG and HG zinc slabs, and Jumbos for 28,635 tonnes 2007: 12,159 tonnes.
Xstrata Zinc has a frame contract to sell Glencore surplus Brunswick lead concentrate amounting 14,000 wmt for 2008.
Xstrata Zinc Canada has also sold to Glencore on a spot basis 200,000 wmt of zinc concentrates of its various sources at terms prevailing in the market.
All purchase and sales transactions with Glencore are on arms-length terms and conditions.
Copper Xstrata Copper has entered into a service agreement with Glencore for a three-year period effective from 1 January 2007 and evergreen thereafter with a 12-month cancellation notice for the supply of advice, support and assistance with regard to its marketing and hedging activities.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 187 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 36.
Related Parties continued Xstrata Copper North Queensland has entered into a sales agreement with Glencore in respect of the total available export allocation of copper cathode.
The sales terms for the copper cathode are the LME price plus a range of premiums based on Codelco North Asian CIF Liner Terms plus applicable freight parity by destination.
This agreement was terminated effective 31 December 2008.
Copper cathode sales agreements were entered into between Xstrata Copper Canada Xstrata Copper North Chile Xstrata Commodities Middle East and Glencore for the period 1 January to 31 December 2008.
All sales are based on either spot or benchmark terms in accordance with prevailing market conditions.
Xstrata Copper Minera Alumbrera Limited has entered into a five-year frame contract with Glencore on an evergreen basis.
The sales terms for the copper concentrate are negotiated annually on arms-length terms and conditions.
Minera Alumbrera Limited on occasion sells concentrate to Glencore at prevailing spot market prices.
Copper concentrate purchase and sales agreements were entered into between Xstrata Copper Canada and Glencore for the period 1 January to 31 December 2008, at prevailing market terms.
Copper concentrate purchase agreements were entered into between Xstrata Copper North Chile and Glencore for a four-year frame contract commencing 1 January 2007.
All purchases are based on benchmark terms in accordance with prevailing market conditions.
Copper concentrate sales agreements were entered into between Xstrata Copper Tintaya and Glencore for the period 1 January to 31 December 2008.
Sales agreements were also entered into between Xstrata Commodities Middle East and Glencore on copper concentrates, for a three-year frame contract starting 1 January 2007 based on either spot or benchmark terms in accordance with prevailing market conditions.
Xstrata Copper North Queensland has entered into a sales agreement with Glencore for copper concentrate for a three-year period effective from 1 June 2008 and evergreen thereafter.
The sales terms for the copper concentrate are based on market prices less agreed metal content deductions, treatment and refining charges.
The treatment and refining charges comprise both an annual benchmark and spot component.
All sales transactions with Glencore are on arms-length terms and conditions.
Nickel In 2004, Xstrata Nickel entered into two agreements with Glencore for the treatment of approximately 2,000 tonnes per annum of white alloy raw material feed to the Nikkelverk refinery in Norway and the Sudbury smelter in Canada.
The contracts include both a metal purchase and a metal return component.
The term of the contracts is to the end of 2009, continuing indefinitely thereafter unless terminated by either party with six months notice given not earlier than 1 July 2009.
Treatment and refining charges to Glencore are subject to price participation adjustments based on prevailing market prices.
Xstrata Nickel has a purchase agreement with Glencore for a one-time delivery in early 2009 of approximately 200 wmt of nickel cobalt mixed sulphide feed to the Nikkelverk refinery.
Pricing terms are based on prevailing market rates.
In March 2007, Xstrata Nickel entered into sole distributorship agreements with Glencore, for its nickel, cobalt and ferronickel production.
These agreements continue until 31 December 2012 and are automatically renewed for successive three-year periods unless terminated by either party with not less than 12 months notice prior to the end of the original term or any renewal terms, or unless Xstrata Nickel permanently ceases production of these metals.
Xstrata Nickel, at its sole discretion, may cease, suspend or reduce production at any time.
Glencore is obliged to distribute the products with all due care and diligence and shall cultivate and maintain good relations with purchasers and potential purchasers in accordance with sound commercial principles and taking into account Xstrata Nickels business principles.
All sales terms and conditions are set on an arms-length basis.
For nickel and cobalt sales, the price basis is the month following the month of delivery.
For ferronickel sales, the price basis is the quotational period provided for in customer contracts.
Accordingly, provisionally priced nickel, cobalt and ferronickel revenues are subject to final price adjustments due to future price changes.
During 2008, Xstrata Nickel sold to Glencore 89,567 tonnes of nickel 2007: 71,150 tonnes, 3,137 tonnes of cobalt 2007: 2,708 tonnes and 19,847 tonnes of ferronickel 2007: 24,212 tonnes.
Included in 2007 was a one-off sale of approximately 5,300 tonnes of nickel, 400 tonnes of cobalt and 1,300 tonnes of ferronickel to Glencore at the inception of the agreement, resulting in a contribution to revenue of US$354 million.
In addition, Glencore prepays monthly to Xstrata Nickel in two equal instalments 100% of the value of the months planned production.
The prepayment balance as at 31 December 2008 amounted to US$54 million 2007: US$166 million.
Technology In 2006, Xstrata Technology was contracted to install a copper ISASMELT furnace, a lead ISASMELT furnace and an IsaProcess copper refinery at Kazzinc, a Glencore subsidiary for US$99 million.
The project commenced in May 2006 and is due to be commissioned by December 2009.
This transaction with Kazzinc is on arms-length terms and conditions.
Associates Platinum The Group acquired 24.9% of Lonmin PLC shares on 6 Oct 2008 and equity accounts this investment as an associate.
During 2008, a net impairment of US$34 million was taken on this investment directly to the income statement.
Coal Xstrata Coal has a number of investments in export coal terminals allowing it to export coal into overseas markets.
Xstrata Coal South Africa holds a 20.9% 2007: 20.9% interest in Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Ltd RBCT, a company that operates the coal terminal in Richards Bay, South Africa.
Xstrata Coal South Africa reimburses RBCT for its share of operating and capital expenditure.
Xstrata Coal Australia has a 35.6% 2007: 35.6% interest in Port Kembla Coal Terminal Limited and a 31% 2007: 31% interest in Newcastle Coal Shippers Pty Limited.
Xstrata Coal Australia reimburses these coal terminals for its share of coal loading and handling charges.
188 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 Zinc The Group has a 25% economic and voting interest in the Noranda Income Fund NIF, which owns a zinc refinery in , Quebec.
The Groups interest in the NIF are held as ordinary units of the partnership, which are subordinate to the priority units in respect of cash distributions in any month until 3 May 2017.
In addition, the Group has entered into a supply and processing agreement that continues until 2 May 2017 and is obligated to sell to the NIF up to 550,000 tonnes of zinc concentrate per year.
The NIF pays the Group a concentrate price, based on the price of zinc metal on the London Metal Exchange, for the payable zinc metal contained in the concentrate less a processing fee of US$0.35205 per pound 2007: US$0.3446 per pound of such payable zinc metal at 31 December 2008.
Joint venture entities Coal 1 Xstrata Coal has a 33 3% interest in the Cerrejn thermal coal operation in Colombia.
All purchase terms and conditions are set on an armslength basis.
Copper Xstrata Copper has a 44% interest in the Collahuasi joint venture in Chile.
The Collahuasi joint venture has fixed term contracts for the sale of copper concentrate to Xstrata Copper for 160,000 dmt per year expiring in 2009 and for 120,000 dmt per year expiring in 2014.
The treatment and refining charges are based on benchmark terms in accordance with the prevailing market.
Xstrata Copper has a 33.75% interest in the Antamina joint venture in Peru.
The Antamina joint venture has fixed term contracts for the sale of copper concentrate to Xstrata Copper for 170,000 dmt per year expiring in 2013.
All other purchases between the joint venture entities and the Group are set on an arms-length basis based on either spot or benchmark terms in accordance with prevailing market conditions.
Remuneration of key management personnel of the Group US$m 2008 2007 Wages and salaries 10 24 Pension and other post-retirement benefit costs 7 6 Share-based compensation plans 48 68 31 98 Includes amounts paid to directors disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 104 to 107.
Amounts are based on the income statement expense credit for the year calculated in accordance with IFRS 2.
Financial Instruments Principles of risk management The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are credit risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and commodity price risk.
These risks arise from exposures that occur in the normal course of business and are managed by the Treasury Committee, which operates as a sub-committee of the Executive Committee.
The responsibilities of the Treasury Committee include the recommendation of policies to manage financial instrument risks.
These recommendations are reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors and implemented by the Groups Treasury Department.
The overall objective of the Treasury Committee is to effectively manage credit risk, liquidity risk and other market risks in accordance with the Groups strategy.
Other responsibilities of the Treasury Committee include management of the Groups cash resources and debt funding programmes, approval of counterparties and relevant transaction limits and the monitoring of all significant treasury activities undertaken by the Group.
The Group uses both conventional financial instruments and derivative financial instruments to manage these risks.
The Groups Treasury Department prepares monthly treasury reports which monitor all significant treasury activities undertaken by Group companies.
The report also benchmarks significant treasury activities and monitors key banking loan covenants to ensure continued compliance.
The Treasury Committee and Executive Committee reviews these reports to monitor the financial instrument risks of the Group and to ensure compliance with established Group policies and procedures.
The Groups significant financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise bank loans and overdrafts, convertible borrowings, capital market notes, finance leases, hire purchase contracts, cash and short-term deposits.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to finance the Groups acquisitions and ongoing operations.
The Group has various other financial assets and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
Derivative transactions are entered into solely to hedge risks and hedge accounting under IAS 39 is only applied when certain criteria have been met.
Market fluctuations in derivative financial instruments designated as hedges are used to offset the fluctuations in the underlying exposure.
The Group does not hold derivatives for trading or speculative purposes.
The Groups accounting policies in relation to derivatives are set out in note 6.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 189 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 37.
Financial Instruments continued Credit risk Exposure to credit risk arises as a result of transactions in the Groups ordinary course of business and is applicable to all financial assets.
Investments in cash, short-term deposits and similar assets are with approved counterparty banks and other financial institutions.
Counterparties are assessed both prior to, during, and after the conclusion of transactions to ensure exposure to credit risk is limited to an acceptable level.
The Groups major exposure to credit risk is in respect of trade receivables.
Given the geographical industry spread of the Groups ultimate customers and the solvency of major trade debtors, credit risk is believed to be limited.
Past the due date but not impaired Neither Between impaired nor Between Between 91 and past the Less than 30 and 181 and More than US$m due date 30 days 90 days 180 days 365 days 1 year Total Trade debtors: 2008 1,204147125877 1,570 2007 1,3038981059251 22,451 The credit quality of the Groups significant customers is monitored on an ongoing basis by the Credit Department.
Receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are considered of high credit quality.
There were no material impairments of trade debtors as at 31 December 2008 or 2007.
The solvency of the debtor and their ability to repay the receivables were considered in assessing the impairment of such assets.
No collateral is held in respect of impaired assets or assets that are past due but not impaired.
Details of guarantees material to the Group are outlined in note 34.
Where concentrations of credit risk exist, management closely monitors the receivable and ensures appropriate controls are in place to ensure recovery.
A portion of the Groups revenues are generated from sales to Glencore, a related party.
These sales are governed by various sales, marketing and distribution agreements as outlined in note 36.
In general, Glencore act as a sales and marketing agent, on-selling purchases from the Group to a wide variety of purchasers.
As these agreements have been in place for a number of years and the Group has not been exposed to significant unrecoverable amounts, the Group does not believe these arrangements expose it to unacceptable credit risks.
Credit risk is minimal and not concentrated for other financial assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is limited to the total carrying value of financial assets on the balance sheet as at the reporting date, being an amount of US$4,373 million 2007: US$4,854 million.
The Group does not have netting agreements with any debtors.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group may not be able to settle or meet its obligations on time or at a reasonable price.
The Groups Treasury Department is responsible for management of liquidity risk, including funding, settlements, related processes and policies.
The Group manages its liquidity risk on a consolidated basis utilising various sources of finance to maintain flexibility while ensuring access to cost-effective funds when required.
The operational, tax, capital and regulatory requirements and obligations of the Group are considered in the management of liquidity risk.
In addition, management utilise both shortand long-term cash flow forecasts and other consolidated financial information to manage liquidity risk.
The Groups Treasury Department monitors the Groups long-term credit ratings from major ratings agencies including Standard & Poors and Moodys when assessing the ongoing credit worthiness of the Group.
At 31 December 2008, the Group had long-term credit ratings of BBB negative outlook from Standard & Poors 2007: BBB stable outlook and Baa2 negative outlook from Moodys 2007: Baa2 stable outlook and A low from DBRS stable outlook.
The ratings agencies consider a number of qualitative measurements when assessing the creditworthiness of a company.
These include an assessment of the quality of assets and management, attitudes to risk, industry type and the performance of a company in relation to its peers.
They also examine a number of financial ratios such as leverage, debt to operating cash flow, interest coverage, total liabilities to total assets and return on invested capital.
The Groups Treasury Department continuously monitors the Groups performance relative to these ratios as a guide to the ongoing creditworthiness of the Group.
The Group has various borrowing facilities available to it.
This ensures flexibility to minimise liquidity risk and ensure the ongoing solvency of the Group.
The undrawn committed facilities available at 31 December 2008 in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date are as follows: Available undrawn borrowing facilities and maturity: US$m 2008 2007 Expiring in: Less than 1 year 280 3,415 Between 3 to 4 years 2,647 Between 4 to 5 years 410 2,927 3,825 190 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 The following tables show the Groups contractually agreed undiscounted forecast cash flows from interest payments and the repayments of financial liabilities, including derivative financial liabilities.
Due within Due between Due between Due between Due between Due after US$m 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2008 Non-derivative financial liabilities: Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 794 69 4,169 6,747 4 5,679 17,462 Convertible borrowings 331 331 Interest payments on loans and borrowings 975 946 928 493 334 2,098 5,774 Other non-interest-bearing liabilities 3,233 712 3,945 Derivative financial liabilities: Derivatives contracts net payments 202 213 24 332 771 Due within Due between Due between Due between Due between Due after US$m 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2007 Non-derivative financial liabilities: Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,118 781 681,3785,701 3,75012,796 Convertible borrowings 375 375 Interest payments on loans and borrowings 644 569 498 458 319 2,219 4,707 Other non-interest-bearing liabilities 3,745 54 3,799 Derivative financial liabilities: Derivatives contracts net payments 205 58 142 6 411 All instruments held at 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007 and for which payments were already contractually agreed are included.
Amounts in foreign currency are each translated at the closing rate at the reporting date.
The variable interest payments arising from the financial instruments were calculated using interest rates as at reporting date.
Financial liabilities that can be repaid at any time are always assigned to the earliest possible time period.
Future forecast transactions or transactions subsequent to year end are not included.
Market risk analysis IFRS 7 requires sensitivity analyses that show the effects of hypothetical changes of relevant market risk variables on the Groups profit and shareholders equity.
The periodic effects are determined by relating the hypothetical changes in the risk variables to the balance of financial instruments at the reporting date.
The Groups primary market exposures are to interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and commodity price risk.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk primarily as a result of exposures to movements in the LIBOR.
It is the Groups preference to borrow and invest at floating rates of interest, notwithstanding that some borrowings are at fixed rates.
In addition, a limited amount of fixed rate hedging may be undertaken during periods where the Groups exposure to movements in short-term interest rates is more significant.
In keeping with the Groups preference to borrow at floating rates of interest, the following interest rate swap contracts were outstanding at 31 December 2008 and 2007: Principal Average Fair Principal Average Fair amount rate % value amount rate % value US$m 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 At fair value: Interest rate swap from US$ fixed rates: Maturing in less than 1 year 111 8.09 4 Maturing between 1 to 2 years Maturing between 2 to 3 years 2,224 2.80 147 Maturing between 3 to 4 years 925 3.04 85 1,050 5.17 29 Maturing between 4 to 5 years 925 5.60 32 Maturing greater than 5 years 4,099 3.66 495 2,175 5.64 37 Interest rate swap to US$ fixed rates: Maturing in less than 1 year 25 5.00 Maturing between 1 to 2 years Maturing between 2 to 3 years 100 4.54 8 Maturing between 4 to 5 years 100 4.54 6 Maturing greater than 5 years 7,348 3.33 719 4,386 5.55 96 Relates to the Unsecured notes and Senior debentures refer to note 28.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 191 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 37.
Financial Instruments continued The interest rate risk profile of the Group as at 31 December 2008 was as follows: Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due within between between between between more than US$m 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years 2008 Fixed rate by balance sheet category Cash and cash equivalents 222 222 Capital market notes 14 14 2,305 1,342 5,253 8,928 Equity minority interest loans 81 81 Convertible borrowings 331 331 Finance leases hire purchase contracts 26 14 29 2 3 36 110 Preference shares 64 64 Other loans 58 58 118 28 2,334 1,425 3 5,678 9,350 Fixed rate by currency: AUD 9 9 26 1 1 75 121 CAD 65 1 1 1 4 72 EUR 1,096 755 1,656 3,507 US$ 192 18 1,210 668 1 3,161 4,866 GBP 774 774 ZAR 1 1 8 10 118 28 2,334 1,425 3 5,678 9,350 Floating rate by balance sheet category: Cash and cash equivalents 885 885 Capital market notes 579 579 Syndicated bank loans unsecured 1,791 5,182 6,973 Bank loans other unsecured 83 41 42 139 305 Bank overdrafts 11 11 Equity minority interest loans 17 17 195 41 1,833 5,321 7,000 Floating rate by currency: AUD 32 32 CAD 12 12 EUR 13 13 US$ 89 41 1,833 5,321 7,106 ZAR 46 46 GBP 3 3 PEN 1 1 CLP 11 11 NOK 8 8 JPY 1 1 Other 3 3 195 41 1,833 5,321 7,000 These borrowings are subject to interest rate swaps.
192 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 The interest rate risk profile of the Group as at 31 December 2007 was as follows: Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due within between between between between more than US$m 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years 2007 Fixed rate by balance sheet category Cash and cash equivalents 220 220 Capital market notes 350 14 14 1,165 1,335 3,338 6,216 Equity minority interest loans 81 81 Convertible borrowings 327 327 Finance leases hire purchase contracts 18 21 13 29 4 47 132 Preference shares 149 79 228 Other loans 54 54 297 114 27 1,194 1,420 3,766 6,818 Fixed rate by currency: AUD 37 11 9 27 1 73 84 CAD 347 81 1 2 2 14 447 EUR 675 675 1,350 US$ 8 22 15 1,165 742 2,993 4,929 GBP 8 8 ZAR 3 2 11 16 297 114 27 1,194 1,420 3,766 6,818 Floating rate by balance sheet category: Cash and cash equivalents 903 903 Other financial assets 54 21 75 Capital market notes 500 500 Syndicated bank loans unsecured 481 4,270 4,751 Bank loans other unsecured 41 41 41 180 2 305 Bank overdrafts 79 79 Preference shares 120 120 Other loans 8 15 328 351 356 541 41 188 4,407 307 5,128 Floating rate by currency: AUD 57 57 CAD 39 120 81 EUR 10 10 US$ 20 540 40 188 4,287 133 5,168 ZAR 209 1 1 174 33 GBP 1 1 ARS 14 14 CLP 1 1 Other 5 5 356 541 41 188 4,407 307 5,128 These borrowings are subject to interest rate swaps.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 193 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 37.
Financial Instruments continued The interest charged on floating rate financial liabilities is based on the relevant national inter-bank rates and repriced at least annually.
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until maturity of the instrument.
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above tables are non-interest-bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
IFRS 7 requires interest rate sensitivity analysis that shows the effects of changes in market interest rates on the income statement and, if appropriate, shareholders equity.
The interest rate sensitivity analyses are based on the following assumptions: For non-derivative financial instruments with fixed interest rate terms, a change in market interest rates only affects income if these are measured at their fair value.
Consequently, all non-derivative financial instruments with fixed interest rate terms that are carried at amortised cost are excluded from this analysis with the exception of those subject to a fixed to floating rate swap refer below : Items subject to an effective fixed to floating interest rate swap hedge are assumed to be floating instruments for the purpose of this analysis: For floating rate instruments, income statement impacts assume adjustments to interest income and expense for a 12-month period: The Group does not have significant cash flow hedges related to interest rate risk.
As such, movements that would occur in equity as a result of a hypothetical change in interest rates at reporting date have been excluded from this analysis: Changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges are assumed to be fully effective with no impact on the income statement or equity: Changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments not in hedging relationships are assumed to impact the income statement: The Group does not have material exposure to interest rate risk from available-for-sale financial instruments.
As such, these financial instruments have been excluded from this analysis: The balance of interest-bearing financial instruments at reporting date is representative of the balance for the year as a whole and hypothetical interest rate movements are deemed to apply for the entire reporting period: and The impact of interest rate movements on the carrying value of pension obligations has been excluded.
If the market interest rates had been 100 basis points higher lower at 31 December 2008 income would have been US$140 million 2007: US$71 million lower higher.
There would be no material effect on equity reserves other than those relating directly to movements in the income statement.
Foreign currency risk Owing to the Groups significant operations in Australia, North America, South America, South Africa and Europe, the balance sheet and results can be affected significantly by movements in exchange rates.
The long-term relationship between commodity prices and the currencies of most of the countries where the Group operates provides a degree of natural protection, however, in the short term it can be quite volatile.
The presentation currency of the Group is the US$.
Foreign currency hedges Group subsidiaries located in Australia and Canada have entered into AUD US$ and CAD US$ exchange contracts to hedge a portion of their US$ denominated revenue and third-party loans.
The Group also enters into forward contracts to hedge specific one-off foreign currency transactions.
The open foreign currency exchange contracts as at 31 December 2008 are as follows: Classified as cash flow hedges: Average Average Contract forward Fair Contract forward Fair amount rate value amount rate value US$m 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 Forward contracts sell US$ buy AUD: Maturing in less than 1 year 123 0.7351 2 125 0.8544 1 123 0.7351 2 125 0.8544 1 Forward contracts sell US$ buy EUR: Maturing between 2 to 3 years 1,174 1.5650 126 Maturing between 3 to 4 years 675 1.3500 24 Maturing between 4 to 5 years 675 1.35 56 Maturing after 5 years 2,599 1.6578 333 675 1.35 56 4,448 1.5866 435 1,350 1.35 112 Forward contracts sell US$ buy JPY: Maturing in less than 1 year 2 103.85 2 103.85 Relates to the Unsecured notes refer to note 28.
The timing of hedged cash flows is expected to coincide with the maturities of the hedging instruments to which they relate.
An Australian subsidiary has designated its US$ denominated capital market notes as a fair value hedge of an investment in a US$ denominated South American operation refer to note 28.
194 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 Classified as other derivatives: Average Average Contract forward Fair Contract forward Fair amount rate value amount rate value US$m 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 Forward contracts sell US$ buy AUD: Maturing in less than 1 year 931 0.8664 15 931 0.8664 15 Forward contracts sell CAD buy US$: Maturing in less than 1 year 18 0.983 Maturing between 2 to 3 years 300 1.5350 79 Maturing between 3 to 4 years 300 1.535 142 300 1.5350 79 318 1.504 142 Forward contracts sell US$ buy CAD: Maturing in less than 1 year 1,291 1.0387 113 1,330 1.0452 65 Maturing between 1 to 2 years 1,291 1.0387 113 1,330 1.0452 65 Forward contracts sell US$ buy EUR: Maturing in less than 1 year 12 1.3429 1 12 1.3429 1 Forward contracts sell US$ buy ZAR: Maturing in less than 1 year 116 10.50 8 Maturing between 1 to 2 years 11 10.80 127 10.53 8 For the purpose of IFRS 7 sensitivity analysis currency risks arises because financial instruments are denominated in a currency that is not the functional currency of the subsidiary or joint venture.
The movements shown below largely result from trade payables and receivables that are not denominated in the local entitys functional currency.
Trade payable and receivables generally arise as a result of the operations of the Group in the ordinary course of business.
The currency sensitivity analysis is based on the following assumptions: Differences resulting from the translation of financial statements of subsidiaries or joint ventures into the Groups presentation currency, US dollar, are not taken into consideration: The major currency exposures for the Group relate to the US dollar and local currencies of subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Foreign currency exposures between two currencies where one is not the US dollar are deemed insignificant to the Group and have therefore been excluded from the sensitivity analysis: Derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are assumed to be fully effective hedges and therefore any movements in carrying value are captured within equity and have no impact on the income statement analysis: Changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges are assumed to be fully effective with no impact on the income statement or equity: Changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments not in hedging relationships are assumed to impact the income statement: and The impact of foreign currency movements on the carrying value of pension obligations has been excluded.
In accordance with IFRS 7, the impact of foreign currencies has been determined based on the balances of financial assets and liabilities at 31 December 2008.
This sensitivity does not represent the income statement impact that would be expected from a movement in foreign currency exchange rates over the course of a period of time.
If the US dollar had gained lost 5% against all currencies significant to the Group the impact would have been: Effect on Effect on Closing net earnings Effect on equity Closing net earnings Effect on equity exchange rate of a 5% change of a 5% change exchange rate of a 5% change of a 5% change Functional currency 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 Argentinean peso 3.4538 3 3.1500 2 Australian dollar 0.7048 25 6 0.8751 15 5 Canadian dollar 1.2205 22 0.9984 32 Chilean peso 637.25 3 497.95 10 Colombian peso 2,248.70 2,018.00 1 Euro 1.3974 6 1.4590 Peruvian neuvo 3.1345 1 2.9980 South African rand 9.3212 45 6.8626 9 Total 47 6 29 5 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 195 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 37.
Financial Instruments continued Commodity price risk The Group is exposed to fluctuations in commodity prices, with the commodity mix spread between those which are priced by reference to prevailing market prices on terminal markets and those that are set on a contract basis with customers, generally on an annual basis.
Commodity price risks arise in all major commodities that the Group produces.
Commodity price risk is managed by maintaining a diversified portfolio of commodities and typically does not involve large-scale strategic hedging or price management initiatives.
Due to the volatile nature of commodity prices and the historical relationship between prices and the currencies of most of the countries where the Group operates, hedging may be entered into only in limited circumstances and subject to strict limits laid down by the Board of Directors.
Commodity hedging The Australian and Americas operations have gold forwards and collars to hedge prices of future sales.
The Australian and South African operations have entered into coal forwards to hedge prices of future sales of coal.
The open forwards and collars commodity contracts as at 31 December 2008 are as follows: Classified as cash flow hedges: Average Fair Average Fair price value price value Ounces US$ US$m Ounces US$ US$m 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 Cash flow hedges: Gold forwards AUD denominated contracts: Maturing in less than 1 year 76,600 743.53 27 61,700 740.12 13 Maturing between 1 to 2 years 87,800 747.47 22 76,600 743.53 27 149,500 744.44 35 Gold collars US$ denominated contracts: Maturing in less than 1 year 125,000 495-640 32 94,500 475-594 24 Maturing between 1 to 2 years 150,000 495-640 36 125,000 495-640 32 244,500 475-640 60 Average Fair Average Fair price value price value Tonnes US$ US$m Tonnes US$ US$m 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 Coal forwards US$ denominated contracts: FOB Maturing in less than 1 year 2,200,000 74.62 6 4,040,000 58.30 128 2,200,000 74.62 6 4,040,000 58.30 128 CIF Maturing in less than 1 year 600,000 68.72 27 600,000 68.72 27 The maturities of these hedges reflect the expected timing of cash flows related to these instruments.
196 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 Classified as other Commodity Derivatives: Average Fair value Average Fair value Tonnes price US$ US$m Tonnes price US$ US$m 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 Copper forwards US$ denominated contracts: Maturing in less than 1 year 21,775 3,397.31 8 4,914 6,671.28 3 21,775 3,397.31 8 4,914 6,671.28 3 Average Fair value Average Fair value Ounces price US$ US$m Ounces price US$ US$m 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 Gold forwards AUD denominated contracts: Maturing in less than 1 year 11,200 774.42 3 22,500 721.00 5 11,200 774.42 3 22,500 721.00 5 Gold options US$ denominated contracts: Maturing in less than 1 year 25,000 495-640 6 31,500 475-594 8 25,000 495-640 6 31,500 475-594 8 Average Fair value Average Fair value Ounces price US$ US$m Ounces price US$ US$m 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 Gold swaps AUD denominated contracts: Maturing in less than 1 year 10,600 1.5 40,600 1.5 Maturing between 1 to 2 years 10,600 1.5 10,600 1.5 51,200 1.5 The IFRS 7 sensitivity analysis below has been prepared using the following assumptions: This analysis only takes into account commodities for which the Group has significant exposure: Fixed price sale and purchases contracts will not fluctuate with movements in commodity prices and are therefore excluded from this analysis: Derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are assumed to be fully effective hedges and therefore any movements in carrying value are captured within equity and have no impact on the income statement analysis: Changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges are assumed to be fully effective with no impact on the income statement or equity: and Changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments not in hedging relationships are assumed to impact the income statement.
In accordance with IFRS 7, the impact of commodity prices has been determined based on the balances of financial assets and liabilities at 31 December 2008.
This sensitivity does not represent the income statement impact that would be expected from a movement in commodity prices over the course of a period of time.
If prices for all commodities for which the Group has significant exposure had been 10% higher lower at 31 December 2008, income would have been US$89 million higher lower 2007: US$105 million higher lower and equity reserves would have been US$26 million lower higher 2007: US$77 million lower higher as a result of changes to reserves for commodity cash flow hedges.
There would be no other material changes in reserves of the Group as at 31 December 2008 or 2007 other than those relating directly to income statement movements.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 197 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 37.
Financial Instruments continued Fair values Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying value and fair values of the Groups financial instruments that are not carried at fair value in the financial statements at 31 December: Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value US$m 2008 2008 2007 2007 Financial liabilities: Capital market notes 9,426 9,439 6,216 6,001 Convertible borrowings 331 327 327 305 Equity minority interest loans 98 99 81 83 Finance leases 110 110 132 132 Preference shares 64 64 348 348 Other loans 63 63 54 54 Market rates at 31 December 2008 have been used to determine the fair value of fixed interest loans.
The fair value of the liability portion of the convertible bonds are estimated using an equivalent market interest rate of a similar liability that does not have a conversion option as at the origination of the bond refer to note 28.
The following table shows the carrying amounts as at 31 December for each category of financial assets and liabilities as required by IFRS 7: US$m 2008 2007 Financial assets: Cash and cash equivalents 1,156 1,148 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit and loss 42 54 Loans and receivables 2,211 3,150 Available-for-sale financial assets 161 203 Derivative financial assets 803 299 Financial liabilities: Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 21,073 16,922 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit and loss 334 Derivative financial liabilities 771 411 The following table shows the gains losses for each category of financial assets and liabilities as required by IFRS 7: US$m 2008 2007 Financial assets: Available-for-sale financial assets gain loss recognised in equity 114 49 Available-for-sale financial assets loss recognised in the income statement 1 Derivative financial instruments loss recognised in equity 157 261 Derivative financial instruments loss recognised in the income statement 321 115 Interest revenues and expenses are not included in the calculation of the gains losses of financial assets and liabilities.
Events After Balance Sheet Date Rights issue On 29 January 2009, the Company announced a proposed 2 for 1 rights issue to raise approximately US$5.9 billion.
The proceeds of the rights issue will be used to repay existing debt and to acquire Glencore International AGs coal operations in Colombia for a total consideration of US$2 billion.
No further information is presented on this acquisition due to the short time period between the acquisition and the approval of these financial statements.
Restructure of Sudbury nickel operations On 9 February 2009, the Group announced plans to restructure its Sudbury nickel operations in response to ongoing challenging market conditions.
As a result of the restructuring, the Fraser Mine Complex will be placed on care and maintenance and associated support and administrative functions will be reorganised.
