Basis of preparation and consolidation, accounting policies and critical accounting estimates and judgements Basis of preparation and consolidation b Cost of sales Yell Group plc the Company is a public limited company Cost of sales are the costs incurred in developing incorporated, listed and domiciled in the UK.
directories and other Group products.
Provisions for impairment of trade receivables are also included within The financial statements have been prepared under the cost of sales.
historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of financial instruments including derivative instruments c Advertising at fair value in accordance with International Financial The Group expenses the costs of advertising its own Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European products and services as the costs are incurred.
Union EU, and the Companies Act 1985.
Accordingly these financial statements have been prepared in accordance d Finance costs and income with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Finance costs payable are charged as incurred using the therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Resolution.
Finance income is recognised A summary of the more important Group accounting on an accruals basis.
policies is set out below.
e Exceptional items The Group financial statements consolidate the financial Exceptional items are transactions which by virtue of statements of the Company and all subsidiaries for the their incidence, size, or combination of both are disclosed year ended 31 March 2008. separately in the notes to the financial statements.
Where the financial statements of subsidiary undertakings f Foreign currencies do not conform with the Groups accounting policies, On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign appropriate adjustments are made on consolidation undertakings are translated into sterling at year end in order to present the Group consolidated financial exchange rates.
The results of foreign undertakings are statements on a consistent basis.
All significant companies translated into sterling at average rates of exchange for within the Yell Group during the period of ownership have the year to the extent that these rates approximate the coterminous financial years.
All transactions between the actual rates.
Groups businesses have been eliminated in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation at The results of companies and businesses acquired during period end exchange rates of the net investment in foreign the year are included in the consolidated financial undertakings, and on borrowings designated as hedges of statements from their respective dates of acquisition.
such investments, are taken to equity through the statement of recognised income and expense.
Intra-group transactions, which have been eliminated on consolidation of the Group, have not been disclosed, other All other exchange gains or losses are dealt with through than those shown in note 28, Related Party Transactions.
Brief details of principal subsidiary undertakings at each g Goodwill year end, all of which are unlisted, are shown in note 13 Goodwill arising from the purchase of subsidiary to the financial statements.
undertakings represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the net We have made certain changes to the classification of assets.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and is amounts in the prior year balance sheet and notes to be subject to impairment review, both annually from the date consistent with presentations at 31 March 2008.
These of transition onwards and when there are indications that changes are presentational only and do not affect our the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill is cash flows or results.
carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Significant accounting policies h Other non-current intangible assets a Revenue On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed Group revenue, after deduction of sales allowances, value to the assets and liabilities acquired.
These net assets may added tax and other sales taxes, comprises the value of include software development costs, brand names, nonproducts provided by Group undertakings.
Revenue from compete agreements, contracts, customer commitments classified directories and other directories, mainly and customer relationships, all of which are recorded as comprising advertising revenue, is recognised in the intangible assets and held at cost less accumulated income statement upon completion of delivery to the users amortisation.
Software is amortised on a straight-line of the directories.
Other revenue, principally from internet basis over its useful economic life, which does not and voice products, is recognised from the point at which generally exceed four years.
Brand names are amortised service is first provided over the life of the contract.
on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives, which do not exceed 40 years.
Non-compete agreements are amortised on a straight-line basis over the term of the agreement.
Contracts are amortised on a straight-line 61 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 1.
Basis of preparation and consolidation, accounting policies and critical accounting estimates and judgements continued basis over the term of the contract.
Customer k Investments commitments are amortised as the directories to which the The carrying value of the investments in subsidiary commitments relate are published.
Customer relationships undertakings in the financial statements of the Company are amortised on a basis that takes into account the is based upon a valuation at 31 March 2003 in preparation estimated customer retention rate at the date of for our Initial Public Offering.
Under the transition rules of acquisition.
The useful economic lives of customer IFRS 1, this carrying value is deemed to be cost and is relationships do not generally exceed eight years.
subject to the policy on asset impairment.
The amortisation period and method are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Any impairment would be charged to the income statement account to the extent that it is not covered i Property, plant and equipment by amounts previously credited to shareholders equity Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost through the revaluation surplus.
Cost comprises the purchase price and any other costs of bringing an asset into use.
Depreciation l Leased assets is provided on property, plant and equipment on a Rentals in respect of operating leases, under which straight-line basis from the time they are available for use, substantially all the benefits and risks of ownership remain so as to write off their costs over their estimated useful with the lessor, are charged to the income statement on economic lives taking into account any expected residual a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Assets held under finance leases where substantially all Reviews are made annually of the estimated remaining the benefits and risks of ownership are transferred to the lives and residual values of individual productive assets Group are capitalised in property, plant and equipment at and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate, taking account the present value of the minimum lease payments payable of commercial and technological obsolescence as well as during the lease term and depreciated over the shorter of normal wear and tear.
their useful economic lives or the lease term.
The capital element of the future obligations under the leases is The estimated lives assigned to property, plant and included as a liability in the consolidated balance sheets, equipment are: classified as appropriate as a payable due within or after one year.
Lease payments are split between capital and Buildings 10 - 40 years interest elements using the interest rate implicit in the Leasehold improvements 5 years or life of lease if less lease.
Interest is charged to the income statement.
than 5 years m Inventories Office equipment 2 - 6 years Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable Land Not depreciated value.
j Asset impairment n Directories in development Assets with indefinite useful lives are not subject to The cost of directories in development is recognised amortisation and instead are tested for impairment as a current intangible asset where the costs directly on an annual basis and whenever events or changes in attributable to the development of the directory can be circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not measured reliably.
When directories are launched on a be recoverable.
Assets subject to amortisation are tested non-paid basis the costs are expensed as incurred.
for impairment when an event that might affect asset The development costs mainly comprise the direct costs values has occurred.
An impairment loss is recognised to of certain personnel dedicated to developing adverts and the extent that the carrying amount cannot be recovered creating the content for directories, certain customer either by selling the asset or by the discounted future commitments in acquired businesses, artwork and other earnings from operating the assets.
directory production and development costs, including appropriate and directly attributable overheads.
The asset For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are is amortised to cost of sales on completion of delivery of grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately the relevant directory when the related revenue is identifiable cash flows cash generating units, or CGUs.
Where assets do not generate independent cash flows and their carrying value cannot be attributed to a particular o Trade receivables CGU, CGUs are grouped together at the level at which Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value.
these assets reside, and the carrying value of this group A provision for impairment of trade receivables is of CGUs is compared to the recoverable amount of that established when there is objective evidence that the particular group.
The recoverable amount is the higher Group will not be able to collect all amounts due of an assets fair value less cost to sell and value in use.
according to the original terms of receivables.
The provision is calculated by estimating future cash flows from trade receivables on the basis of historical loss experience.
62 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 Financial & shareholder information p Cash and cash equivalents and the increase in the present value of the schemes Cash and cash equivalents represent cash in hand, bank liabilities arising from the passage of time are included in deposits repayable on demand, and other short-term other finance costs or income.
Actuarial gains and losses highly liquid readily convertible into cash investments with on pension schemes are recognised immediately in the original maturities of three months or less.
statement of recognised income and expense.
q Borrowings Payments to the Groups defined contribution schemes All borrowings are initially stated at the fair value of are charged against profit as incurred.
consideration received after deduction of issue costs.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
t Employee share schemes Issue costs are charged to the income statement together The fair value of employee share based payments is with the coupon, as finance costs, on a constant-yield calculated using the Black-Scholes model.
In accordance basis over the term of the borrowings, or over a shorter with IFRS 2 Share Based Payments, the resulting cost is period where the lender can require earlier repayment.
charged against income over the vesting period of the awards.
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect r Share capital expected and actual levels of options vesting.
When the Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
ESOP trust acquires and holds shares of the Company, the Group presents them as a deduction treasury shares in Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new arriving at equity shareholders funds.
We account for the shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net issuance of treasury shares on a first-in, first-out basis.
u Taxation The shares held in an ESOP Trust for employees until The charge credit for taxation is based on the profit loss issued are presented as Treasury shares in the Group for the year and takes into account deferred taxation balance sheet.
Where the Trust or any Group company where transactions or events give rise to temporary purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury differences between the treatment of certain items for shares the consideration paid, including any directly taxation and for accounting purposes.
Provision is made attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, in full for deferred tax liabilities.
Deferred tax assets are is deducted from equity until the shares are cancelled, recognised to the extent that it is probable that future reissued or disposed.
taxable profit will be available against which the benefit can be realised.
s Employee benefits The Group expenses employee benefits as employees Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be render the services that give rise to the benefits in paid or recovered under the tax rates that have been accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are The Group currently operates a defined benefit pension expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary scheme for its UK employees employed before 1 October differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates 2001 and operates defined contribution pension schemes and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted for its UK employees employed subsequent to 1 October by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and 2001 and its US employees.
There are no pension schemes liabilities are not discounted.
currently in place for Yell Publicidad employees.
No provision is made for unremitted earnings of foreign All pension schemes are independent of the Groups subsidiaries or temporary differences relating to finances.
Actuarial valuations of the defined benefit investments in subsidiaries where realisation of such scheme are carried out as determined by the trustees differences can be controlled and is not probable in the at intervals of not more than three years, the rates of foreseeable future.
contribution payable and the pension cost being determined on the advice of the actuaries, having regard to the results of these valuations.
In any intervening years, the actuaries review the continuing appropriateness of the contribution rates.
The balance sheet includes the surplus or deficit in the defined benefit scheme taking assets at their year-end market values and liabilities at their actuarially calculated values discounted at the year end AA corporate bond interest rates.
The cost of benefits accruing during the year in respect of current and past service is charged against operating profit.
The expected return on the schemes assets 63 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 1.
Basis of preparation and consolidation, accounting policies and critical accounting estimates and judgements continued v Derivative financial instruments y Contingent liabilities Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date Through the normal course of business, Yell is involved in a derivative contract is entered into and the fair value is legal disputes, the settlement of which may involve cost to subsequently remeasured at the year end.
These costs are accrued when payment is recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether probable and associated costs can be reliably estimated.
the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group Critical accounting estimates and judgements designates certain derivatives as either: In general, our accounting policies under IFRSs as adopted Hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or by the European Union are consistent with those generally liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedges.
adopted by others operating within the same industry in Hedges of highly probable forecast transactions the UK.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations In preparing the consolidated financial statements, our net investment hedges.
management has made its best estimates and judgements of certain amounts included in the financial statements, We have not designated any derivatives as fair value giving due consideration to materiality.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that review these estimates and update them when required.
qualify as fair value hedges would be recorded in the Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Unless income statement, together with any changes in the fair otherwise indicated, we do not believe there is a great value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable likelihood that materially different amounts would be to the hedged risk.
reported related to the accounting policies described below.
We consider the following to be a description The effective portion of changes in the fair value of of the most significant estimates, which require our derivatives that are designated and qualify as a cash flow management to make subjective and complex hedge is recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to judgements, and matters that are inherently uncertain.
the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are a Acquisitions recycled to the income statement in the period when the When acquiring a business, we have to make judgements hedged item affects income for instance, when the and best estimates about the fair value allocation of the forecast transaction that is hedged takes place.
We seek appropriate competent and professional advice before making any such allocations.
Foreign currency borrowings are used as hedges for net We test the valuation of goodwill on an annual basis and investments in foreign operations.
Any gain or loss on whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that foreign currency borrowings used as a hedge is recognised the carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
require the use of estimates.
Amounts deferred in equity for hedges of net investments b Allowance for doubtful debts are recycled when the underlying investment is disposed of.
Receivables are reduced by an allowance for amounts that may become uncollectable in the future.
We continuously The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial monitor collections and payments from our customers and instruments for speculative purposes.
Changes in the fair maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for upon our historical experience and any specific customer hedge accounting would be recognised immediately in the collection issues that we have identified.
demonstrated the ability to make reasonable and reliable estimates of allowances for doubtful accounts based on w Minority interests significant historical experience.
A sensitivity analysis is Transactions with minority interests are accounted presented on page 35. for as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For purchases from minority interests, the difference c Economic lives of other non-current intangible assets and between any consideration paid and the relevant share property, plant and equipment acquired of the carrying value of the net assets of the Other non-current intangible assets and property, plant subsidiary is deducted from equity.
and equipment are long-lived assets that are amortised over their useful lives.
Useful lives are based on x Dividends managements estimates of the period over which the Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
The values of property, plant, Final dividends are recognised when they are approved equipment and assets with indefinite lives are reviewed by shareholders.
Other non-current intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable and at the end of the first 64 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 Financial & shareholder information full year following acquisition.
Historically, we have Standards that have been adopted during not reduced the value of any assets as a result of the the current period impairment analyses, nor have we realised large gains or IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and IAS 1 losses on disposals of other non-current intangible assets Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements or property, plant and equipment.
A sensitivity analysis is Capital Disclosures effective from 1 April 2007 presented on page 35.
IFRS 7 introduced new disclosures to improve the information about financial instruments.
It requires the d Estimated pension obligations disclosure of qualitative and quantitative information The determination of our obligation and expense for about exposure to risks arising from financial pensions is dependent on the selection of assumptions instruments, including specified minimum disclosures that are used by our actuaries in calculating such about credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk, including amounts.
Those assumptions are described in note 21 and sensitivity analysis to market risk.
It replaces IAS30 include, amongst others, the rate at which future pension Disclosures in the Financial Statements of Banks and payments are discounted to the balance sheet date, Similar Financial Institutions, and disclosure requirements inflation expectations, the expected long-term rate of in IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and return on plan assets and average expected increase in Presentation.
It is applicable to all entities that report compensation over and above inflation.
Whilst we believe under IFRSs.
The amendment to IAS 1 introduces that our assumptions are appropriate, significant disclosures about the level of an entitys capital and how differences in our actual experience or significant changes it manages capital.
The Group has applied IFRS 7 and the in our assumptions can materially affect the amount of amendment to IAS 1 from 1 April 2007 and restated our future pension obligations, future valuation comparative figures.
adjustments in the statement of total recognised gains and losses and our future employee expenses.
IFRS 8 Operating segments IFRS 8, Operating segments, was published on We value the portfolio of assets held by the defined 30 November 2006 and is effective for accounting benefit pension scheme in the UK at market value when periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
As with calculating our net pension deficit.
Values will increase other new standards, early adoption is permitted.
and decrease as markets rise and fall.
The trustees and The standard requires disclosure of segment information management have an agreed strategy to mitigate the risk that management uses internally to evaluate segment of having insufficient funds, if markets fall.
Before IFRS 8 can be applied in the UK it had to be endorsed by the EU: this was done last November and the e Tax benefits and obligations Group has applied IFRS 8 from 1 April 2007 and restated The determination of our obligation and expense for taxes comparative figures.
requires an interpretation of tax law.
We seek appropriate competent and professional tax advice before making any Standards, interpretations and amendments to published judgements on tax matters.
Whilst we believe that our standards that are not yet effective judgements are prudent and appropriate, significant Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations differences in our actual experience may materially affect to existing standards have been published that are our future tax charges.
We recognise deferred tax assets mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after and liabilities arising from timing differences where we 1 April 2008 or later periods but which the Group has have a taxable benefit or obligation in the future as a chosen not to adopt early.
The new standards that could result of past events.
We record deferred tax assets to the be relevant to the Groups operations are as follows: extent that we believe they are more likely than not to be realised.
Should we determine in the future that we would IFRIC 10 Interim financial reporting and impairment be able to realise deferred tax assets in excess of our IFRIC 10 addresses the interaction between the recorded amount or that our liabilities are different to requirements of IAS 34 and the recognition of impairment the amounts we recorded, then we would increase or losses on goodwill in IAS 36 and certain financial assets in decrease income as appropriate in the period such IAS 39, and the effect of that interaction on subsequent determination was made.
interim and annual financial statements.
The Interpretation addresses whether an entity should reverse f Accrued costs of settling lawsuits in the US impairment losses recognised in an interim period on The determination of our obligation and expense for the goodwill and investments in equity instruments and in exceptional lawsuits was based on managements best financial assets carried at cost if a loss would not have estimates after taking into consideration appropriate been recognised, or a smaller loss would have been advice from legal experts.
See note 27. recognised, had an impairment assessment been made only at a subsequent balance sheet date.
IFRIC 10 concludes that an entity shall not reverse an impairment loss recognised in a previous interim period in respect of goodwill or an investment in either an equity instrument or a financial asset carried at cost.
We do not believe that implementation of IFRIC 10 will have a significant effect on our report of operations.
65 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 1.
Basis of preparation and consolidation, accounting policies and critical accounting estimates and judgements continued IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions minority interest.
All transaction costs will be expensed.
IFRIC 11 addresses how a subsidiary should account for These changes will affect how the Group reports rights over parent company shares issued to its employees.
acquisitions but will not be effective until such time as it When a parent entity grants rights over the parents equity makes any.
The Groups accounting policy on acquisitions instruments to the employees of its subsidiary, as long as will require a change to reflect the standard.
the share-based payment arrangement is accounted for as equity-settled in the consolidated financial statements, the Standards, interpretations and amendments to published subsidiary should treat the arrangement as an equitystandards that are not yet effective and which the Group considers settled arrangement.
We do not believe that will not have any application to how the Group reports implementation of this standard and IFRIC will affect IAS 23 Capitalisation of borrowing costs applies to our consolidated results or cash flows.
investment property companies IAS 27 Reporting effect of transactions with non-controlling IFRIC 14, IAS 19 Limit on defined benefit asset and minimum interests funding requirements and their interaction IAS 32 & 1 Amendments to treatment of puttable options and IFRIC 14 provides guidance on the amount of pension some instruments that impose an obligation to deliver to scheme surpluses that companies can include as a defined another party a pro-rata share of net assets on liquidation benefit asset in their balance sheets and when a funding IFRIC 13 applies to all entities that issue award credits as part requirement, including the UK scheme specific funding, of a sales transaction, including awards that can be redeemed may give rise to additional liabilities.
We do not believe for goods or services supplied by other parties that implementation of this standard and IFRIC will affect IFRIC 12 gives guidance on the accounting by operators our consolidated results or cash flows.
for public-to-private service concession arrangements IFRS1 and IAS 27 Amendment to definition of cost method IFRS3 Business combinations revised The standard and allows first-time adopters to use a deemed cost of continues to apply the acquisition method to business either fair value or the carrying amount under previous combinations, with some significant changes.
For example, accounting practice to measure the initial cost of all payments to purchase a business are to be recorded at investments fair value at the acquisition date, with some contingent IFRS2 amended Clarifies treatment of cancellations and payments subsequently remeasured at fair value through the definition of vesting conditions income.
Goodwill may be calculated based on the parents IAS 1 revised Amends the presentation of movements share of net assets or it may include goodwill related to the in non-owner changes in equity 66 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008
