Related party transactions Company There were no transactions with Group companies in the years ended 31 March 2008 and 2007 other than the following transactions with its subsidiary, Yell Finance B. V. Year ended 31 March millions 2008 2007 Finance income from Yell Finance B. V. 40.4 40.5 Net finance income 40.4 40.5 millions 2008 2007 Amounts charged for employee stock option plans 15.8 13.9 At 31 March millions 2008 2007 Non current assets Amounts owed by Yell Finance B. V. 665.0 757.2 Total amounts owed by Group companies 665.0 757.2 Subsidiary undertakings Brief details of principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 March 2008 and 2007, all of which are unlisted, are disclosed in note 13.
Key management compensation was as follows: millions 2008 2007 Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 4.3 4.3 Post-employment benefits 0.5 Share-based payments 2.9 2.6 7.7 6.9 29.
Employee share schemes The Group has various stock option and other share plans for employees and directors.
The plans have been accounted for in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of IFRS 2 Share Based Payments.
IFRS 2 applies to equity settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 not yet vested by 1 March 2005 and all cash settled awards outstanding at 1 March 2005. a The Yell Group Limited plans In March 2002, the Yell Group introduced three stock option plans, the Yell Group Limited Employee Plan, the Yell Group Limited US Employee Plan and the Yell Group Limited Senior Manager Incentive Plan.
The plans were set up to provide employees with option awards over shares that would become exercisable on an exit event eg sale or quotation.
The option life under these plans is ten years from date of grant.
On a Change of Control, options can be exercised for up to 3 months following the Change of Control, exchanged for an equivalent option in the acquiring company, or cash-cancelled.
b The Yell Group plc Yellow Book USA West Management Share Option Scheme In September 2002, the Yell Group introduced a stock option plan, the Yell Group plc Yellow Book USA West Management Share Option Scheme for certain employees of the former McLeod directories.
This plan provided employees with option awards for shares that vest ratably on each anniversary of the grant date over a three-year period.
The options could be exercised and sold on the later of the vesting date or the date of an exit event.
The option life under the plan is five years from date of grant.
On Change of Control, options are exercisable for up to 6 months from Change in Control or can be exchanged for an equivalent option in the acquiring company.
c The Yell Group plc ShareSave Plan The Yell Group plc ShareSave Plan the ShareSave was established in July 2003.
Eligible employees who wish to participate must enter into a savings contract for a period of three or five years under which they will contribute payments of between 5 and 250 per month, and a bonus is added at the end of three, five or seven years.
In conjunction with the savings contract, an eligible employee is granted an option to subscribe for ordinary shares of Yell Group plc out of the repayment made under that contract at the end of three, five or seven years.
The exercise price of any option will not be manifestly less than 80% of the market value of the ordinary shares at the date of grant.
The ShareSave is Inland Revenue approved.
On Change of Control, options become exercisable to the extent of savings accrued, for up to 6 months from Change of Control or can be exchanged for an equivalent option in the acquiring company.
99 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 29.
Employee share schemes continued d The Yell Group plc Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Yell Group plc 2003 Employee Stock Purchase Plan the US ESPP was established in July 2003.
Eligible employees are entitled to purchase ordinary shares at the lower of 85% of the fair market value of the ordinary shares on the date the ordinary shares are offered and 85% of the fair market value of the ordinary shares on the date ending the offer period when the ordinary shares are purchased by the employee.
All ordinary shares must be purchased through the savings accumulated during an offer period through payroll deductions.
On an asset sale, merger or consolidation, options can be continued, exchanged for an equivalent option in the acquiring company, cancelled with the return of accumulated payroll deductions or exercised.
e The Yell Group plc Share Incentive Scheme The Yell Group plc Share Incentive Plan was established in July 2003 and permits free, partnership, matching and dividend shares to be awarded to eligible employees.
On a Change of Control, participants are entitled to direct the Trustee in respect of the offer.
f The Yell Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme The Yell Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme the UK Option Scheme was established in July 2003, and contains an unapproved section and a section approved by the Inland Revenue.
The price per ordinary share at which options will be exercised will be not less than the market value of the ordinary shares at the date of grant.
Options will normally be granted within a period of 42 days commencing on the day after the date on which the Group releases its quarterly, half-yearly or final results for any financial period.
In most circumstances an objective performance condition must be satisfied before an option can be exercised.
Normally options may only be exercised three years after their initial date of grant.
The option life under this plan is ten years from the date of grant.
On Change of Control, options become exercisable for up to 6 months from Change of Control, subject to achievement of performance conditions or can be exchanged for an equivalent option in the acquiring company.
g The Yell Group plc US Equity Incentive Plan The Yell Group plc 2003 US Equity Incentive Plan the US EIP was established in July 2003.
It allows the Company to issue both non-qualified and incentive stock options and ordinary shares.
The Board has sole discretion to determine who may receive awards under the USEIP and any performance conditions.
The exercise price for incentive stock options will not be less than 100% of the fair market value of the Ordinary shares on the date of grant.
Stock awards may be made to officers or employees, and the purchase price, if any, is as established by the Company.
On Change of Control, options become exercisable for up to 6 months from Change of Control and performance condition requirements fall away.
Alternatively, the option can be exchanged for an equivalent option in the acquiring company.
h The Capital Accumulation Plan The Yell Group plc Capital Accumulation Plan the CAP was established in February 2004.
It allows the Company to make awards of ordinary shares, which vest three years from the date of grant, to employees.
There are no performance criteria attached to the vesting of these shares, which are awarded to employees whom the Company wishes to retain as key talent within the organisation.
Awards are satisfied by purchasing existing shares on the open market rather than by issue of new shares.
On Change of Control, awards vest in full.
i The Long-term Incentive Plan The Yell Group plc Long-term Incentive Plan the LTIP was established in July 2003 and is not intended to be approved by the Inland Revenue.
The Board has sole discretion to determine which executives are granted awards under the LTIP.
Awards are granted in the form of performance shares and in most circumstances an objective performance condition must be satisfied before an award vests.
Normally awards may only vest three years after their initial date of grant.
For further information, see page 46.
On Change of Control, options become exercisable and performance condition requirements fall away but pro-rating for time applies.
Options may be exercised for such reasonable period as the Trustee may determine.
j Deferred Bonus Plan The Yell Group plc Deferred Bonus Plan the DBP was established in November 2004.
For any bonus awarded to executive directors a proportion of annual bonuses is subject to compulsory deferral into shares for a period of three years.
The award of these shares is made under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
There is no matching provided by the Company and the shares will be forfeited if the director leaves the Company other than as a predetermined good leaver.
On Change of Control, nil cost options become exercisable for up to 6 months from Change of Control.
An employee benefit trust held 6,712,979 shares 2007 - 5,715,156 shares at 31 March 2008 to satisfy past awards when they vest in the future.
Option grants made since 7 November 2002 have been fair-valued using the Black-Scholes model.
The weighted-average assumptions used in the estimates of fair value were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2008 2007 Risk-free interest rate 4.9% 4.9% Expected dividend yield 3.1% 2.9% Expected volatility 25.8% 24.0% Expected life of option - Years 3.8 3.5 Volatility was determined based on the historical volatility of our share price.
National Insurance contributions on share options accrued at 31 March 2008 amounted to 0.4 million 2007 - 3.4 million.
The share based payments expense in the year ended 31 March 2008 amounted to 15.7 million 2007 - 13.9 million.
101 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008
