Basis of preparation and consolidation, accounting policies and critical accounting estimates and judgements Basis of preparation and consolidation b Cost of sales Yell Group plc the Company is a public limited company Cost of sales are the costs incurred in developing incorporated, listed and domiciled in the UK.
directories and other Group products.
Provisions for impairment of trade receivables are also included within The financial statements have been prepared under the cost of sales.
historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of financial instruments including derivative instruments c Advertising at fair value in accordance with International Financial The Group expenses the costs of advertising its own Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European products and services as the costs are incurred.
Union EU, and the Companies Act 1985.
Accordingly these financial statements have been prepared in accordance d Finance costs and income with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Finance costs payable are charged as incurred using the therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Resolution.
Finance income is recognised A summary of the more important Group accounting on an accruals basis.
policies is set out below.
e Exceptional items The Group financial statements consolidate the financial Exceptional items are transactions which by virtue of statements of the Company and all subsidiaries for the their incidence, size, or combination of both are disclosed year ended 31 March 2008. separately in the notes to the financial statements.
Where the financial statements of subsidiary undertakings f Foreign currencies do not conform with the Groups accounting policies, On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign appropriate adjustments are made on consolidation undertakings are translated into sterling at year end in order to present the Group consolidated financial exchange rates.
The results of foreign undertakings are statements on a consistent basis.
All significant companies translated into sterling at average rates of exchange for within the Yell Group during the period of ownership have the year to the extent that these rates approximate the coterminous financial years.
All transactions between the actual rates.
Groups businesses have been eliminated in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation at The results of companies and businesses acquired during period end exchange rates of the net investment in foreign the year are included in the consolidated financial undertakings, and on borrowings designated as hedges of statements from their respective dates of acquisition.
such investments, are taken to equity through the statement of recognised income and expense.
Intra-group transactions, which have been eliminated on consolidation of the Group, have not been disclosed, other All other exchange gains or losses are dealt with through than those shown in note 28, Related Party Transactions.
Brief details of principal subsidiary undertakings at each g Goodwill year end, all of which are unlisted, are shown in note 13 Goodwill arising from the purchase of subsidiary to the financial statements.
undertakings represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the net We have made certain changes to the classification of assets.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and is amounts in the prior year balance sheet and notes to be subject to impairment review, both annually from the date consistent with presentations at 31 March 2008.
These of transition onwards and when there are indications that changes are presentational only and do not affect our the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill is cash flows or results.
carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Significant accounting policies h Other non-current intangible assets a Revenue On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed Group revenue, after deduction of sales allowances, value to the assets and liabilities acquired.
These net assets may added tax and other sales taxes, comprises the value of include software development costs, brand names, nonproducts provided by Group undertakings.
Revenue from compete agreements, contracts, customer commitments classified directories and other directories, mainly and customer relationships, all of which are recorded as comprising advertising revenue, is recognised in the intangible assets and held at cost less accumulated income statement upon completion of delivery to the users amortisation.
Software is amortised on a straight-line of the directories.
Other revenue, principally from internet basis over its useful economic life, which does not and voice products, is recognised from the point at which generally exceed four years.
Brand names are amortised service is first provided over the life of the contract.
on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives, which do not exceed 40 years.
Non-compete agreements are amortised on a straight-line basis over the term of the agreement.
Contracts are amortised on a straight-line 61 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008
