Financial & shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting This Notice of Annual General Meeting is important and Resolution 5 requires your immediate attention.
If you have any doubt as That John Davis be re-elected as a director.
to the action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, Resolution 6 bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other financial adviser That Lyndon Lea be re-elected as a director.
authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your ordinary Resolution 7 shares in Yell Group plc, please send this document, together That Lord Powell of Bayswater be re-elected as a director.
with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through Resolution 8 whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the That Robert Scott be re-elected as a director.
Resolution 9 Notice is hereby given that the 2008 Annual General Meeting That John Coghlan be re-elected as a director.
of Yell Group plc the Company will be held at Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2HS on Friday 25 July Resolution 10 2008 at 11.00am to consider the following resolutions: That Joachim Eberhardt be re-elected as a director.
Ordinary Resolutions Resolution 11 That Richard Hooper be re-elected as a director.
Resolution 1 That the report of the directors and auditors, and the audited Resolution 12 accounts of the Company, for the year ended 31 March 2008 That Tim Bunting be re-elected as a director.
As a matter of best practice, all of the directors of the The directors are required by law to present to the shareholders Company believe that they should retire and submit of the Company at a general meeting the report of the directors themselves for re-election at the 2008 Annual General and auditors, and the audited accounts of the Company, for the Meeting.
Biographical details of all of the directors of the year ended 31 March 2008.
The report of the directors and the Company may be found in the Annual Report of the Company audited accounts have been approved by the directors, and the starting at page 38. report of the auditors has been approved by the auditors, and a copy of each of these documents may be found in the Annual Resolution 13 Report of the Company starting at page 40.
That  LLP be re-appointed auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the Resolution 2 next general meeting of the Company before which accounts That the final dividend of 5.7 pence per ordinary share in the are laid.
Company recommended by the directors be declared and, if approved, payable on 1 August 2008 to holders of ordinary The auditors are responsible for examining the annual shares in the Company registered at the close of business on accounts of the Company and forming an opinion as to 4 July 2008. whether they give a true and fair view of its results and financial position.
It is a requirement of law that the Company It is a requirement of law that the final dividend for the year appoint auditors at each meeting at which accounts are ended 31 March 2008 be approved by the shareholders of the presented to its shareholders, such appointment to continue Company.
The amount to be declared as a final dividend may until the next meeting at which accounts are presented.
not exceed the amount recommended by the directors.
Resolution 14 Resolution 3 That the directors be authorised to determine the That the report on the remuneration of directors for the year remuneration of the auditors.
This resolution gives the directors of the Company the Listed companies are required to include certain specified authority to determine the remuneration of the auditors for information on the remuneration of their directors for each the audit work to be carried out by them in the next financial financial year in a report and to give their shareholders an year.
The amount of the remuneration paid to the auditors for opportunity to approve such report.
The report on the the next financial year will be disclosed in the next audited remuneration of the directors of the Company for the year accounts of the Company.
ended 31 March 2008 may be found in the Annual Report of the Company starting at page 44.
Resolution 15 That the directors be generally and unconditionally Resolution 4 authorised under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to That John Condron be re-elected as a director.
exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in that Act up to an aggregate nominal 103 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 amount of 2,592,204.
This authority will expire at the no intention of changing that policy.
However, as a result conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, of the wide definitions in the Companies Act 2006, normal 15 months from the date of this resolution.
However, before expenditure such as expenditure on organisations concerned this authority expires, the Company may make an offer or with matters of public policy, law reform and representation agreement which would or might require relevant securities of the business community and business activities such as to be allotted after the authority expires and the directors communicating with the Government and political parties may allot relevant securities under any such offer or at local, national and European level might be construed as agreement as if the authority had not expired.
political expenditure or as a donation to a political party or other political organisation and fall within the restrictions of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 provides that the the Companies Act 2006. directors of a company cannot issue new shares in its capital without the approval of its shareholders.
Accordingly, the This resolution does not purport to authorise any particular purpose of this resolution is to give the directors of the donation or expenditure but is expressed in general terms Company authority to issue new shares in the capital of the as required by the Companies Act 2006 and is intended to Company up to a maximum amount of 2,592,204 which is authorise normal donations and expenditure.
If passed, approximately equivalent to 33.2 per cent of the issued resolution 16 would allow the Company and its subsidiaries ordinary share capital of the Company as at 3 June 2008.
This to make donations to political parties, other political resolution will allow the directors of the Company flexibility to organisations and independent election candidates and to act in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders incur political expenditure as defined in the Companies Act by issuing new shares in appropriate circumstances.
The 2006 up to an aggregate limit of 100,000 during the period directors have no present plans to exercise this authority.
up to 12 months after the passing of the resolution.
This will allow the Company to continue to support the community and Resolution 16 put forward its views to wider business and Government That in accordance with sections 366 and 367 of the interests without running the risk of being in breach of the law.
Companies Act 2006 the Company and all companies that Any political donation made or political expenditure incurred are its subsidiaries at any time during the period for which which is in excess of 200 will be disclosed in the Companys this resolution has effect be authorised to: Report and Accounts for next year, as required by the Companies Act 2006. a make political donations to political parties or independent election candidates as such terms are Special Resolutions defined in the Companies Act 2006, not exceeding 100,000 in aggregate: Resolution 17 That the Articles of Association in the form produced to this b make political donations to political organisations other Annual General Meeting and initialled by the Chairman for than political parties as such terms are defined in the the purposes of identification be adopted as the new Articles Companies Act 2006, not exceeding 100,000 in of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the aggregate: and exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
c incur political expenditure as such term is defined in the The new Articles of Association that are proposed reflect Companies Act 2006, not exceeding 100,000 in amendments to company law made by those provisions aggregate, of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act relating to directors conflicts of interest which will come in to force during the period beginning on the date of this resolution on 1 October 2008. and ending on the date falling 12 months after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the Annual The 2006 Act sets out directors general duties which largely General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2009, provided codify the existing law, but with some changes.
Under the that the maximum authorised amounts referred to in a, b 2006 Act, from 1 October 2008 a director must avoid a and c may be comprised of one or more sums in different situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect currencies which, for the purposes of calculating the said interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the amounts, shall be converted at such rate as the Board may interests of the Company.
The requirement is very broad and in its absolute discretion determine to be appropriate.
could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The Resolution 16 concerns Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise which came into force on 1 October 2007 and provides that conflicts and potential conflicts where appropriate, if the political donations made by a company to political parties, Articles of Association contain a provision to this effect.
The to other political organisations and to independent election 2006 Act also allows the Articles to contain other provisions candidates or political expenditure incurred by a company for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a must be authorised in advance by shareholders.
The new Articles give the directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to It is not the policy of the Company to make political donations allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to of the type caught by these provisions and the directors have the current position.
104 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 Financial & shareholder information There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 gives existing whether or not to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
shareholders in a company certain pre-emption rights with First, only directors who have no interest in the matter being respect to allotments of new shares.
A company can only considered will be allowed to take the relevant decision, and disapply these rights with the approval of its shareholders.
secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act in a way Accordingly, the purpose of this resolution is to allow the they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the directors of the Company to allot ordinary shares in the Companys success.
The directors will be able to impose limits Company for cash, or to transfer treasury shares for cash, or conditions when giving the authorisation, if they think this on a non-pre-emptive basis a in connection with a rights is appropriate.
issue and b other than in connection with a rights issue up to a maximum amount of 390,550 which is equivalent to It is also proposed that the new Articles should contain approximately 5 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital provisions relating to confidential information, attendance of the Company as at 3 June 2008 and is in line with the at board meetings and availability of board papers to protect recommended guidelines issued by institutional investor a director being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or bodies.
potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict Resolution 19 has previously been authorised by the directors.
That, pursuant to Article 20 of its Articles of Association, the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to It is the boards intention to report annually on the Companys purchase its own fully-paid ordinary shares in the Company procedures for ensuring that the boards powers of by way of market purchases within the meaning of section authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and that the 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 provided that: procedures have been followed.
a the maximum number of ordinary shares in the Company As the Government intends to bring in to force the provisions that the Company may purchase is 78,109,963: of the 2006 Act in various stages until 1 October 2009, it is anticipated that shareholders may be asked to approve b the minimum price that the Company may pay for an further changes to our Articles of Association during the ordinary share in the Company is 1.00 pence: course of the next Annual General Meeting as may be necessary.
c the maximum price which the Company may pay for an ordinary share in the Company shall be the higher of: Resolution 18 That the directors be authorised under section 95 of the i an amount equivalent to 105 per cent of the average of Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities as defined the middle market quotations for an ordinary share in in section 94 of that Act for cash pursuant to the authority the Company as set out in the Daily Official List conferred on them by resolution 15, or where such allotment published by London Stock Exchange for the five constitutes the allotment of equity securities by virtue of business days immediately before the day on which section 94 3A of that Act, as if section 89 1 of that Act did the Company agrees to purchase ordinary shares in not apply to any such allotment.
This authority is limited to: the Company: and a allotments connected to a rights issue, open offer or other ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade offer of securities to holders of ordinary shares in the and highest current independent bid on the London Company excluding any ordinary shares held by the Stock Exchange Trading System SETS the trading Company as treasury shares where the rights of each such venue where the purchase is carried out : and holder are, as nearly as may be, proportionate to the number of ordinary shares held by such holder.
The d this authority will expire at the conclusion of the next directors may exclude certain shareholders, deal with Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the fractions and generally manage the rights issue as they date of this resolution.
However, before this authority think fit: and expires, the Company may agree to purchase ordinary shares in the Company where the purchase will or may be b the allotment other than pursuant to sub-paragraph a completed, either fully or partly, after the authority expires above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal and the Company may purchase such ordinary shares as if value of 390,550. the authority had not expired.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual The directors consider that, in certain circumstances, it may be General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of this appropriate and in the best interests of shareholders generally resolution.
However, before this authority expires, the for the Company to purchase its own shares.
This resolution Company may make an offer or agreement which would or gives authority for the Company to purchase up to 78,109,963 might require equity securities to be allotted after the authority ordinary shares which is approximately equivalent to 10 per expires and the directors may allot securities under any such cent of the issued share capital of the Company as at 3 June offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
The directors have no present plans to exercise any authority granted by this resolution in the future, but will keep 105 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 the matter under review and will only make purchases where, Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities in the light of prevailing market conditions, they consider it will Regulations 2001, the time by which a person must be entered result in an increase in earnings per ordinary share in the on the register of members to have the right to attend or vote Company and would be in the interests of shareholders at the Meeting and for determining the number of shares held generally.
is 6.00pm on 23 July 2008 or, if the Meeting is adjourned, 6.00pm on the date which is two days prior to the adjourned The total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares Meeting.
Entries on the register of members after that time in the Company outstanding as at 3 June 2008 was 32,789,392. will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to This represents 4.2 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital attend or to vote and the number of votes they may cast at of the Company at that date.
If the Company were to buy back the Meeting.
the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to the passing of this resolution and cancel them, then the total Electronic Proxy Voting number of options to subscribe for shares in the Company You may, if you wish, register the appointment of a proxy or outstanding as at 3 June 2008 would represent voting instructions for the meeting electronically by logging 4.66 per cent of the reduced issued ordinary share capital onto www.
You will need to use a 24-digit of the Company.
number made up of your Reference Number, Card ID and Account Number printed on your proxy form.
Full details of the The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares procedure are given on the website.
The proxy appointment Regulations 2003 enable companies to retain any of their own and or voting instructions must be received by Equiniti not shares they have purchased as treasury shares with a view to later than 11.00am on 23 July 2008.
Please note that any their possible re-issue at a later date, rather than cancelling electronic communication sent to the Registrars that is found them as the law previously required.
The Company will to contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
The use of consider holding any of its own shares that it purchases the internet service in connection with the Annual General pursuant to this resolution as treasury shares, which will give Meeting is governed by Equinitis conditions of use set out the directors flexibility in the management of the capital base on the website, www.
co. uk, and may be read by of the Company.
No dividends will be paid on treasury shares logging onto the site.
while held in treasury, and no voting rights will attach to them.
Crest Voting The directors of the Company consider that all the proposals CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies to be considered at the Annual General Meeting are in the through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may best interests of its shareholders as a whole and they do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 25 July recommend that you vote in favour of them.
2008 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or Appointment of a Proxy and Voting other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members A member of the Company is entitled to appoint a proxy who who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer need not be a member of the Company to exercise all or any to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will of his her rights to attend and speak and vote at the Meeting.
be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to the for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST rights attached to different shares held by him her.
Appointing Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in a proxy does not preclude you from attending the Meeting accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds EUI and voting in person.
If you attend the Meeting in person, your specifications and must contain the information required for proxy appointment will automatically be terminated.
such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment A Form of Proxy Form of Direction is enclosed for use in of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a connection with the Annual General Meeting, if desired.
Notes previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be on completing the Form of Proxy Form of Direction can be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent found on the relevant form and should be read carefully ID 7RA01 by 11.00am on 23 July 2008.
For this purpose, the before the form is completed.
time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST For ordinary shareholders a Form of Proxy is enclosed.
Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner For participants in the Companys all employee share prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions ownership plans a Form of Direction to the trustee is to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated enclosed.
to the appointee through other means.
These forms can be completed and posted to the Companys CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors registrars, Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, or voting service providers should note that EUI does not make West Sussex BN99 6LU.
To be valid, the completed forms must available special procedures in CREST for any particular reach the Companys registrars not later than 11.00am on messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will 23 July 2008. therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy 106 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 Financial & shareholder information Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member Total voting rights concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST Personal As at 2 June 2008 being the latest business day prior to the Member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting consists of 781,099,633 ordinary shares, carrying one vote service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to each, and the Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST Therefore the total voting rights in the Company are system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST 781,099,633. members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of Annual General Meeting to communicate with the of the CREST system and timings.
Company or Equiniti for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Documents Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
The following documentation is available for inspection during business hours at the registered office of the Company and at Corporate Representatives the offices of Herbert Smith LLP, Level 1, Exchange House, In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the Primrose Street, London EC2A 2HS on any weekday not meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the time of the including public holidays.
They will also be available for meeting so that: inspection at the Annual General Meeting venue, from 9.30am until the meeting concludes: i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with Register of interests of directors and their families in the instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the share capital of the Company.
directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those Copy of all service contracts between the directors and the corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Company.
Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those Copy of the existing and proposed new Articles of directions: and Association of the Company.
ii if more than one corporate representative for the same Printed copies of this Notice of Annual General Meeting and corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the the Companys Annual Report 2008. corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated Further copies of the Companys Annual Report can be sent to corporate representative will be nominated from those shareholders on request, or viewed on the Companys website corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a at www.
poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to the designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by By order of the Board the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
Rights of nominated persons Howard Rubenstein Please note that if you are an indirect investor and have been Company Secretary nominated to receive communication from the Company in 3 June 2008 accordance with section 146 of the 2006 Act by a person who holds shares on your behalf the registered shareholder, you Registered Office: do not have the right to appoint a proxy.
However, you may Queens Walk, Reading have a right under an agreement with the registered Berkshire RG1 7PT shareholder to be appointed or have somebody else Registered in England and Wales No.
Alternatively, if you do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, you may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the registered shareholder as to the exercise of such voting rights.
107 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008
