Reports Description of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual financial statements Company law requires the directors to prepare financial The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting statements for each financial year that give a true and fair records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group financial position of the Company and the Group and enable and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for In preparing those financial statements the directors are safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and required to: hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
The directors are responsible for maintaining the integrity of Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and the financial information, including the Annual Report, on the prudent.
Yell Group plc website, www.
Legislation in the State whether applicable accounting standards have been UK concerning the preparation and dissemination of financial followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
explained in the financial statements.
Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Responsibility statement The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: Signed 3 June 2008 on behalf of the Board by: The Group and parent company financial statements for Yell Group plc the Company, prepared in accordance with the applicable United Kingdom law and in conformity with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the John Condron John Davis consolidation taken as a whole: and Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer The management report which comprises the Directors Report including the business review includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
43 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008
