Health and safety Purchase of own shares We are committed to providing our people with a safe and Yell is, until the date of the next AGM, generally and healthy working environment.
We have a team of professionals unconditionally authorised to buy back up to 10% of its issued and a committee within Yell UK who manage our health and share capital at 4 June 2007 77,932,731 shares.
The team develops and maintains our purchase has been made.
health and safety policies and procedures and provides guidance on safe working.
Statement as to disclosure of information to Auditors Each director of Yell confirms that: a so far as he is aware, Our people and our contractors are required to report all health there is no relevant audit information of which Yells Auditors and safety incidents and accidents on our online system.
In are unaware: and b that he has taken all the steps that he 2008, our accident rate for the UK at 0.03% was extremely low.
ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that Approach to share ownership Yells Auditors are aware of that information.
For these We actively encourage our people to share in the future of Yell.
purposes, relevant audit information means information An employee ShareSave scheme operates in the UK, and a needed by Yells Auditors in connection with preparing their Stock Purchase Plan operates for our people in the US.
We are report set out on pages 56 and 57. currently considering ways in which a similar scheme could be operated in Yell Publicidad.
Auditors Resolutions to re-appoint  LLP as Financial instruments auditors of Yell and to authorise the directors to determine Please see notes 14 and 15 to the financial statements for their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General details in relation to Yells use of financial instruments.
 LLP have confirmed their willingness to continue in office.
Policy and practice on payment of creditors It is Yells policy to use its purchasing power fairly and to pay Annual General Meeting promptly and as agreed.
Payment terms for purchases under The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, to be held on major contracts are settled as part of the contract 25 July 2008, together with an explanation of the business to negotiations.
In the UK and US, it is Yells practice to make be dealt with at the meeting, appears on pages 103 to 107. payments for other purchases within 30 days following the end of the month in which a correct and valid invoice is By order of the Board received.
In other countries in which we operate, payment terms are usually longer and are dictated by local custom.
At 31 March 2008 trade payables represented 39 days 2007 - 29.8 days of purchases.
Yell has no significant trade creditors.
Howard Rubenstein Post balance sheet events Company Secretary There are no post balance sheet events.
3 June 2008 42 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008
