DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Other statutory and regulatory information Applying the principles of the Combined Code Oversight ensuring an effective system of internal controls is on Corporate Governance in place, ensuring that the Board receives timely and accurate The Board has structured its activities so as to incorporate information on the performance of the Group and the proper the main and supporting principles in the UKs Combined Code, delegation of authority: and recognising these to be a sound statement of accepted good People ensuring the Group is managed by individuals with the practice for a company such as BAE Systems.
The core activities necessary skills and experience, and that appointments to the of the Board and its committees are documented and planned Board are managed effectively.
on an annual basis but this only forms the basic structure within which the Board operates.
The directors are required to provide The Board Charter states that the Chief Executive is responsible for entrepreneurial leadership for the Company, relying on the the leadership and operational management of the Company within business skills and judgement that each director possesses.
the strategy and business plan agreed by the Board.
Included within The governance structure recognises this essential human the Charter is a schedule of matters that have been reserved for element and the role of the Chairman in ensuring that decisions the Boards decision.
These include approving the vision, values, are made by the directors within a framework of prudent and principles of ethical conduct, overall governance structure of the effective controls.
Company, and its strategy and business plans.
Within the Boards delegated authorities it has reserved for itself, amongst other The Board has adopted a document, the Board Charter, in things, certain decisions concerning contract bids and tenders, which there is a statement of governance principles that guide acquisitions and disposals of businesses, capital expenditure the activities of the Board and also details of the roles of the and Company-funded product development expenditure.
Chairman, Chief Executive and the Senior Independent Director.
The governance principles reflect the main and supporting A copy of the Board Charter can be found on the Companys website, principles contained in the Combined Code, and cover or alternatively, can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
the following: Compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code Strategy reviewing and agreeing strategy: The Company was compliant with the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance throughout 2008.
Performance monitoring the performance of the Group and also evaluating its own performance: Standards and Values setting standards and values to guide the affairs of the Group: The attendance by individual directors at meetings of the Board and its committees in 2008 was as follows: Corporate Non-Executive Audit Responsibility Nominations Remuneration Directors Fees Director Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Mr P Carroll 9 9 5 6 Mr M J Hartnall 8 9 6 6 Mr W Havenstein 8 9 1 1 Mr A G Inglis 8 9 5 5 Mr I G King 7 9 Sir Peter Mason 9 9 6 6 6 6 1 1 Mr R L Olver 9 9 6 6 1 1 Mr R Quarta 7 9 5 6 6 7 Mr G W Rose 9 9 Sir Nigel Rudd 7 9 4 5 7 7 1 Mr C G Symon 5 5 3 3 2 MrMJTurner 7 7 1 1 3 Mr R K Uppal 7 7 4 4 4 MrPAWeinberg 3 4 1 1 1 2 Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended.
1 Appointed to the Board on 11 June 2008.
2 Retired from the Board on 31 August 2008.
3 Appointed to the Board on 2 April 2008.
4 Retired from the Board on 7 May 2008.
com The Board The Board has appointed Sir Peter Mason as the Senior Independent The Board comprises a non-executive chairman, eight non-executive Director.
Amongst the duties undertaken by Sir Peter during the directors and three executive directors.
year was to meet with the non-executive directors without the Chairman present to discuss the Chairmans performance.
The Board considers all of the non-executive directors, with the exception of the Chairman, to be independent for the purposes The Companys Articles of Association require that all new of the Combined Code.
Each of these directors has been identified directors seek re-election to the Board at the following Annual on pages 64 and 65 of this report.
In addition, all directors are required to stand down and seek re-election to the Board at least once every Following appointment to the Board, directors undertake an three years.
induction programme aimed at familiarising them with the Company.
The programme for directors joining during 2008 The Board has set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting included the following: their reasons for supporting the re-election of those directors seeking re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Directors duties, corporate governance and board procedures: Internal control Business planning and internal control processes: The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Strategy and planning: Groups system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems, in Metrics used to monitor business performance: accordance with the Combined Code and the Turnbull guidance Investor relations: as revised.
Corporate responsibility including ethical business conduct BAE Systems has developed a system of internal control that and health and safety : and was in place throughout 2008 and to the date of this report, Internal Audit.
that encompasses, amongst other things, the policies, processes, tasks and behaviours that, taken together, seek to: In addition to the above, as part of the induction process, new directors will typically visit the Groups principal operations in facilitate the effective and efficient operation of the Company order to meet employees and gain an understanding of the by enabling it to respond appropriately to significant operational, Groups products and services.
On-going training is provided financial, compliance and other risks that it faces in carrying out for the Board and individual directors as required.
its business: During the year, the Chairman, Dick Olver, retired from the board of assist in ensuring that internal and external reporting is Thomson Reuters plc and was appointed a Business Ambassador accurate and timely, and based on the maintenance of proper for UK Trade & Investment and became a senior adviser to records supported by robust  processes: Clayton, Dubilier & Rice.
and Mr Quarta is a partner in Clayton, Dubilier & Rice CDR and assist in ensuring that the Company complies with applicable Mr Olver and Sir Nigel Rudd are advisers to that firm.
The Board laws and regulations at all times, and also internal policies in has considered Mr Quartas and Sir Nigel Rudds independence respect of the standards of behaviour and conduct mandated in light of the provisions in paragraph A.
3.1 of the Combined by the Board.
Code concerning significant links with other directors through involvement with other companies or bodies.
Following review, Reporting within the Company is structured so that key issues are the Board considers that, for the purposes of the Code, their escalated through the management team ultimately to the Board relationship through CDR does not constitute a significant link.
The Operational Framework provides a common In reaching this determination the following matters were taken framework across the Company for operational and financial into consideration: controls, and is reviewed on a regular basis by the Board.
The business policies and processes detailed within the Operational as advisers to CDR Mr Olver and Sir Nigel Rudd have no Framework draw on global best practice and their application is management responsibilities or oversight obligations in mandated across the organisation.
Lifecycle Management LCM respect of CDR or any of its investments: and is such a process, and promotes the application of best practice Mr Olver and Sir Nigel Rudd have no involvement with the programme execution and facilitates continuous improvement companies that Mr Quarta is a director of, or has management across the Group.
It considers the whole life of projects from responsibility for, within CDR.
inception to delivery into service and eventual disposal, and its application is critical to our capability in delivering projects Mr Olver and Sir Nigel Rudd have undertaken to advise the to schedule and cost.
Board should there be any material change in their relationship with CDR whilst Mr Quarta has an involvement with that firm.
Further key processes are Integrated Business Planning IBP, In 2008 the Board was scheduled to meet eight times and in Quarterly Business Reviews QBR and Performance Centred addition one day was spent reviewing strategy.
The IBP, approved annually by the Board, results meetings are called as required and in total the Board met nine in an agreed long-term strategy for each operating group, together times during the year.
The QBRs evaluate progress BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 95 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Other statutory and regulatory information continued against the IBP and business performance against objectives, Financial review on pages 28 to 34.
Principal risks are detailed measures and milestones.
PCL drives business success by linking on pages 58 to 61.
In addition, the financial statements include, individual goals to those of the organisation, enabling employees amongst other things, notes on finance costs page 120, loans to understand how their own success contributes to the success and overdrafts page 134 and financial risk management of the whole business.
Whilst the quality of the control processes is fundamental to the After making due enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue overall control environment, the consistent application of these processes is equally important.
The consistent application of operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing world-class control processes is a key management objective.
The Company is committed to the protection of its assets, which include the accounts.
human, property and financial resources, through an effective risk Relations with shareholders management process, underpinned where appropriate by insurance.
The Company has a well-developed investor relations programme The Internal Audit team independently reviews the risk identification managed by the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and procedures and control processes implemented by management.
In addition, the Chairman is in regular provides objective assurance as to the operation and validity of the contact with major shareholders and looks to keep them informed systems of internal control through a programme of cyclical reviews of progress on corporate governance matters.
In order to assist in making recommendations for business and control improvements developing an understanding of the views of major shareholders, as required.
each year the Company commissions a survey of investors undertaken by external consultants.
The results of the survey The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee responsibility are presented to the Board.
for reviewing in detail the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls.
Having undertaken such reviews, the The Company maintains a comprehensive Investor Relations website that provides, amongst other things, information on investing in Committee reports to the Board on its findings so that the Board as a whole can take a view on this matter.
In order to assist the BAE Systems and copies of the presentation materials used for key shareholders presentations.
This can be accessed via the Audit Committee and the Board in this review, the Company has developed the Operational Assurance Statement OAS process.
com This has been subject to regular review over a number of years, The AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity to develop which has resulted in a number of refinements being made.
their understanding of the Company and ask questions on the The OAS requires that each part of the business completes matters put to the meeting including this Annual Report.
All a formal review of its compliance against the Operational shareholders are entitled to vote on the resolutions put to the Framework, including operational and financial controls, and AGM and, to ensure that all votes are counted, the Companys risk management processes.
It is signed-off by the managing Articles of Association requires that a poll is taken on all the director of every line of business and relevant functional directors.
resolutions in the Notice of Meeting.
The results of the votes The OAS is completed every six months and includes a formal on the resolutions will be published on the Companys website.
Principal activities The overall responsibility for the system of internal control The BAE Systems Group delivers, through its wholly-owned within BAE Systems rests with the directors of the Company.
subsidiaries and equity accounted investments, a full range Responsibility for establishing and operating detailed control of systems and services for air, land and naval forces, as well procedures lies with the line leaders of each operating business.
as advanced electronics, information technology solutions and customer support services.
In line with any system of internal control, the policies and processes that are mandated in the Operational Framework are Directors designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to The current directors who served during the 2008 financial year achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and are listed on pages 64 to 65.
Of those directors, Ravi Uppal was not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
appointed to the Board on 2 April 2008 and Carl Symon on 11 June 2008.
Peter Weinberg served as a director during the The responsibility for internal control procedures with joint ventures period up to his retirement on 7 May 2008 and Mike Turner and other collaborations rests, on the whole, with the senior served during the period up to his retirement on 31 August 2008. management of those operations.
The Company monitors its investments and exerts influence through Board representation.
Dividend An interim dividend of 5.8p per share was paid on 1 December Going concern 2008.
The directors propose a final dividend of 8.7p per ordinary The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely share.
Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be to affect its future development, performance and position are paid on 1 June 2009 to shareholders on the share register on set out in the Operating group reviews on pages 36 to 44.
The 24 April 2009. financial position of the Group, including information on order book, cash flow, treasury policy and liquidity, can be found in the 96 www.
com Annual General Meeting AGM were disposed of by the Company for nil consideration: the The Companys AGM will be held on 6 May 2009.
The Notice of 3,343,998 treasury shares utilised under the Save-As-You-Earn Annual General Meeting is enclosed with this Annual Report and Option Scheme were disposed of by the Company for a total details the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting.
As at 31 December 2008, the number of shares held in treasury totalled 55,038,953 having Office of Fair Trading undertakings a total nominal value of 1,375,974 and representing 1.54% As a consequence of the merger between British Aerospace and of the Companys called up share capital at 31 December 2008. the former Marconi Electronics Systems businesses in 1999, the Company gave certain undertakings to the Secretary of State The rights to such shares are restricted in accordance with the for Trade and Industry now the Secretary of State for Business, Companies Acts and, in particular, the voting rights attaching to Enterprise and Regulatory Reform.
In February 2007, the Company these shares are automatically suspended.
was released from the majority of these undertakings and the Rights and obligations of ordinary shares remainder have been superseded and varied by a new set of On a show of hands at a general meeting every holder of ordinary undertakings.
Compliance with the undertakings is monitored by a shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall compliance officer.
Further information regarding the undertakings have one vote and, on a poll, every member present in person or and the contact details of the compliance officer may be obtained by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary through the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office share held.
Subject to the relevant statutory provisions and the or through the Companys website.
Companys Articles of Association, holders of ordinary shares Supplier payment policy are entitled to a dividend where declared or paid out of profits It is Group policy that suppliers should be paid in accordance available for such purposes.
Subject to the relevant statutory with the payment terms and conditions stated in the applicable provisions and the Companys Articles of Association, on a return purchase order.
In the UK, the Group is a signatory to the of capital on a winding-up, holders of ordinary shares are entitled, governments Prompt Payment Code, under which it has after repayment of the 1 Special Share, to participate in such undertaken to pay suppliers on time, give clear guidance on a return.
payment procedures and encourage the adoption of the code Rights and obligations of the Special Share throughout its supply chain.
The Special Share is held on behalf of the Secretary of State The average number of days credit provided in 2008 by suppliers for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform the Special was 34 days 2007 39 days.
Certain provisions of the Companys Articles of Association cannot be amended without the consent of the Charitable donations Special Shareholder.
These provisions include the requirement During 2008, the amount donated for charitable purposes in the that no foreign person, or foreign persons acting in concert, UK was 3.4m 2007 1.4m.
Further details of the Companys can have more than a 15% voting interest in the Company, the charitable activities are set out on page 54. requirement that the majority of the directors are British, the Political donations requirement that decisions of the directors at their meetings, No political donations were made in 2008. in their committees or via resolution must be approved by a majority of British directors and the requirement that the Structure of share capital chief executive and any executive chairman are British.
As at 31 December 2008, the Companys authorised share capital of 188,750,001 comprised 4,800,000,000 ordinary shares of The holder of the Special Share is entitled to attend a general 2.5p each, 275,000,000 7.75p net cumulative redeemable meeting, but the Special Share carries no right to vote or any preference shares of 25p each and one Special Share of 1. other rights at any such meeting, other than to speak in relation to any business in respect of the Special Share.
Subject to As at 31 December 2008, BAE Systems issued share capital of the relevant statutory provisions and the Companys Articles of 89,545,439 comprised 3,581,817,533 ordinary shares of 2.5p Association, on a return of capital on a winding-up, the Special each and one Special Share of 1.
Share shall be entitled to repayment of the 1 capital paid up Treasury shares on the Special Share in priority to any repayment of capital to No treasury shares were acquired by the Company during 2008. any other members.
As at 1 January 2008, the number of shares held in treasury The holder of the Special Share has the right to require the totalled 61,945,000 having a total nominal value of 1,548,625 Company to redeem the Special Share at par or convert the and representing 1.73% of the Companys called up share capital Special Share into one ordinary share at any time.
During 2008, the Company used 6,906,047 treasury shares having a total nominal value of 172,651 and representing 0.19% of the Companys called up share capital at 31 December 2008 to satisfy awards under the Free and Matching elements of the Share Incentive Plan and options under the Save-As-You-Earn Share Option Scheme.
The 3,562,049 treasury shares utilised in respect of the Share Incentive Plan BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 97 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Other statutory and regulatory information continued Restrictions on transfer of securities Significant direct and indirect holders of securities The restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company are As at 18 February 2009, the Company had been advised of the as follows: following significant direct and indirect interests in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: the Special Share may only be issued to, held by and transferred Name of shareholder Percentage notified to the Special Shareholder or his successor or nominee: AXA S. A. and its group of companies 9.02% the directors shall not register any allotment or transfer of any Barclays PLC 3.98% shares to a foreign person, or foreign persons acting in concert, who at the time have more than a 15% voting interest in the Franklin Resources Inc, and affiliates 4.92% Company, or who would, following such allotment or transfer, Legal & General Group Plc 4.07% have such an interest: BlackRock, Inc 4.96% the directors shall not register any person as a holder of any shares unless they have received: i a declaration stating Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes that upon registration, the share s will not be held by foreign The Trustees of the employee trusts do not seek to exercise persons or that upon registration the share s will be held by voting rights on shares held in the employee trusts other than a foreign person or persons: ii such evidence if any as the on the direction of the underlying beneficiaries.
No voting directors may require of the authority of the signatory of the rights are exercised in relation to shares unallocated to declaration: and iii such evidence or information if any as individual beneficiaries.
to the matters referred to in the declaration as the directors Restrictions on voting deadlines consider appropriate: The notice of any general meeting shall specify the deadline for the directors may, in their absolute discretion, refuse to register exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote any transfer of shares which are not fully paid up but not so as in relation to resolutions to be proposed at the general meeting.
to prevent dealings in listed shares from taking place : The number of proxy votes for, against or withheld in respect of the directors may also refuse to register any instrument of each resolution are publicised on the Companys website after the meeting.
transfer of shares unless the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share and it is lodged at the place where Appointment and replacement of directors the register of members is kept, accompanied by a relevant Subject to certain nationality requirements mentioned below, certificate or such other evidence as the directors may the Company may by ordinary resolution appoint any person to reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to be a director.
make the transfer: The majority of directors holding office must be British.
Otherwise the directors may refuse to register an allotment or transfer the directors who are not British shall vacate office in such order of shares in favour of more than four persons jointly: that those who have been in office for the shortest period since where a shareholder has failed to provide the Company with their appointment shall vacate their office first, unless all of the directors otherwise agree among themselves.
Any director who certain information relating to their interest in shares, the directors can, in certain circumstances, refuse to register holds the office of either chairman in an executive capacity or chief executive shall also be British.
a transfer of such shares: certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws The Company must have six directors holding office at all times.
If the number is reduced to below six, then such number of and regulations for example, insider trading laws : persons shall be appointed as directors as soon as is reasonably restrictions may be imposed pursuant to the Listing Rules of practicable to reinstate the number of directors to six.
The the Financial Services Authority whereby certain of the Groups Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time vary employees require the Companys approval to deal in shares: the minimum number of directors.
and At each AGM of the Company, any director who was elected or awards of shares made under the Companys share incentive last re-elected at or before the AGM held in the third calendar plan are subject to restrictions on the transfer of shares year before the then current calendar year must retire by rotation prior to vesting.
and such further directors must retire by rotation so that in total one-third of the directors retire by rotation each year.
A retiring The Company is not aware of any arrangements between its shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer director is eligible for re-election.
of shares and or voting rights.
Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Where class rights are varied, such amendments must be approved by the members of each class of shares separately.
com In addition, certain provisions of the Articles of Association cannot quorum.
Any authorisation granted may be terminated at any be amended without the consent of the Special Shareholder.
time and the director is informed of the obligation to inform the These provisions include the requirement that no foreign person, Company without delay should there be any material change in the nature of the conflict or potential conflict so authorised.
The or foreign persons acting in concert, can have more than a 15% Nominations Committee has been asked to review on an annual voting interest in the Company, the requirement that the majority basis any authorisations granted and to make recommendations of the directors are British, the requirement that decisions of the to the Board as appropriate.
directors at their meetings, in their committees or via resolution must be approved by a majority of British directors and the Directors indemnities requirement that the chief executive and any executive chairman The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with all its are British.
current directors and those persons who were directors for any part of 2008 which are qualifying indemnity provisions for the At the 2009 AGM a special resolution will be put to shareholders purpose of the Companies Act 2006.
A similar indemnity has proposing amendments to the existing Articles of Association been provided to Sir Richard Evans, a former director who retired primarily in order to accommodate the provisions of the new from the Board on 30 June 2004 but up to 29 February 2008 was Companies Act 2006. employed by the Company in a part-time customer relationship role.
Powers of the directors The directors of BAE Systems 2000 Pension Plan Trustees Limited The directors are responsible for the management of the business and BAE Systems Executive Pension Scheme Trustees Limited of the Company and may exercise all powers of the Company benefit from indemnities in the governing documentation of the subject to applicable legislation and regulation and the BAE Systems 2000 Pension Plan and the BAE Systems Executive Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Pension Scheme, respectively, which are qualifying indemnity At the 2008 AGM, the directors were given the power to buy provisions for the purpose of the Companies Act 2006. back a maximum number of 351,337,974 ordinary shares at a All such indemnity provisions are in force as at the date of this minimum price of 2.5p each.
The maximum price was an amount Directors report.
equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations of the Companys ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock Change of control significant agreements Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling preceding the day on which such ordinary shares are contracted the counterparties to exercise termination, alteration or other to be purchased.
This power will expire at the earlier of the similar rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: conclusion of the 2009 AGM or 30 June 2009.
A special resolution The Group has entered into a 1.5bn Revolving Credit Facility will be proposed at the 2009 AGM to renew the Companys dated 1 February 2005 as amended and a 500m Letter of authority to acquire its own shares.
Credit Facility dated 27 March 2006, which provide that, in the At the 2008 AGM, the directors were given the power to issue new event of a change of control of the Company, the lenders are shares up to an amount of 29,275,236.
This power will expire entitled to renegotiate terms, or if no agreement is reached on the earlier of the conclusion of the 2009 AGM or 30 June on negotiated terms within a certain period, to call for the 2009.
Accordingly, a resolution will be proposed at the 2009 AGM repayment or cancellation of the facilities.
The Revolving to renew the Companys authority to issue further new shares.
Credit Facility was undrawn as at 31 December 2008.
Conflicts of interest The Company has entered into a Restated and Amended During 2008 provisions in the Companies Act 2006 concerning Shareholders Agreement with European Aeronautic Defence a directors duties in dealing with actual or potential conflicts of and Space Company EADS N. V. EADS and Finmeccanica S. p. A interest became effective.
In accordance with these provisions, Finmeccanica relating to MBDA S. A. S. dated 18 December shareholders approved changes to the Companys Articles of 2001 as amended.
In the event that control of the Company Association to allow directors to authorise such conflicts.
passes to certain specified third party acquirors, the agreement allows EADS and Finmeccanica to exercise an option to terminate To avoid potential conflicts of interest the Board requires the certain executive management level nomination and voting rights Nominations Committee to check that any individuals it nominates and certain shareholder information rights of the Company in for appointment to the Board are free of potential conflicts, and relation to the MBDA joint venture.
Following the exercise of this the committees terms of reference were amended in 2008 to option, the Company would have the right to require the other reflect this.
In addition, the Boards procedures and the induction shareholders to purchase its interest in MBDA at fair market programme for new directors emphasise a directors personal value.
The Company and EADS have agreed that if Finmeccanica responsibility for complying with the duties relating to conflicts of acquires a controlling interest in the Company, EADS will interest.
The procedure adopted by the Board for the authorisation increase its shareholding in MBDA to 50% by purchasing the of conflicts reminds directors of the need to consider their duties appropriate number of shares in MBDA at fair market value.
as directors and not grant an authorisation unless they believe, in good faith, that this would be likely to promote the success of the Company.
As required by law, the potentially conflicted director cannot vote on an authorisation resolution or be counted in the BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 99 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Other statutory and regulatory information continued The Company, BAE Systems North America Inc. now BAE Systems, Statement of directors responsibilities in respect Inc. and BAE Systems Holdings Inc. entered into a Special of the Annual Report and financial statements Security Agreement dated 29 November 2000 with the The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and US Department of Defense regarding the management of the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance BAE Systems, Inc. in order to comply with the US governments with applicable law and regulations.
In the event of a change of Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent control of the Company, the Agreement may be terminated company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that or altered by the US Department of Defense.
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements The Company has entered into a Joint Venture Agreement with in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable VT Group plc and BVT Surface Fleet Limited dated 1 July 2008. law, and have elected to prepare the parent company financial In the event that a third party together, if applicable, with statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and persons acting in concert with any such third party acquires applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
a controlling interest of greater than 30% in the Company, The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as VT Group plc may exercise a put option requiring the Company adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and the to purchase its interest in BVT Surface Fleet Limited at the higher performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides of 380m and the fair market value on exit of such interest, in relation to such financial statements that references in the subject to downward adjustment for certain matters.
relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true In addition, the Companys share plans contain provisions as a result and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
of which options and awards may vest and become exercisable on The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a change of control of the Company in accordance with the rules a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial Persons with whom the Company has essential contractual and statements, the directors are required to: other arrangements The Companys largest customers for its products and services select suitable accounting policies and then apply them are the governments of the United Kingdom, the United States, the consistently: Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Australia.
In the US, BAE Systems make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and is subject to the Special Security Agreement that safeguards prudent: US national security interests, as a result of which BAE Systems is allowed to supply products and services of a highly sensitive for the Group financial statements, state whether they have nature to the US government.
Likewise, in Australia, BAE Systems been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: is subject to an Overarching Deed with the Commonwealth of for the parent company financial statements, state whether Australia that protects the Commonwealth of Australias national applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, security and other interests and allows the Company to own certain subject to any material departures disclosed and explained Australian defence-related industrial assets.
Agreements between in the parent company financial statements: and the governments of the United Kingdom and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia relating to defence co-operation programmes continue to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis remain essential to the development of the Companys business unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the in Saudi Arabia.
parent company will continue in business.
Auditors The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting KPMG Audit Plc, the auditors for the Company, have indicated records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the their willingness to continue in office and a resolution proposing financial position of the parent company and enable them to their re-appointment will be put to the AGM.
ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a directors report, directors remuneration report and corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
com Statement of disclosure of information to auditors The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Responsibility statement of the directors in respect of the annual financial report Each of the directors listed below confirms that to the best of his knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business, and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Dick Olver Chairman Ian King Chief Executive Walt Havenstein Chief Operating Officer BAE Systems, Inc. George Rose Group Finance Director Phil Carroll Non-executive director Michael Hartnall Non-executive director Andy Inglis Non-executive director Sir Peter Mason Non-executive director Roberto Quarta Non-executive director Sir Nigel Rudd Non-executive director Carl Symon Non-executive director Ravi Uppal Non-executive director By order of the Board David Parkes Company Secretary 18 February 2009 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Financial statementsand shareholder information Financial statements and shareholder information contents 6 Independent auditors report 105 Consolidated financial statements 106 Notes to the Group accounts 110 Company balance sheet 159 Notes to the Company accounts 160 Detica NerveCentre uses interactive Five-year summary 168 whiteboards to facilitate presentations, demonstrations and discussions.
Shareholder information 170 Fully integrated into the Detica Financial calendar 171 NerveCentre technical infrastructure, Glossary 172 these whiteboards enable Detica staff and clients to work collaboratively Annual Report online 173 and efficiently, capturing ideas and Shareholder feedback 173 solutions generated in digital form.
com BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Index to the accounts Note Page Note Page Independent auditors report to the members of BAE Systems plc 105 Index to the Group accounts Index to the Company accounts Accounting policies 1 110 Accounting policies 1 160 Acquisition of subsidiaries 31 151 Company balance sheet 159 Changes in accounting policies 2 115 Contingent liabilities and commitments 10 165 Consolidated balance sheet 107Creditors 8 164 Consolidated cash flow statement 108 Current asset investments 5 163 Consolidated income statement 106Debtors 4 163 Employee share schemes 12 166 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 109 Fixed asset investments 3 162 Contingent liabilities and commitments 24 142 Loans and overdrafts 7 164 Disposal groups 19 133 Other financial assets and liabilities 6 163 Disposals 9 124 Other information 15 167 Dividends 30 150 Provisions for liabilities and charges 9 164 Earnings per share 10 125Reserves 13 167 Employees and directors 7 Share capital 11 121 165 Equity accounted investments 14 Statutory reserve 14 130 167 Events after the balance sheet date 35 Tangible fixed assets 2 158 162 Finance costs 6 120 Financial risk management 32 155 Five-year summary 168 Group entities 34 158 Intangible assets 11 126 Inventories 18 133 Investment property 13 129 Loans and overdrafts 20 134 Net cash as defined by the Group 29 149 Operating costs 4 119 Other financial assets and liabilities 17 133 Other income 5 120 Other investments 15 131 Property, plant and equipment 12 127 Provisions 23 141 Reconciliation of movement in capital and reserves 27 147 Reconciliation of operating business cash flow 28 148 Related party transactions 33 158 Retirement benefit obligations 22 136 Segmental analysis 3 116 Share-based payments 26 144 Share capital 25 143 Tax 8 122 Trade and other payables 21 135 Trade and other receivables 16 132 104 www.
