DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY Operational Framework The Board promotes a common culture and How we manage identity through the Operational Framework.
It sets out the way we do business and what our business to it means to be part of the Group.
It is the Groups framework for a sound system of deliver on our internal controls.
All employees are required to comply with the Operational Framework strategy in their business conduct.
The Chief Executive has established a line leadership organisational Our Operational Framework structure with accountability for business delivery and performance.
To support line leaders, Functional Councils have been established to promote consistent best practice policies and processes Definitions throughout the Group.
Objectives The Executive Committee provides the executive forum in which the operating group and functional leaders come together to Implementation communicate, review issues and agree on actions of Group-wide significance.
See opposite for the organisation chart of the Core Business Organisation Culture Governance executive leadership.
Processes The Chief Executive is responsible for the leadership and Mandated Policies Delegated Authorities BAE Systems Businesses and Processes operational management of the Group to achieve the strategy and business plan agreed by the Board.
This is managed through clearly defined levels of delegated authorities to the line leaders.
Responsibility for establishing and operating the detailed control Objectives and implementation procedures lies with the line leader for each operating business.
BAE Systems is a large global business with responsibilities For joint ventures and other collaborative organisations, similar to its shareholders, customers, partners, employees and the processes and controls are promoted and influence exerted communities in which it operates.
Its strategy is to deliver through Board representation.
sustainable growth in shareholder value.
Culture In support of the Groups strategy, the Board promotes a common The Groups vision, values and ethical principles of business corporate culture and identity as set out in the Operational conduct form the basis of the culture we wish to achieve Framework.
This is based on principles of good governance, a a high-performance culture.
Ethical business conduct is set of definitions, values, policies and processes that guide our fundamental to the Groups reputation and success.
The work and behaviour, and a clear system of delegated authority.
Group will not compromise on its ethical principles and The Operational Framework is mandatory across all wholly and policies.
Further information on ethics, the Groups Corporate majority-owned businesses and describes the Groups approach Responsibility agenda and the Global Code of Conduct is set to its organisation, culture including its vision, values and ethical out on pages 48 to 55. principles of business conduct, governance framework, core business processes and delegated authorities.
Governance and core business processes The Group and its employees are required to comply at all times Operational line leaders ensure that detailed controls both with the laws and regulations of the countries in which it conducts operational and financial are defined and implemented within their business.
The internal controls that line leaders apply to their businesses in accordance with the Operational Framework.
They are businesses reflect the different activities and risk environment required to confirm twice-yearly through the Operational Assurance in which their businesses operate and are based on a common Statement process that their businesses are in compliance with framework of five core business processes and 32 policies the Operational Framework.
This is a mandated policy under the mandated by the Operational Framework.
Operational Framework and a key performance indicator relating to mandated policies and processes.
See page 27 for more details.
Corporate governance, including the five core business processes, is discussed in more detail on pages 66 to 69 and risk management Organisation within BAE Systems is discussed in more detail on pages 56 to 61.
The Board is responsible for the management of the Group.
Its principal aim is to enhance the Groups long-term value for the The Operational Framework is reviewed and revised on a benefit of shareholders.
The members of the Board are shown on six-monthly basis.
The ways in which the Board and its committees discharge their duties are described on pages 66 to 76.
