95 Shareholder information Balfour Beatty actively supports Climate Care, a not-for-profit organisation Financial calendar that funds global sustainable energy and forest restoration projects that 2009 reduce greenhouse gases.
Climate Cares projects also help to improve 22 April Ex-dividend date for final 2008 ordinary dividend peoples standard of living and to protect wildlife habitats.
For more information on Climate Care, visit www.
org 24 April Final 2008 ordinary dividend record date In support of the Climate Care programme, Balfour Beatty will 14 May Annual General Meeting donate 1 to Climate Care for every shareholder that registers to receive 27 May Ex-dividend date for July 2009 preference dividend shareholder communications electronically.
29 May July 2009 preference dividend record date Gifting shares to your family or to charity 10 June Final date for receipt of DRIP mandate forms see below 1 July Preference dividend payable To transfer shares to another member of your family as a gift, please ask the Registrars for a Balfour Beatty gift transfer form.
Alternatively, if you 6 July Final 2008 ordinary dividend payable only have a small number of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to 12 August Announcement of 2009 half-year results sell them, you may wish to consider donating them to the share donation charity ShareGift registered charity no.
1052686, whose work Balfour 10 December Interim 2009 ordinary dividend payable Beatty supports.
Any shares that you donate to ShareGift will be aggregated, sold when possible, and the proceeds will be donated to a wide range of other UK Registrars charities.
Since ShareGift was launched, over 13m has been given to more than 1,500 charities.
The relevant share transfer form may be accessed at All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings and requests to www.
For more information on ShareGift, visit receive corporate documents by email should be directed to the Companys www.
org Registrars and clearly state the shareholders registered address and, if available, the full shareholder reference number.
Please write to: Share dealing services Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, Telephone: 0871 664 0300 from the UK calls cost 10p per minute Capita IRG Trustees Limited provide a telephone and online share dealing plus network extras and 44 20 8639 3399 from outside the UK Monday service for UK and EEA resident shareholders.
To use this service, Friday 9.00 am 5.30 pm, UK time.
Alternatively, you can email them at: shareholders should contact Capita, Telephone: 0871 664 0454 lines are ssd@capitaregistrars.
com open Monday to Friday 8.00 am to 4.30 pm, UK time calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
Alternatively, log on to www.
com They can help you to: The Company has also established an execution-only postal share check your shareholding: dealing service through JPMorgan Cazenove Limited for private investors register a change of address or name: who wish to buy or sell Balfour Beatty plcs shares.
Further details can obtain a replacement dividend cheque or tax voucher: be obtained from The Balfour Beatty Share Dealing Service, JPMorgan record the death of a shareholder: Cazenove Limited, 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA, amalgamate multiple accounts: Telephone: 020 7155 5155. resolve any other question about your shareholding.
An execution-only share dealing service for the purchase and sale of Balfour Beatty shares is also available from NatWest Stockbrokers.
Dividends and dividend reinvestment plan For details, please contact: NatWest Stockbrokers, Waterhouse Square, 138-142 Holborn, London EC1N 2TH, Telephone: 0808 208 4433.
Capita IRG Trustees Limited, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited and If you wish dividends to be paid directly into your bank or building society NatWest Stockbrokers are each authorised and regulated by the Financial account, through the Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS, Services Authority.
you should contact the Registrars for a dividend mandate form.
Balfour Beatty has a dividend reinvestment plan DRIP which allows Share price ordinary shareholders to reinvest their cash dividends in the Companys shares bought in the market through a specially arranged share dealing The Balfour Beatty share price can be found at the Balfour Beatty website service.
Full details of the DRIP and its charges, together with mandate forms, can be accessed at www.
com and in the appropriate sections of national newspapers under the classification Construction and Building Materials.
Shareholder information on the internet and electronic communications It is also available on a number of personal finance websites on the Internet and from television text services.
The Balfour Beatty website at www.
com offers shareholders The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List SEDOL codes are: and prospective investors a range of information about the Company, Ordinary shares: 0096162. its people and businesses and its policies on corporate governance and Preference shares: 0097820. corporate responsibility.
It should be regarded as your first point of reference for information The London Stock Exchange ticker codes are: Ordinary shares: BBY.
In conjunction with Capita Registrars, you can create a Share Portal Preference shares: BBYB.
account, through which you are able to access the full range of online shareholder services, including the ability to: Capital gains tax view your holdings and indicative share price and valuation: For capital gains tax purposes the market value on 31 March 1982 of view movements on your holdings and your dividend payment history: Balfour Beatty plcs ordinary shares of 50p each was 307.3p per share.
register a dividend mandate to have your dividends paid directly into This has been adjusted for the 1-for-5 rights issue in June 1992 and the your bank account: 2-for-11 rights issue in September 1996. change your registered address: sign-up to receive e-communications or access the online proxy Enquiries voting facility: download and print shareholder forms.
Enquiries relating to Balfour Beattys results, business and financial position The Share Portal is easy to use.
should be made in writing to the Corporate Communications Department at Alternatively, you can email: shareportal@capita.
co. uk the Companys Registered Office address or by email to info@balfourbeatty.
com Balfour Beatty plc Registered Office: 130 Wilton Road, London SW1V 1LQ Registered in England Number 395826 Balfour Beatty plc Directors report and accounts 2008 12862 cover final 30 3 09 16:55 Page 1 Print or online?
Directors report and accounts 2008 its quick and easy online... its more environmentally friendly online... its more cost-effective online.
Why not view our online Annual review 2008 at: www.
com bby investors reports INTEGRATED INFRASTRUCTURE Balfour Beatty plc Telephone: 44 0 20 7216 6800 130 Wilton Road Facsimile: 44 0 20 7216 6950 London SW1V1LQ www.
com Balfour Beatty is a registered trademark of Balfour Beatty plc Balfour Beatty plc Annual review 2008 213326 BALFOUR REV COVER CTD:213326 BALFOUR REV COVER CTD 30 3 09 17:48 Page 1 Our business Print or online?
Annual review 2008 100 years of building the future Our business 01 its quick and easy online...
Message from the Chairman 06 Chief Executives review 08 its more environmentally friendly online... Our integrated capability 13 its more cost-effective online.
Markets 24 Operating review: Why not try online?
Building, Building Management and Services 26 Civil and Specialist Engineering and Services 30 Why not view our online Directors report and accounts 2008 at: Rail Engineering and Services 34 www.
com bby investors reports Investments 38 Corporate responsibility 44 INTEGRATED INFRASTRUCTURE Our governance Board of Directors 52 Summary Directors report 54 Summary remuneration report 56 Our summary financial statement Summary Group income statement 59 Summary Group statement of recognised income and expense 59 Summary Group balance sheet 60 Summary Group cash flow statement 61 Notes to the summary financial statement 62 Independent auditors statement to the members of Balfour Beatty plc 64 Shareholder information 65 Balfour Beatty plc Telephone: 44 0 20 7216 6800 130 Wilton Road Facsimile: 44 0 20 7216 6950 London SW1V1LQ www.
com Why not view our online Directors report and accounts 2008 at: Balfour Beatty is a registered trademark of Balfour Beatty plc www.
com bby investors reports Balfour Beatty plc Annual review 2008 213326 BALFOUR REV COVER CTD:213326 BALFOUR REV COVER CTD 30 3 09 17:48 Page 1 Our business Print or online?
com bby investors reports 213326 BALFOUR REV COVER CTD:213326 BALFOUR REV COVER CTD 30 3 09 17:49 Page 2 65 100 years of building the future Shareholder information 1957 1987 CELEBRATING 100 YEARS THE NUCLEAR AGE BEGINS TUNNELVISION Financial calendar Balfour Beatty actively supports Climate Care, a not-for-profit organisation The emerging nuclear power sector provided an Work began on a tunnel connecting England that funds global sustainable energy and forest restoration projects that reduce 2009 exciting new challenge, and in 1957 we began and France, bringing an idea that had existed OF BALFOUR BEATTY greenhouse gases.
Climate Cares projects also help to improve peoples standard work on a power station in Berkeley, USA.
since Napoleonic times to life.
Construction 22 April Ex-dividend date for final 2008 ordinary dividend of living and to protect wildlife habitats.
For more information on Climate Care, was undertaken by a 10-company consortium 24 April Final 2008 ordinary dividend record date visit www.
org 1959 BALFOUR BEATTY HITS 50 in which Balfour Beatty was a leading member.
In support of the Climate Care programme, Balfour Beatty will donate The company celebrated 50 years of power It remains one of the greatest construction 14 May Annual General Meeting development and services as a complete achievements of all time, creating the worlds 1 to Climate Care for every shareholder that registers to receive shareholder 27 May Ex-dividend date for July 2009 preference dividend organisation with design, construction, operation longest 37.5km undersea tunnel in difficult communications electronically.
29 May July 2009 preference dividend record date and management of engineering projects in any geology.
The efficiency of the construction part of the world.
project is worthy of note: from the British side 10 June Final date for receipt of DRIP mandate forms see below Gifting shares to your family or to charity an average progress of 150m per week.
1 July Preference dividend payable To transfer shares to another member of your family as a gift, please ask the 6 July Final 2008 ordinary dividend payable Registrars for a Balfour Beatty gift transfer form.
Alternatively, if you only have 1960 12 August Announcement of 2009 half-year results a small number of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them, you POWER GENERATION may wish to consider donating them to the share donation charity ShareGift 10 December Interim 2009 ordinary dividend payable Balfour Beatty brought vital new power registered charity no.
1052686, whose work Balfour Beatty supports.
George Balfour MP A Scot, who studied generation and transmission capacity to Provisional dates.
Any shares that you donate to ShareGift will be aggregated, sold when mechanical and electrical engineering.
He was Malaysia, Kenya, Tanganyika and Nigeria, 191418 2005 possible, and the proceeds will be donated to a wide range of other UK charities.
commercial engineer and partner of a Dundee where the Kainji dam opened in 1969.
UKS LEADING UTILITIES CONTRACTOR Registrars WORLDWAR ONE Since ShareGift was launched, over 13m has been given to more than engineering rm before joining the London Vital new water systems were also Balfour Beatty became the UKs leading utilities Balfour Beatty played a key role in the war effort, 1,500 charities.
The relevant share transfer form may be accessed at branch of NewYork engineers, JGWhite.
provided in the Jordan Valley.
All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings and requests to receive contractor with a series of high-prole wins in which prompted a shift of focus as our resources MP for Hampstead from 1918 to 1941. www.
For more information on ShareGift, water, gas and electricity.
corporate documents by email should be directed to the Companys Registrars were switched to military purposes.
org Andrew Beatty OBE An English accountant, he major civil engineering project was the construction and clearly state the shareholders registered address and, if available, the full met George Balfour when company secretary of of a major hydro-electric scheme at Kinlochleven, shareholder reference number.
Please write to: JGWhite in London, having previously worked which included building a five-mile aqueduct Share dealing services Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, in Newfoundland and South Russia.
He became in Scotland to supply water to an aluminium Kent BR3 4TU, Telephone: 0871 664 0300 from the UK calls cost 10p per minute a member of the Court of Common Council of manufacturing operation.
Capita IRG Trustees Limited provide a telephone and online share dealing service for plus network extras and 44 20 8639 3399 from outside the UK Monday the City of London, and was awarded an OBE.
UK and EEA resident shareholders.
To use this service, shareholders should contact Friday 9.00 am 5.30 pm, UK time.
Alternatively, you can email them at: Capita, Telephone: 0871 664 0454 lines are open Monday to Friday 8.00 am to ssd@capitaregistrars.
com 4.30 pm, UK time calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
com They can help you to: 1909 1919 1929 1939 1949 1959 1969 1979 1989 1999 2009 The Company has also established an execution-only postal share dealing check your shareholding: service through JPMorgan Cazenove Limited for private investors who wish to buy register a change of address or name: or sell Balfour Beatty plcs shares.
Further details can be obtained from The Balfour From the very beginning to World War II through the blitz, austerity, the age of the car and nuclear power to a world we could never have imagined in a hundred years.
obtain a replacement dividend cheque or tax voucher: Beatty Share Dealing Service, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited, 20 Moorgate, London record the death of a shareholder: EC2R 6DA, Telephone: 020 7155 5155. amalgamate multiple accounts: An execution-only share dealing service for the purchase and sale of resolve any other question about your shareholding.
1995 BARKING POWER Balfour Beatty shares is also available from NatWest Stockbrokers.
For details, STATION COMPLETED 19091940 2006 please contact: NatWest Stockbrokers, Waterhouse Square, 138-142 Holborn, Balfour Beatty completed the 1,000MW Dividends and dividend reinvestment plan London EC1N 2TH, Telephone: 0808 208 4433.
BALFOUR BEATTY FOUNDED FIRST GENERAL HOSPITAL IN WORLDWARTWO combined cycle gas-red plant in east London, Capita IRG Trustees Limited, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited and NatWest FIRSTS BIRMINGHAM FOR OVER 70YEARS THE CHURCHILL BARRIERS at a cost of 370m.
The low emissions station If you wish dividends to be paid directly into your bank or building society account, Our first commission:Taking over the operation The Group reached financial close on the 559m Stockbrokers are each authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Our support for the war effort included the generates at better than 50% thermal efficiency through the Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS, you should contact the of tramways in Kent and Bedfordshire brought in hospital project, which is the largest healthcare construction of the Churchill Barriers in the and helped to prepare Balfour Beatty for its Registrars for a dividend mandate form.
our first 5,000. community development outside London.
Set to Orkney Islands to protect the British naval profitable entry into the new PPP market.
Share price Our first construction contract: Further successes open in 2010, the hospital was Balfour Beattys Balfour Beatty has a dividend reinvestment plan DRIP which allows ordinary base at Scapa Flow from the threat of German on other tramways around the country led to our 20th PPP concession and will accommodate U-boats.
The scale of the defences was vast, shareholders to reinvest their cash dividends in the Companys shares bought in the The Balfour Beatty share price can be found at the Balfour Beatty website at first construction contract for the Fife tramway over 1,300 beds 21% more than the facilities involving half a million cubic yards of quarried market through a specially arranged share dealing service.
Full details of the DRIP www.
com and in the appropriate sections of national newspapers system, extending the line to Dunfermline in a it will replace.
rock and 300,000 tonnes of concrete blocks.
and its charges, together with mandate forms, can be accessed at 2002 under the classification Construction and Building Materials.
It is also available contract worth 141,450.
com on a number of personal finance websites on the Internet and from television BALFOUR BEATTYWINS HEATHROW The acquisition of Exeter International Airport TERMINAL 5 CONTRACT marked a new strategy of taking our investment text services.
1945 POST-WAR NATIONALISATION The Group was responsible for the integration business beyond the UK PPP market.
Shareholder information on the internet and electronic communications Once the war was over, reconstruction began The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List SEDOL codes are: 1975 and execution of all rail links to the terminal, and Balfour Beatty was responsible for installing Ordinary shares: 0096162. which included extensions to the Heathrow 2008 BUILDING MILITARY The Balfour Beatty website at www.
com offers shareholders and 1926 100kW of power plant, erecting 230 miles of DEVELOPING INFRASTRUCTURE Express and Piccadilly line, a link road to ACCOMMODATION INTHE US Preference shares: 0097820. transmission lines, railway tunnel repairs and prospective investors a range of information about the Company, its people and ON LAND AND SEA LOCHABERWATER POWER SCHEME the M25 and the construction of a rail station The acquisition of Centex Construction, a leading opencast coal mining.
However, the new businesses and its policies on corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
Balfour Beatty began construction of the 350m Worth 2.5m, our largest project to date employed The London Stock Exchange ticker codes are: equivalent in size to six football pitches.
US construction management company, and Labour governments policy of nationalisation Mina Jebel Ali port in Dubai.
The project included It should be regarded as your first point of reference for information on any of 3,000 men and was designed to exploit the vast The contract was worth 450m.
GMH, a major player in the US PPP military Ordinary shares: BBY.
altered our operating environment signicantly.
nine miles of quays, 1 miles of wharves, a tanker these matters.
potential of hydro-electric power held in Scotlands accommodation market, enhanced our major While we continued to be a major force in Preference shares: BBYB.
berth and a block yard producing 65,000 44-ton highland lochs.
The 15-mile tunnel was driven 2004 BUILDING SCHOOLS domestic presence in the US.
the electricity sector, we also expanded In conjunction with Capita Registrars, you can create a Share Portal account, concrete blocks.
5,500 workers were employed and through mountains bringing hydro power to the The announcement that Balfour Beatty was internationally and became a major supplier completed the port 12 months ahead of schedule, through which you are able to access the full range of online shareholder services, British Aluminium Company.
Capital gains tax the preferred bidder for Birmingham Schools to the London Underground.
perhaps because the project was personally including the ability to: brought the number of schools projects to five.
supervised by the ruler of Dubai himself!
For capital gains tax purposes the market value on 31 March 1982 of Balfour Beatty 1926 BIRTH OFTHE NATIONAL GRID The others being located in Stoke, Rotherham, view your holdings and indicative share price and valuation: In the same year the Central Electricity Board plcs ordinary shares of 50p each was 307.3p per share.
This has been adjusted for North Lanarkshire and Nottinghamshire.
view movements on your holdings and your dividend payment history: was set up to construct the National Grid, at a the 1-for-5 rights issue in June 1992 and the 2-for-11 rights issue in September 1996. cost of 26.7m.
Balfour Beatty played a prominent register a dividend mandate to have your dividends paid directly into your bank Overseas, the Group expanded its presence role in delivery.
account: in Hong Kong with the purchase of 50% of Enquiries change your registered address: Gammon Construction from Skanska.
sign-up to receive e-communications or access the online proxy voting facility: Enquiries relating to Balfour Beattys results, business and financial position should download and print shareholder forms.
be made in writing to the Corporate Communications Department at the Companys Registered Office address or by email to info@balfourbeatty.
com The Share Portal is easy to use.
Alternatively, you can email: shareportal@capita.
co. uk Balfour Beatty plc Registered Office: 130 Wilton Road, London SW1V 1LQ Registered in England Number 395826 213326 BALFOUR REV COVER CTD:213326 BALFOUR REV COVER CTD 30 3 09 17:49 Page 2 65 100 years of building the future Shareholder information 1957 1987 CELEBRATING 100 YEARS THE NUCLEAR AGE BEGINS TUNNELVISION Financial calendar Balfour Beatty actively supports Climate Care, a not-for-profit organisation The emerging nuclear power sector provided an Work began on a tunnel connecting England that funds global sustainable energy and forest restoration projects that reduce 2009 exciting new challenge, and in 1957 we began and France, bringing an idea that had existed OF BALFOUR BEATTY greenhouse gases.
co. uk Balfour Beatty plc Registered Office: 130 Wilton Road, London SW1V 1LQ Registered in England Number 395826 01 Our business Introduction We operate in a world where quality, exceptional service, a strong safety record, technical expertise and a trusted brand are real differentiators.
Balfour Beatty is focused on Engineering and Construction, Professional and Support Services and Investments.
A key strength is the breadth of capability we bring to major infrastructure projects that often require an integrated approach.
We continually assess what our customers want, and deliver it... proud of our past passionate about our future 02 Our business Performance... in order to meet their business objectives while providing responsible, long-term growth for our shareholders.
2008 was another strong year, with pre-tax profits up 24% on revenue that rose 27%.
Our business model is resilient, despite the challenging global economic environment,... Order book and revenue bn Order book Revenue 12.8 11.4 9.5 9.1 7.6 7.5 5.5 4.6 05 06 07 08 Group performance Revenue including joint ventures and associates Pre-tax profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and amortisation 9,486m 27% 249m 24% 249 9,486 201 7,488 5,506 136 4,590 117 05 06 07 08 05 06 07 08 Adjusted earnings per share Dividend growth before exceptional items and amortisation, and including the pre-exceptional results of discontinued operations in 2007 39.9p 14% 12.8p 11% 39.9 12.8 11.5 35.0 9.1 27.3 24.1 8.1 05 06 07 08 05 06 07 08 03 Our business Markets... our order book is substantial and our future is underpinned by a continued focus on key infrastructure markets in transportation, utilities and social infrastructure such as education and healthcare.
With the majority of our business delivered through contracts with public sector and regulated customers, these markets have shown consistent growth and continue to offer... UK infrastructure construction, demand v GDP % 1981 2008 US infrastructure construction, demand v GDP % 1980 2008 6 3.0 Private residential Private non-residential Public Private residential Private non-residential Public Infrastructure 2.5 5 Adjusted private non-residential Adjusted public Infrastructure 2.0 4 3 1.5 1.0 2 0.5 1 0.0 0 1981 1984 1988 1992 1996 2000 2004 2008 1980 1984 1988 1992 1996 2000 2004 2008 Key markets Education Health Roads Facilities management 12% of 2008 revenue 10% of 2008 revenue 12% of 2008 revenue 5% of 2008 revenue Utilities and other infrastructure Commercial building Rail Defence 15% of 2008 revenue 12% of 2008 revenue 14% of 2008 revenue 6% of 2008 revenue 14% of other revenues, not covered above.
04 Our business Geographical spread... excellent opportunities for the Group worldwide.
The year saw further progress in our strategy to grow organically and through the acquisition of high-quality businesses in our core geographic markets.
Our US business now accounts for approximately one quarter of Group revenues.
Across the world, we work... Revenue split by region UK Other 26% 25% 31% 36% 74% 75% 69% 64% 05 06 07 08 Revenue by region 6,046m 420m 2,237m UK 64% Continental Europe 4% US 24% 417m Asia Pacific 4% 358m Middle East, 8m Near East 4% Central and South America Revenues by destination, including joint ventures and associates.
05 Our business Customers... in partnership with blue-chip customers on complex projects, integrating the skills and capabilities of Group businesses, where appropriate.
The result is a complete offering, extending from investment, engineering and construction to professional and support services, which is delivered through a cohesive, customer-focused service.
Customer origin 1 3 1Public 55% 2 Private 19% 3 Regulated 26% 2 Some of the customers for whom we work US Army Corps of Engineers 06 Message from the Chairman Steve Marshall Chairman The majority of our work is in partnership with public sector and regulated customers, who are long-term investors in infrastructure.
07 Well-positioned in infrastructure markets Responsibility at the heart of our business I am pleased to report that Balfour Beatty produced another excellent financial The Groups Accident Frequency Rate AFR reduced a further 5% in 2008 to 0.20, performance in 2008.
Of equal importance, the Groups strategic development also continuing the positive trend of recent years.
In 2008, we launched a new safety commitment across all our businesses Balfour Beatty now has over 9bn in revenues, and a leading presence in called Zero Harm.
The goal is to have no seriously disabling injuries and no longselected key markets.
We are strong both operationally and nancially.
Our scale term harm to health, while aiming for zero AFR across the Group by 2012. and the resilience of our business model will serve us well in this difficult We are committed to the principles of good governance, aim to carry out economic environment.
our business with integrity and aspire to the highest standards.
Our key values The majority of our work is in partnership with public sector and regulated of integrity, teamwork, excellence and respect are being embedded throughout customers, who are long-term investors in infrastructure.
This stable customer the Group, an essential pre-requisite in creating long-term value in todays base helped us to achieve a pre-tax profit of 249m before exceptional items and environment.
amortisation in 2008, a 24% increase on the prior year.
We made a number of important acquisitions in 2008 in line with our strategy, Centenary notably Balfour Beatty Communities and Barnhart in the US, Dean & Dyball in the In January 1909, Balfour Beatty was founded by George Balfour, a Scots mechanical UK and Schreck-Mieves in Germany.
engineer, and Andrew Beatty, an English chartered accountant.
We still share their Despite acquisition expenditure, average net cash for the year was 239m, commitment to engineering skills and delivering solutions to our customers providing us with the continuing exibility to grow the business in the future.
As Ian Tyler describes in his Chief Executives review, we have a clear A hundred years later, almost to the day, in January 2009, Balfour Beatty strategy for the development of the business and a proven track record of delivery.
entered the FTSE 100 for the first time.
Dividend Community The Board is proposing a final dividend of 7.7p per ordinary share, making a total To commemorate our centenary, we announced a new charity programme called dividend of 12.8p for the year, an increase of 11%.
Working in partnership with The Princes Trust and Over time, we aim to grow the dividend broadly in line with our earnings, Action for Children, with the support of our people, the aim is to fund at least taking into account the investment needs of the business.
100 community improvement projects through the year.
A key theme of our corporate responsibility programme is enhancing the People lives of young people.
We were delighted that 2008 was our first year as title Our achievements reflect the high quality of the 40,000 people who work for Balfour sponsor of the Balfour Beatty London Youth Games.
The Games, which we are Beatty worldwide.
Recruiting the best people, developing their potential and sponsoring up to 2013, encourage children in the 32 London boroughs and the rewarding performance is key to our future success.
City of London to participate in sport.
We have made a number of significant executive appointments to provide the platform for continuing successful growth: London Youth Games Anthony Rabin became Deputy Chief Executive in March 2008, having held More than 25,000 children competed in 34 different sports the position of Finance Director since 2002.
He is responsible for the management at 2008s Balfour Beatty London Youth Games making it and development of our infrastructure investment businesses.
the biggest Games in the 31-year history of the event.
Duncan Magrath succeeded Anthony as Finance Director, having been Deputy The London Youth Games will be working tirelessly to Finance Director since 2006. encourage further participation and to encourage young Andrew McNaughton was appointed Chief Operating officer, with effect from people to represent their local community in a positive way.
1 January 2009, reporting to Ian Tyler and taking over responsibility for all our construction, engineering and rail activities outside the US.
The future Within our US construction and engineering business, Jim Moynihan, who Balfour Beatty is a world-class business, well-positioned in major markets which has responsibility for Heery, Balfour Beatty Infrastructure and Balfour Beatty Rail, offer the prospect of long-term growth.
and Robert Van Cleave, chairman and CEO of Balfour Beatty Construction US, The breadth of our capabilities, the successful delivery of our growth report to Ian Tyler.
Bruce Robinson, president and CEO of Balfour Beatty strategy including through integrated acquisitions and the strength of our Communities, reports to Anthony Rabin.
balance sheet mean that the Group is well-placed for the future.
We also made two non-executive appointments: We have benefited from continued growth in infrastructure expenditure I am pleased to welcome Hubertus Krossa to the Board following his in 2008 and had an order book of 12.8bn at the end of the year.
appointment as a non-executive Director in September 2008.
His extensive Crossrail, the new rail route planned through London: the nuclear new-build international operating experience, combined with his knowledge of the UK programme in the UK: and the medium-term outlook for rail, present us with business environment, will be of great value to us.
I am also pleased to welcome Graham Roberts to the Board as a nonDespite significant economic uncertainty, the Board remains committed to executive Director from 1 January 2009.
He will become chairman of the Audit the ongoing delivery of the reliable, responsible growth that shareholders have Committee from 5 March 2009.
Graham is finance director of The British Land enjoyed in recent years.
Company PLC and brings valuable financial and commercial experience to the Board.
08 Chief Executives review Ian Tyler Chief Executive Our professional services, facilities management and utilities businesses all grew strongly in the year.
09 Balfour Beatty Communities, a market leader in military housing PPP in the US, Financial results was acquired in April 2008.
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share were up 14% at 39.9p 2007: 35.0p.
Basic earnings per ordinary share were 42.9p 2007: 35.1p.
Operating profits from continuing operations in the building sector increased by 26%, in the engineering sector by 27%, in the rail sector by 3% and in the investments sector by 94%, which includes the impact of the acquisition of Balfour Beatty Communities.
Operating cash ow was, once again, strong and ahead of operating profits.
Year-end net cash stood at 440m 2007: 374m, before taking account of the consolidation of 143m of non-recourse net debt held in PPP subsidiaries 2007: 61m.
Strong cash ow and the proceeds of an equity placing offset the impact of net acquisition expenditure of 302m.
In May 2008, we raised 182m by successfully completing a placing of new ordinary shares, maintaining our policy of carrying no net debt on the balance sheet and enabling us to continue to take advantage of acquisition opportunities.
During the previous eight years, Balfour Beattys substantial acquisition programme Overview had been funded from operating cash ow and the proceeds of disposals.
2008 was another year of very good progress, driven by the strength of our business The year-end order book stood at 12.8bn 2007: 11.4bn, with 4.9bn of with public sector and regulated customers and the performance of acquisitions.
further work at preferred bidder stage.
The majority of revenues derived from public and regulated customers in the year.
Our order book was 12.8bn at the end of 2008, benefiting from acquisitions Percentage and exchange, with 4.9bn of further work at preferred bidder stage.
2008 2007 increase Our cash position remains strong, with average net cash in the year of 239m.
Revenue including joint ventures Year-end net cash stood at 440m 2007: 374m, before taking account of the and associates 9,486m 7,488m 27% consolidation of 143m of non-recourse net debt held in PPP subsidiaries 2007: 61m.
Group revenue 8,261m 6,466m 28% Pre-tax profit from continuing operations We continued to enhance our earnings potential through the acquisition of: before exceptional items and amortisation 249m 201m 24% Balfour Beatty Communities, the market leader in the military accommodation after exceptional items and amortisation 270m 157m 72% PPP concession market in the US: Barnhart, a leading Californian construction management company: Earnings per share Dean & Dyball, a leading UK regional contractor: adjusted 39.9p 35.0p 14% Blackpool International Airport: and Schreck-Mieves, the German rail engineering company.
basic 42.9p 35.1p 22% Dividends per share 12.8p 11.5p 11% Our professional services, facilities management and utilities businesses all grew strongly in the year.
Order book 12.8bn 11.4bn 12% Financing We have a clear strategy for the development of the business and a proven track record of delivery.
net cash before PPP subsidiaries non-recourse 440m 374m net borrowings of PPP subsidiaries non-recourse 143 m 61 m Before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets, and, in the case of earnings per share in 2007, including the pre-exceptional results of discontinued operations.
10 Chief Executives review Our strategy Balfour Beatty is working on the Islington Building Schools for the Future PPP concession.
Our goal is to deliver consistent, long-term growth to our shareholders.
We do this by striving to remain, or to become, the leading provider of high-quality infrastructure in each of our markets.
In 2006, we set out four principal areas of strategic focus that we believed would help drive medium and long-term growth and help us deliver our goals, and these still remain priorities.
We have made substantial progress in each area: UK infrastructure Following our acquisitions of Birse in 2006 and Cowlin in 2007, we acquired Dean & Dyball, a well-established contractor in southern England and Wales, in March 2008.
Together with Mansell, which we acquired in 2003, this has substantially enhanced our regional coverage across the UK and we have successfully integrated these businesses into the Group.
Professional services Balfour Beatty Management, our UK-based professional services business, and Heery International in the US, continue to grow.
In the UK, Balfour Beatty Management plays an important role, supporting cross-Group activities for a number of our sophisticated, major customers.
As customers demand for a higher-level, integrated presence at the top of their supply chain increases, professional services will become a much more significant part of the Group.
Infrastructure investment We are a leader in the UK private finance and PPP market, currently with 25 concessions and a further four at preferred bidder stage.
Following the acquisition of Balfour Beatty Communities formerly GMH Military Housing in 2008, we are a market leader in the most developed PPP market in the US military housing and are well-positioned to exploit the Group's expertise by undertaking privatisation projects in other sectors.
We reached financial close on our first PPP project in Singapore.
We will continue to apply the skills we have acquired in PPP to the wider non-PPP infrastructure market, in particular where there are attractive opportunities to take management control and improve the quality of assets in markets and sectors that are familiar to us.
The acquisition of Blackpool International Airport in May 2008 is the latest example of this.
Our goal is to deliver International markets The acquisitions of Balfour Beatty Construction US in 2007 and of Balfour Beatty Communities and Barnhart in 2008 were major steps in consistent, long-term growth implementing our strategy of building a high-quality, domestic business in the US, with the capacity to integrate financing, professional and technical services, project to our shareholders.
delivery and long-term facilities management.
11 Work was successfully completed on the M1 widening project junctions 6a 10.
A resilient business We constantly evaluate our strategy and analyse what makes us successful Construction is a local business and knowledge of local labour and material supply in order to select the business areas in which to concentrate our financial and is critical.
We believe one of our main differentiators is the depth and breadth of management capital.
our expertise, gained from operating in mature economies in the UK, mainland Our core skills are becoming increasingly focused on three areas: Europe, the US, Middle East and Far East, combined with our local knowledge in engineering and construction, professional and support services and each market.
These cover the key aspects of the construction life cycle including Over time, our aim is to move towards a business model where our business intellectual capital, financial capital, labour, execution and maintenance.
activities in the US have the same scale and depth as the UK, while continuing to By applying these skills to become the partner of choice for sophisticated develop businesses in other parts of the world.
Following our recent acquisitions, infrastructure owners in our chosen disciplines and geographies, we believe the US now accounts for approximately one quarter of the Groups revenues we will: and profits.
achieve industry-best margins in our contracting and engineering activities: provide much of the upfront thinking and management skills required to deliver complex, integrated projects: and secure substantial, sustainable equity returns from our long-term investment portfolio.
12 Chief Executives review Integrated infrastructure delivery A strong performance in 2008 Our customers requirements are evolving.
Increasingly they seek to partner with a As outlined at the start of my review, we have delivered another strong performance trusted supplier and to eliminate unnecessary engagement with multiple suppliers in 2008. which accentuates both risk and cost.
We benefited from continued growth in infrastructure expenditure, particularly A supply chain partner who can integrate knowledge and expertise across a in education and healthcare.
Further information on the markets we operate in is set range of disciplines and manage risk on behalf of its customer offers the greatest out on pages 24 and 25.
The majority of our revenues are derived from public and added value.
regulated customers, who tend to invest in upgrading and building new facilities and Our proven capability to integrate professional and support services, infrastructure assets throughout the economic cycle.
Our performance is covered engineering and construction and investment skills is generating a growing range in greater detail in the Operating review on pages 26 to 43, and, as in previous of large-scale opportunities.
years, we report our results by our business divisions of: Building, Engineering, As demonstrated in the case studies on pages 13 to 23, this is becoming Rail and Investments.
more common in our major customer relationships.
Sophisticated infrastructure owners increasingly value the opportunity to outsource both the management Outlook and delivery of complexity.
Our high-quality order book, the full-year impact of acquisitions, and continued Our customers are also driven by the need to manage and control costs infrastructure expenditure by public and regulated customers should drive progress and recognise the benefits that early engagement, partnership and long-term in 2009.
We anticipate reaching financial close on three preferred bidder PPP projects relationships can bring.
in the UK in the first half of 2009.
We operate in a number of markets which are likely to Our integrated capability, together with the strength of our balance sheet benefit from additional infrastructure projects arising from economic stimulus packages.
and our proven track record, will continue to be key differentiators in the markets The majority of our work will continue to be with public sector and regulated in which we operate.
We are seeing a general slowdown in private sector work: and more of a slowdown in the Middle East, which represents a modest part of our business.
While the difficult economic environment will have some impact on our businesses Zero Harm and creates greater uncertainty, we anticipate making progress in 2009.
Safety has always been an important part of how we do business and remains at the top of our agenda, encompassing both the safety of our own people and the communities in which we operate.
Our new safety commitment Zero Harm by 2012 is being communicated to all our employees, partners, sub-contractors and customers around the world.
Our aim is no risk of death or serious injury to our workforce and no risk of injuries of any kind to the public.
We have made good progress in safety.
We can do better and aim to eliminate completely the risk of doing serious harm.
Zero Harm is, ultimately, about managing and designing risk out of everything we do.
We will keep you updated on our progress in this crucial area.
Zero Harm is a major new safety initiative launched in 2008.
13 Our capabilities across the Group OUR INTEGRATED CAPABILITY The following section of the review illustrates how our skills, applied in combination, add value for key customers.
Professional and Support Services V ALUE Engineering and Investments Construction Services 14 Our capabilities across the Group BUSINESS AS USUAL Balfour Beatty companies are working together to deliver the Kings Cross St Pancras Northern Ticket Hall in London one of the largest underground projects in the UK.
Considerate contractor On all projects, we are committed to doing our utmost to avoid disruption to local communities.
During 2008, Balfour Beatty Civil Engineering was presented with a Silver Award in the Considerate Constructors Scheme for its work at Kings Cross St Pancras.
The scheme is a national initiative, set up by the construction industry, to improve its image and encourage best practice beyond statutory requirements.
In March 2008, we recorded one million man hours on-site without a single reportable accident.
15 Transport for London chose Balfour Beattys integrated approach for the project management and delivery of the Northern Ticket Hall to the required quality standards.
Already one of the busiest interchanges on the London Underground network, Kings Cross St Pancras is set to become busier still.
The relocation of Eurostar services to St Pancras, which adjoins the Underground, together with the forthcoming introduction of fast commuter services from Kent and anticipated local regeneration, is expected to drive up passenger numbers by some 33%.
This gure will be further increased during the 2012 Olympic Games.
The new underground Northern Ticket Hall, being built by Balfour Beatty to a demanding schedule, will help to ensure that the station can handle this huge surge in passenger volumes.
Long-term project The Northern Ticket Hall is the second phase of the 774m Kings Cross St Pancras CTRL works programme and follows Balfour Beattys successful involvement in the first phase.
Balfour Beattys current role is to create a capacious new main access into the Underground station.
significant earthworks are involved, with excavations reaching a depth of four storeys below ground.
A roof slab installed above the ticket hall will seal what is in effect a giant concrete box.
Joined-up thinking Projects such as the Northern Ticket Hall increasingly draw on integrated solutions, with management, construction and technical teams working closely together.
Balfour Beatty is responsible for overall programme management, as well as providing civil engineering, piling and mechanical and electrical services.
Balfour Beatty is responsible for the box construction, as well as the t-out of the ticket ofce and access tunnels including architectural nishes, mechanical and electrical systems and communications systems, together with the integration and installation of escalators and lifts.
Professional and support services Engineering and construction services Balfour Beatty Management, the Groups professional services company, Balfour Beatty is responsible for all civil engineering, mechanical and electrical is providing project management and consultancy.
services and piling through its various operating companies.
16 Our capabilities across the Group POWERING TOMORROW Balfour Beatty is delivering an innovative seven-year facilities management service for the nuclear power plants operated by British Energy.
17 Maintaining the efficient operation of a key component of the UKs Engineering and construction generating capacity, at a time of increased demand, is a top priority for the customer.
Balfour Beattys nuclear experience and its ability to offer the appropriate mix of planning, project management, maintenance and project work, secured a seven-year contract.
British Energy Group plc, now part of EDF Energy, is the UKs largest producer of electricity.
It provides around one-sixth of the nations electricity, the majority of which is generated by the companys network of nuclear power stations.
In 2008, Balfour Beatty companies combined to provide facilities management FM services to all eight nuclear operations, plus the companys ofces in East Kilbride and Gloucester.
The contract is for an initial seven years with an optional five-year extension.
Building a partnership Balfour Beatty has worked on British Energy sites for over 30 years, with a history of delivering a range of cost-effective services, together with an excellent safety record.
It was the additional ability to integrate FM services fully, while also demonstrating the capability and willingness to undertake additional project work, that was Balfour Kilpatrick is providing mechanical and electrical services, as part of the instrumental in winning the contract.
Wider opportunities Safety focus Both parties were keen to explore the opportunities to enhance the clients power In the nuclear environment, safety is absolutely critical.
Balfour Beatty station assets, as well as delivering FM services.
Following a comprehensive has an established reputation in the sector, winning the resident engineers safety award for two consecutive years at British Nuclear review, Balfour Beatty committed to upgrading those assets over the first four Fuels Sellaeld plant.
years of the contract, using staff already employed on-site.
For this project, we developed a new cultural awareness approach to safety, which aligns with the clients own Nuclear Professionalism initiative.
The scheme focuses on addressing hazards before they create incidents.
During 2008, this approach identied and removed some 800 hazards from British Energy sites.
Professional and support services Balfour Beatty WorkPlace, a market leader in facilities management and support services, and Balfour Beatty Management, which provides project management and consultancy, are working together to deliver the innovative contract.
18 Our capabilities across the Group TEXTBOOK INTEGRATION In North London, Balfour Beatty businesses have come together to refurbish or rebuild eight Islington schools and maintain them for 25 years, through an innovative partnership with the Government and the local council.
Engineering and construction services Investments Balfour Beatty Construction is working with Balfour Kilpatrick, the Groups Balfour Beatty Capital, which is leading the project, is one of the largest UK mechanical and electrical services company.
private sector investors in healthcare, education, roads and infrastructure.
Transform Schools is Balfour Beatty Capitals specialist education organisation.
19 Local education authorities, across the UK, face the challenge of creating appropriate learning environments for the 21st century, making use of a range of nancing and delivery options.
Balfour Beattys established capability in nancing, planning, construction and maintenance led to its selection as the London Borough of Islingtons long-term partner.
The UK Governments Building Schools for the Future BSF initiative is the largest schools capital investment programme for over 50 years.
Keen to ensure maximum value for its investment, the Government has established a new form of Public Private Partnership PPP, known as a Local Educational Partnership LEP, which will deliver the BSF programme.
An LEP is a partnership between the local authority, Partnership for Schools and a private concession company.
In phase one of the Islington project, Balfour Beatty has won its first BSF contract under the new LEP model.
The contract builds on the Groups well-established credentials and extensive experience in PPP within the UK education sector.
The project aims to deliver first-class learning facilities to give every child the best possible opportunity to succeed.
Transforming education in Islington The Groups input in Islington is headed by specialist education concession company, Transform Schools part of Balfour Beatty Capital.
The 150m project is to refurbish or rebuild eight secondary schools, along with the secondary department of a special educational needs school and a pupil referral unit, over the next five years and then maintain them for a period of 25 years.
Balfour Beatty is responsible for construction, mechanical and electrical services and facilities management.
Information and communications technology ICT will be provided by RM Education, the Groups ICT partner.
The project requires a high degree of integration and a seamless service.
The Balfour Beatty companies involved have long-established working relationships and a set of protocols which support the process from design to handover.
For the client, this means faster decision-making, a smoother process and, ultimately, a more cohesive and cost-effective total service.
For example, the Balfour Beatty Construction design team and Balfour Kilpatrick consulted with RM Education to make sure that ICT is fully integrated into every stage of the design and build process.
Improving the environment Situated close to the schools embraced by theTransform Islington project, Whittington Park is a valuable and popular green oasis.
The park has seen a number of recent improvements, with one of these being funded by Balfour Beatty.
Following consultation with the local community, Balfour Beatty contributed 30,000 for a range of tness equipment to create an outdoor gym.
Professional and support services The equipment includes a cross trainer, chest press, leg press, and chin-up bars all of which are now being enjoyed by local residents.
Balfour Beatty WorkPlace will be responsible for facilities management across all the schools for the next 25 years.
RM Education is providing specialist ICT services.
The project was devised byTransform Islington as part of its commitment to helping Islington Councils programme of regeneration.
20 Our capabilities across the Group JOINING FORCES In the United States, two Balfour Beatty companies have joined forces to build and renovate 3,700 homes and energise a community at the largest US Army base east of the Mississippi River.
Building communities Building the physical fabric of a base is only part of the task.
Creating a real community is equally important in bringing comfort and stability to bases such as Fort Stewart and Hunter Army Aireld.
The LifeWorks @ Balfour Beatty Communities programme lies at the heart of the companys drive for wellness.
This comprehensive programme focuses on developing and maintaining healthy bodies and minds and building community spirit.
Activities range from cookery classes and after-school clubs to sporting competitions, re safety presentations and Christmas parties.
21 The transformation of on-base military accommodation in the US Experience and expertise to create environments suitable for attracting and retaining military Balfour Beatty Communities and Balfour Beatty Construction US first began personnel began in 1996.
Balfour Beatty is established as the leading working together several years ago, long before they were acquired by the Group provider, capable of delivering a seamless nancing, construction and in 2008 and 2007 respectively.
Balfour Beatty Communities develops, nances, FM service through Balfour Beatty Communities and Balfour Beatty operates and manages the projects which are in the majority of cases, built by Construction US.
The Military Housing Privatisation Initiative of 1996 transformed the way in Balfour Beatty Communities is currently responsible for maintaining over 33,000 which homes and communities are created and managed for the US armed homes for all three branches of the US military, with a presence on 44 bases in forces.
For the first time, this programme gave the private sector the opportunity 20 states and Washington, DC.
to be responsible for the design, construction, operation and management of Life on a military base presents unique challenges, including frequent relocation, military housing.
family separation due to deployment, plus the ever-present dangers associated Balfour Beatty Communities, the industry leader in privatised military housing, with military roles.
These and other challenges are compounded by the fact that and Balfour Beatty Construction US have now built 1,449 new family homes at a high number of residents are young adults and families.
Fort Stewart and Hunter Army Aireld in Georgia, the largest US Army installation Balfour Beatty Communities has unparalleled knowledge of the specic needs of east of the Mississippi River, and are responsible for maintaining over 3,700 military families, together with unique expertise and capabilities to satisfy those homes in addition to five community centres and over 60 play areas.
This is needs and create a rewarding environment that its residents can truly call home.
facilities management on a huge scale: managing all the services for what is, in effect, a small town.
Towards the end of 2008, the installation ofcially opened the first units in its new single soldier accommodation project.
Privatised single soldier housing is a relatively new initiative for the Army and Balfour Beatty has one of the five such pilot projects currently underway.
At Fort Stewart, construction of the single soldier units began in January 2008 with completion scheduled for February 2010.
Ultimately, the accommodation will comprise 334 apartments and extensive community facilities.
Engineering and construction services Investments Professional and support services Balfour Beatty Construction US provides construction services to the public Balfour Beatty Communities is responsible for the development, operation and and private sector.
The company has a long-established relationship with Balfour management of housing at the installation.
Beatty Communities and the two businesses collaborate frequently on projects for the US military.
22 Our capabilities across the Group APPLYING PPP LESSONS Group companies are working together to finance, design and build a new campus in Singapore, the first contract of its kind in South-East Asia.
STOCK IMAGE Community engagement Community engagement and use of College West is central to the ITE vision of being recognised as a global leader in technical education.
The colleges core focus is on the hospitality and retail industries sectors that lie at the heart of this fast-growing and successful economy.
The campus will feature an integrated business town concept, with facilities such as retail outlets open to the public.
Many of these will be partly staffed by students, providing real hands-on training while also encouraging the wider community to be part of the ITE experience.
23 The rapid growth in demand for technical education in Singapore creates a pressing need to develop high-quality, sustainable educational facilities.
Using the PPP model developed in the UK, the Institute of Technical Education ITE in Singapore chose Balfour Beattys Groupwide experience in designing and delivering privately-nanced educational facilities to ensure the best outcome.
Innovation is the hallmark of the new College West campus currently being constructed for the Institute of Technical Education, the principal provider of technical education in Singapore.
The building, which features a stunning walkway and a transparent design, is being built and managed through the first Public Private Partnership PPP of its kind in South-East Asia.
This S$270m Singapore dollars contract, which has a duration of 27 years, is one of the first on the continent to resemble PPP projects familiar in the UK.
Through our joint venture businesses Gammon Capital and Gammon Construction, all of the Groups PPP experience has been utilised to create a project-winning proposition.
The ground-breaking nature of the project has been recognised by its award as Project Finance Internationals Asia Pacic PPP Deal of the Year 2008.
Flexible learning space The new college will include a campus housing 7,200 full-time and 8,100 part-time students and around 630 staff, with completion scheduled for 2010.
It incorporates exible and adaptable learning spaces which support ITEs dynamic and changing curriculum requirements.
The college focuses on service excellence in the hospitality and retail industries and offers a range of technical qualications.
Harnessing experience This is the first major project for Gammon Capital, which pre-qualied for the project in 2006 and was appointed preferred bidder towards the end of 2007.
The project has seen widespread integration of expertise within Gammon and its joint owners Balfour Beatty and Jardine Matheson.
In particular, Gammon Capital worked with Balfour Beatty Capital in the development of a competitive bid, including collaboration on project finance, commercial, design and life cycle support.
The PPP expertise of Balfour Beatty Capital also enabled Gammon to put together an innovative nancing structure to deliver value for money to ITE.
Advice from Balfour Beatty Capital was at the heart of the decision to introduce experienced educationalists to the Gammon team during the bid process.
Their knowledge was an important aspect in the development of the highly functional and exible design that ITE was seeking.
Investments Engineering and construction services The project is led by Gammon Capital, the joint venture Singapore-based The contractor is Gammon Construction, in which Balfour Beatty acquired a joint investment business.
Gammon worked closely with Balfour Beatty Capital, venture interest in 2004. drawing on the Groups extensive PPP experience.
Markets OECD forecast of infrastructure investment Water Road Electricity Rail 1,800 1,600 1,400 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 2002 2010 2010 2020 2020 2030 Transmission and distribution only Only OECD BRICs Global overview Infrastructure demand Balfour Beatty operates in three distinct infrastructure markets: transportation: Infrastructure owners look to organisations like Balfour Beatty for an increasingly utilities: and social infrastructure such as education, healthcare and social housing.
sophisticated approach to infrastructure procurement, including the requirement to: The Groups capabilities extend from development, engineering and construction to the maintenance and management of infrastructure assets.
provide a broad range of services: Balfour Beatty also finances infrastructure projects, through Public Private engage earlier in the construction process: Partnerships PPP, as well as direct investment.
provide expertise in life cycle management of assets: The majority of Balfour Beattys work is with public sector or regulated finance the provision of those assets and services: and customers.
This market for the Groups services is resilient and driven by a number integrate a range of capabilities to suit the requirements of individual projects.
Markets and opportunities Infrastructure trends Public sector and regulated customers typically invest through, rather than in line Transportation with, the economic cycle in contrast to private sector investment.
In challenging economic conditions such as those currently being experienced worldwide, there is Road often the potential for markets to benefit from government stimulus packages to As GDP increases, there is a corresponding growth in road usage.
Governments increase employment and demand.
worldwide are seeking to improve the management of road networks to enhance transportation links and reduce congestion.
A range of additional factors is also driving global investment in infrastructure, Balfour Beattys capabilities extend across the life cycle of roads infrastructure, including: from construction to asset management.
The Group is well-placed to respond to the evolving requirements of the Highways Agency in the UK and Departments of population growth and demographic changes: Transportation in the US.
urbanisation, which requires major infrastructure investment: Rail international trade, which drives the need for quality transport networks: Increased road congestion is driving governments towards public transport, with sustainability issues, which are raising the standard for both air and water rail being a prominent solution.
The success of the European high-speed rail quality, and requiring the upgrading of power and water treatment facilities: networks is likely to stimulate investment internationally.
In the US alone, over ageing infrastructure, which requires extensive renewal and upgrading 0 cities are considering new light rail networks or extensions to existing systems.
particularly in developed economies, including Balfour Beattys core UK and Environmental pressures are likely to increase the electrification of rail networks, US markets.
as network operators move away from diesel.
Balfour Beatty has an international rail capability and proven expertise in electrification.
Aviation The aviation sector requires investment on land-side and air-side, as well as in terminals, to meet increasing passenger flows generated by both trade and tourism.
Balfour Beatty has an extensive track record in aviation, including involvement at Gatwick and Heathrow airports in the UK: OHare Chicago, Dulles Washington and Miami airports in the US: and many more of the worlds busiest airports, as well as valuable experience as an airport owner and operator, through investments in Exeter and Blackpool airports.
$bn 5 UK social infrastructure Schools Hospitals Social housing 20 16 12 8 4 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Source: Office for National Statistics 2008 is annualised, based on first three quarters US social infrastructure Education Health 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Source: FMI Utilities Social infrastructure Electricity Healthcare Economic growth and increases in population are driving demand for electricity Ageing populations and medical advances have seen healthcare expenditure in worldwide.
Over half of investment in OECD countries is forecast to be in OECD countries increase.
transmission and distribution networks, where Balfour Beatty has extensive Balfour Beatty is a major participant in UK healthcare programmes such experience.
as acute hospital PPP and ProCure 1, while in the US, the Group has long-standing Investment will be further stimulated by the need to upgrade the ageing relationships with several major health providers.
assets of the 1960s and 1970s which cannot support modern demands, as Education demonstrated by the recent history of blackouts and brownouts in both the US Education is a key element in governments drive to address skills shortages and and Europe.
this is driving infrastructure investment.
The move towards renewable and distributed energy generation will also In the UK, for example, the Government is currently engaged in major require the reinforcement of the national grids in the US and UK.
investments through its Building Schools for the Future, National Academies and Water other programmes.
Increased prosperity, irrigation for agriculture, industrialisation and urbanisation The US marketplace is further stimulated by demographic factors, including are all contributing to increased global water usage with consumption expected immigration and migration to the sun-belt states such as California, Texas, Florida 3 3 to rise from, 100km in 1995 to, 800km by 0 5.
With increased demand, and the Carolinas, where Balfour Beatty has a strong presence and is a market the substantial leakage from ageing networks is becoming a critical issue.
With the Groups wide experience in the water sector, particularly in networks, Social housing Balfour Beatty is well-positioned to meet the challenges for infrastructure owners In the UK, the Government has acknowledged the role of social housing, for which worldwide.
Mansell is a leading provider, in dealing with the shortage of key workers.
A large programme, which includes opportunities for financing innovations, is currently underway to build 155,000 new homes each year.
In addition, the Decent Homes programme, which aims to improve the quality of aged housing stock, represents another substantial source of opportunities to 011 and beyond.
$bn bn 6 Operating review Building, Building Management and Services BUILDING, BUILDING MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES Strong overall growth Highlights Good flow of work in education and health sectors Balfour Beatty WorkPlace grew strongly Acquisition of Barnhart in California Balfour Beatty Construction US continued to perform strongly Financial summary Revenue 4.6bn 007: 3.6bn Order book 6.7bn 007: 6.1bn Profit 88m 007: 70m Including 137m share of joint ventures and associates 007: 113m.
Profit from operations before 1m exceptional charges 007: 6m and 1 m amortisation of intangible assets 007: 6m.
Specialist areas Companies Design Balfour Beatty Construction UK Construction Balfour Beatty Construction US Construction and programme Balfour Beatty WorkPlace management Balfour Kilpatrick Electrical engineering Haden Young Mechanical engineering Heery International Building and facilities management Mansell Refurbishment and fit-out Affordable housing Revenue breakdown 1 3 1 Building Construction 3,201m 25% growth 2 Building Services 542m 5% growth 2 3 Programme & Facilities Management 892m 60% growth Total 4,635m 27% growth 7 Major developments in 2008 The long-standing relationship with BAA is continuing with the Heathrow East Satellite project.
In the UK, the acquisition of Dean & Dyball, a well-established civil engineering and building contractor in the southern half of England and in Wales, marked a continuation of the strategy to expand the Groups regional coverage in the UK.
Dean & Dyballs UK building business was largely absorbed into Mansell, expanding its national coverage and regional delivery capability, with Dean & Dyballs Welsh building business absorbed into Cowlin.
The acquisition of Barnhart significantly enhances Heerys presence in California, one of the USs most important markets, offering substantial opportunities in education and other construction management markets.
Our markets Public sector and regulated customers account for the majority of the work in the UK and US and underpinned a resilient performance, more than offsetting any impact from a general slowdown in private sector work.
The breadth and depth of the Groups portfolio of building businesses puts us in a strong position to benefit from continued spend on infrastructure, both through existing schemes and additional projects arising from economic stimulus packages in the UK and US.
Performance overview There was a full-years contribution from Cowlin, which has added a profitable presence in building construction markets in South and South West England to the Profit from operations, before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible Group.
Cowlin, acquired in August 007, has integrated well and is performing in assets, rose by 6% to 88m 007: 70m.
This reflected full-year contributions from Balfour Beatty Construction US, The successful long-standing working relationship with BAA continued with which was acquired at the end of March 007, and Cowlin and Covion, which were work at Heathrow, Glasgow and Edinburgh airports.
In January 009, Balfour Beatty acquired in the second half of 007, together with the impact of the acquisitions signed a 10-year framework agreement with BAA to assist in delivering its 6.6bn of Dean & Dyball and Barnhart in 008. capital programme.
This framework covers both complex projects, such as the There was very satisfactory organic growth in Balfour Beattys established Heathrow East Satellite project, and smaller commodity projects, including businesses.
Performance was held back by a write-down on a large UK building alterations, refurbishment and building work at a number of UK airports.
services project pending resolution of income recovery negotiations, and the London was an area of strong activity.
The contract to build the Aquatics write-off of a receivable from a property developer.
Centre for the London 01 Olympics was secured and a Balfour Beatty team is Our facilities management business, now renamed Balfour Beatty WorkPlace, working on the first phase of the reconstruction of Blackfriars station.
was made on a number of office building projects, which are scheduled for completion Balfour Beatty Construction US performed strongly and Heery International in 009, and on the Decent Homes framework contract for the London Borough of had another good year.
Major projects were secured in the UK from BAA, the Olympic Delivery In Scotland, contracts were won for the National Museum project in Edinburgh, Authority, BT and in the health and education sectors: and in the US from the Navy, the Edinburgh Vet School and Ravenscraig Sports Centre.
Mansell had a strong year with revenue exceeding 1bn for the first time.
The building sector order book was 6.7bn by the end of 008 007: 6.1bn.
The building business of Dean & Dyball was successfully absorbed into the business, expanding Mansells national coverage and regional delivery capability.
Review of operations One early success was the completion of a new stadium for the Exeter Chiefs rugby team.
UK building construction As a principal supply chain member for ProCure 1 the pre-approved There was a strong performance by Balfour Beatty Construction and Mansell in procurement system designed to speed up construction delivery within the NHS 008 with a good flow of work in the key education and health sectors.
Mansell won work at Derriford Hospital and for the Cromer Hospital redevelopment.
In education, Balfour Beatty Construction won the construction contract The 6m Brentwood Community Hospital was successfully handed over during for Islington Schools Building Schools for the Future BSF phase one and good the year.
progress was made at Knowsley BSF.
New orders were secured for the Walworth Mansells long-standing relationship with UNITE Group continued, with Academy in London, Sunderland Academies, Eastbourne Academy in Darlington student accommodation at Old Street, London completed on time, and work is and a Skills Academy in Bristol.
Work under the BSF framework in Manchester progressing well at Cambridge Heath Road in Londons East End and at and Liverpool continued.
There is potential for construction work at Greenwich BSF and at Southwark During the year, Mansell was appointed as a national framework partner for Schools where Transform Schools is preferred bidder.
Following the original tranche the Home Office and won orders on the Hackney BSF scheme and construction of of work on the North Lanarkshire PPP, there is the potential for further work through phase three of Guru Nanak School in Hayes.
Progress on public healthcare projects was also positive.
The Mental Health facility was handed over five weeks early as part of Birmingham New Hospitals PPP, Birminghams first new hospital for 70 years, and the Elizabeth Garrett Anderson Wing at UCLH was completed during the year.
Hope Hospital in Salford and Tameside General Hospital are progressing well, as is work on the Pinderfields and Pontefract Hospitals PPP and the Victoria & Stobhill Hospitals for the NHS Greater Glasgow & Clyde.
Financial close on the Fife Hospital PPP, with a construction value of 170m, is anticipated in the first half of 009.
8 Building, Building Management and Services Excellent progress was made on Liberty Village, the phased accommodation UK facilities management redevelopment programme to design and build family houses on a 7 -acre site There was another year of strong revenue and profit growth for within RAF Lakenheath Air Force base for the United States Forces in Europe.
Balfour Beatty WorkPlace formerly known as Haden Building Management As a framework contractor to BAA, Mansell carries out highly-varied schemes with its name change reflecting the range of integrated facilities management to enhance the passenger experience and improve the efficiency of airport services the company now provides.
operations and during the year successfully completed work on alterations and Revenues topped 00m in 008 with good performances on the major re-configuration at Heathrow Terminal 1. contract for the Royal Mail, in which the company has a 9% interest, and for the Department for Work and Pensions.
Extensions to contracts with the BBC and Private sector markets in UK building construction were generally difficult during the the Metropolitan Police were secured.
year but public sector customers account for the majority of revenues.
We expect to There was a successful mobilisation on the contract with British Energy, make progress in 009, with work in the education sector being a key contributor.
which involves the provision of facilities management and maintenance services for its fleet of nuclear power stations over a seven-year period.
Performance under the companys long-term PPP healthcare and education UK building services contracts was good with the pipeline of work boosted by financial close on Balfour Kilpatrick delivered a strong performance.
Significant contract wins the Islington BSF phase one project.
Southwark Schools, where Balfour Beatty included 5m of mechanical and electrical services on the A3 Hindhead scheme, WorkPlace will also carry out long-term facilities management, is currently at where Balfour Beatty Civil Engineering is the lead contractor, and, in the education preferred bidder stage.
market, with work on the Sunderland and Islington BSF phase one projects.
The Monteray joint venture, in which Balfour Beatty WorkPlace is a.
5% In the industrial sector, new business was secured with Dragon LNG and at shareholder, secured a new six-year facilities management contract with BT worth the SABIC polyethylene plant in Teesside, while the long-standing involvement at in excess of 500m, providing services for 7,000 buildings and 100,000 staff located Sellafield continued.
In London, power-related work at Earls Court from EDF Energy Powerlink was In December, Colledge Trundle & Hall, which specialises in the design and won and good progress was made on the Victoria line upgrade and at Kings Cross installation of automatic energy control systems for buildings, was acquired for Northern Ticket Hall.
3m, expanding Balfour Beatty WorkPlaces services into energy management.
Balfour Kilpatrick, Balfour Beatty WorkPlace and Balfour Beatty Management Covion, the private sector facilities infrastructure services business acquired in are working together see case study on pages 16 and 17 to provide integrated 007, performed satisfactorily.
facilities management and maintenance services for British Energys nuclear Balfour Beatty WorkPlace is confident of further progress in 009, based on its stations as part of a long-term contract.
track record of delivering for customers and the continuing trend to outsourcing in The Whitelee Wind Farm project, south of Glasgow, where Balfour Kilpatrick the public and private sectors.
is designing, supplying and installing electrical and control systems, continued to move ahead with over 100 turbines now in place, making it Europes largest on-shore wind farm.
Balfour Beatty WorkPlaces contract with the BBC was extended during the year.
Balfour Kilpatrick has a strong order book for 009 and is well-positioned in the power, renewable energy and nuclear sectors where future growth is anticipated.
Haden Youngs strong focus on the healthcare sector continued in 008.
Hospital contracts at Churchill, Oxford: Castlehill, Hull: and UCLH, London were all completed during the year with new work secured at the Ysbyty Aneurin Bevan Hospital in Ebbw Vale from Welsh Health Estates.
Good progress was made on the Pinderfields and Pontefract Hospitals PPP, where the Pathology building was completed during the year, and at Birmingham New Hospitals.
The company won a significant order for the Aquatics Centre, being built for the London 01 Olympics, and completed the Liverpool Arena and Conference Centre.
Overall performance in the business was held back by a substantial project write-down, principally arising from design issues, pending resolution of income recovery negotiations.
The balance of future orders in UK building services is likely to be weighted more towards the education sector than the healthcare sector.
9 US constructio Balfour Beatty Construction US also undertakes the majority of military housing Balfour Beatty Construction US built the Pentagon Memorial.
project construction work for Balfour Beatty Communities, which was acquired by the Group in April 008 and is the market leader in the military accommodation PPP concession market.
Long-term orders secured in 008 included Fort Jackson in South Carolina: West Point, New York: and the Air Mobility Command AMC West, covering three Air Force bases.
Towards the end of the year, Balfour Beatty Construction US formed a new business unit to target national projects in the Federal sector and is well-positioned to capitalise on building projects included in the new economic stimulus packages.
In February 009, Balfour Beatty acquired RT Dooley, a construction firm based in Charlotte, for $ 0m.
The business specialises in office and mission critical fit-out, and will expand the service offering in the South-East division.
For 009, Balfour Beatty Construction US has a strong order book and is well-placed to weather instability in the private commercial market.
US professional services Heery International had another good year, with revenue approaching $1bn for the first time.
Revenue was boosted by organic growth and the acquisition in June 008 of Barnhart, the largest programme management, construction management and building company in San Diego and among the largest such companies in California, for a cash consideration of $1 1m.
Barnhart is the sixth largest education sector builder in the US as a whole, adding to Heerys strong position in the K-1 public education sector.
California is one of the USs most important markets offering substantial opportunities in education and other construction management markets.
It also enhances the potential of Heerys JCM project management operation, based in Los Angeles, which is addressing a fast-growing design and build market.
Charter Builders in Texas, which was acquired in March 006, continues to exceed expectations.
Good progress was made on the $ 0m contract for the management and construction of Berlin Prison in New Hampshire, as well as a new complex for the Food and Drug Administration in Silver Spring, Maryland.
Projects for renovations and additions were completed at a number of college football stadia, including the University of Texas, Western Kentucky University and the Cotton Bowl in Dallas.
Work on the Gallaudet Universitys Sorensen Language and Communications Center in Washington was completed on time and on budget.
Heery continued to win high-quality work through its mix of services and strong emphasis on State and Federal work.
Significant wins included a three-year US construction contract to provide ongoing programme management and design services at Louis Balfour Beatty Construction US, which was acquired in March 007, performed Armstrong New Orleans International Airport: construction management services strongly in 008 with revenues of $.
It continues to exceed expectations from for a new Social Security Administration building in Baltimore: and its appointment the time of the acquisition.
as architect of record for the multi-million dollar expansion of facilities for the Through its regional businesses based in Texas, Florida, North Carolina and University of Iowa Health Care.
Washington, DC, it provides Balfour Beatty with a strong position in the US building Heery is pursuing a wide range of opportunities, particularly in the healthcare construction market.
and K-1 education markets and is well-placed for further progress in 009.
Its services for public and private sector clients include construction management, design-build, pre-construction, general contracting and programme Outlook management.
Almost all of its work is secured on the basis of technical capability The high-quality order book and continued infrastructure expenditure, along with and track record, with price being determined only after its selection as the full-year impact of acquisitions, should drive growth in 009.
volumes and increased competition in some private sector markets will have some Major project wins in 008 included a design-and-build contract to construct impact, we anticipate making further progress in the year.
new training facilities for the US Army Corps of Engineers at Fort Lee, Virginia, incorporating new classrooms, workshops, laboratories and administration offices within five buildings, and a major expansion of the Peabody Orlando in Florida, where the construction of a 35-floor hotel tower, along with new and renovated convention centre space, is underway.
In joint venture, Balfour Beatty Construction US was awarded a $6 0m contract to design and build additions and renovations to the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Maryland, to create the new Walter Reed National Military Medical Center.
At the Pentagon, just outside Washington, DC, Balfour Beatty built the high-profile Pentagon Memorial, where a dedication ceremony took place on 11 September 008.
30 Operating review Civil and Specialist Engineering and Services CIVIL AND SPECIALIST ENGINEERING AND SERVICES Strong performance with good pipeline of forward orders Highlights Good performance in UK civil engineering, particularly in roads sector Continued growth of Balfour Beatty Management Good progress in utilities and overseas power transmission Good performance in Dubai, despite considerable slowdown in fourth quarter Financial summary Revenue 3.2bn 007:.
bn Profit 104m 007: 8 m Including 656m share of joint ventures and associates 007: 556m.
Profit from continuing operations before 5m exceptional charges 007: 9m and 3m amortisation of intangible assets 007: 3m.
Specialist areas Companies Professional services Balfour Beatty Major Civil Engineering Design Balfour Beatty Regional Civil Engineering Construction Balfour Beatty Ground Engineering Project management Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Services Foundations, strengthening, testing Balfour Beatty Management Civil engineering Balfour Beatty Utility Solutions Electrical engineering Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Inc.
Transmission lines Gammon 50% Road management and maintenance Dutco Balfour Beatty 9% Utility upgrade and maintenance BK Gulf 9% Balfour Beatty Sakti 9% Revenue breakdown 1 1 UK Civil Engineering 1,253m 32% growth 3 2 UK Utilities & Services 1,086m 10% growth 3 International 904m 24% growth Total 3,243m 22% growth 2 31 Major developments in 2008 Review of operations 008 was a significant year for the Group in the UK roads sector, both in delivery UK infrastructure and in securing major new schemes.
Our levels of activity are at an all-time high in Balfour Beatty Civil Engineering, which consists of Balfour Beatty Major this market.
Civil Engineering and Balfour Beatty Regional Civil Engineering, had a very Balfour Beatty Utility Solutions won new contracts in Canada and New strong year.
Zealand and, early in 009, was selected as a preferred provider to National Grid in The business was extremely busy in the roads sector, both in delivering the US, the first time the Group has won work with a major UK infrastructure owner successful projects and in gaining new work.
Balfour Beatty won, as part of the Interlink M7 joint venture, a 5m contract from Glasgow City Council to design and construct an 8km extension to the Our markets M7.
The company also began work on the A 1, an Early Contractor Involvement In UK civil and ground engineering, markets grew in 008 and we secured a scheme with the Highways Agency, between the M1 and Bedford.
Major opportunities include the M 5 widening, As part of the UK Governments investment in major transport projects to Crossrail and new-build in the UK nuclear sector.
stimulate the economy, the A 6 Newark to Widmerpool project, an Early Contractor The UK utilities market remained strong with the new asset management plan Involvement project, was given the go-ahead at the end of 008. periods in water and electricity distribution beginning in 010.
Work was successfully completed on the M1 junctions 6a 10 widening The market for professional and technical services is growing and, project and excellent progress was made on the A3 Hindhead improvement scheme increasingly, sophisticated customers require these skills to help them deliver major, and the A1 M between Bramham and Wetherby in Yorkshire.
Work will begin on the contracts to provide additional capacity for the M 5 We operate in a number of markets which are likely to benefit from additional and on the Carlisle Northern Development Route, once financial close is achieved.
infrastructure projects arising from economic stimulus packages.
Good progress was made on the Northern Ticket Hall project at Kings Cross, There has been a significant slowdown in Dubai, which, in the fourth quarter and work started on the first phase of the total reconstruction of Blackfriars station.
of 008, saw a rapid reduction in property development and prices, exacerbated by Satisfactory progress was made on the East London line, where the civil engineering a reduction in liquidity in the market.
The Groups focus on infrastructure positions contract will be completed in 009. us well for future work in Dubai, with further opportunities in Abu Dhabi and Qatar.
In December, Balfour Beatty announced it was partnering with AREVA, a Markets in Hong Kong and Singapore remain good, with some major world leader in nuclear power, to ensure effective delivery of a fleet of EPR nuclear infrastructure development programmes offering significant opportunities.
The Energy White Paper in 007 first set out the UK Governments in-principle support for a programme of new nuclear power stations Performance overview in the UK.
Site construction of the first EPR could start as early as 013.
Balfour Beatty also formed a joint venture with VINCI Construction to help Profit from continuing operations, before exceptional items and amortisation of deliver project management, construction and civil engineering infrastructure for the intangible assets, rose by 7% to 10 m 007: 8 m. EPR programme in the UK, both within the AREVA partnership and to bid for EPR We had an excellent year in the UK roads sector, both in delivery for example, sites for utilities adopting alternative procurement models in the UK, including EDF.
the M1 junctions 6a 10 widening project and in securing major new schemes The acquisition of Dean & Dyball added a strong, profitable presence in civil including the M7, A 1 and A 6 projects.
Connect Plus, in which we are a 0% engineering markets in the southern half of England and in Wales to the Group.
shareholder, was appointed preferred bidder on the M 5 widening scheme.
Together with the successful integration of Birse, which is showing good growth, Balfour Beatty Management, our professional and technical services business, this has broadened the customer base and helped to create the UKs leading coastal continued to grow strongly.
Dean & Dyball completed its contract from the Our utility business also made good progress during the year and further Olympic Delivery Authority to produce state-of-the-art facilities for sailing at developed its overseas power transmission business, winning new contracts in Weymouth and Portland in Dorset.
Early in 009, we were selected as a preferred provider Work started on the Aquatics Centre, as well as a number of roads and to support National Grids US electricity transmission capital investment programme.
bridges near the Olympic Park in Stratford.
In December, we announced we were partnering with AREVA, a world leader The regional civils business made good progress on a number of projects including in nuclear power, to ensure effective delivery of a fleet of EPR nuclear reactors in work for BAA in Scotland under a framework agreement, the infrastructure for East the UK.
Midlands Parkway, a new park and ride train station to serve East Midlands Airport and Overseas, performance in Gammon, which operates in Hong Kong and the infrastructure for Phase 1 of the Ravenscraig Redevelopment in North Lanarkshire.
In the US, profitability has continued to improve.
A 36m contract to build a runway extension at Isle of Man airport was secured.
There has been a considerable slowdown in Dubai.
Our businesses performed Following eight successful years working on the Forth Bridge, Balfour Beatty well in 008, with a particular emphasis on infrastructure projects.
Our result started work on the new contract for Network Rail to complete the remaining in Dubai, however, was affected by a cautious view of project recoveries and restoration and painting programme.
Overall, 008 was a year of significant growth.
Major projects were secured in the UK for the Highways Agency, the Scottish Office and Network Rail: in the US for the Texas Department of Transportation and the water industry in California: and in South-East Asia for the Hong Kong Work has started on the first phase of the total reconstruction of Blackfriars station, London.
The sector order book increased by 11% to.
3 Civil and Specialist Engineering and Services Balfour Beatty Ground Engineering had a strong year in volume and profit The A3 Hindhead improvement scheme made good progress.
Mini-piling specialist Branlow was acquired in 008, joining existing businesses Stent and Pennine.
Balfour Beatty Ground Engineering worked on major infrastructure projects at the M7 in Scotland and at the Aquatics Centre for the Olympics and has a significant order book for 009.
A new business, Balfour Beatty GeoEnvironmental, was launched to provide a complete service for land remediation.
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Services, the integrated provider of highway and street lighting contracting and consulting services, had a steady year.
In the roads business, performance within the existing portfolio of strategic roads for the Highways Agency was good.
The company performed well in Area Somerset, Avon, Wiltshire, Gloucestershire and Devon where Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Services works closely with the Highways Agency to provide safe roads, reliable journeys, informed travellers and a protected environment.
While the contracts with Hampshire County Council and the Highways Agency Area 3 ended in 008, this will be offset by the M 5 widening scheme, for which Connect Plus was appointed preferred bidder in 008, and which should reach financial close in the first half of 009.
The Local Authority business performed satisfactorily.
It secured a two-year Utilities contract extension in Westminster and made progress in North-West Scotland.
Balfour Beatty Utility Solutions, whose services contribute to the maintenance The street lighting business performed well and is now one of the leading and provision of essential utility assets, performed strongly.
street lighting contractors in the UK.
Concessions are operated on behalf of Connect In the water sector, good overall progress was made during the year on its Roads in Sunderland, South Tyneside and Derby.
portfolio of long-term contracts and bids are being prepared for contracts under Chris Britton Consultancy, which was acquired during 007, has enabled the AMP5 the asset management plan period which will run between 010 and 015. company to provide a range of specialist technical support to clients, particularly in In the gas sector, good progress was made on the Greater Manchester asset and pavement systems, management and consultancy.
Alliance gas mains network contract, where Balfour Beatty is working in a long-term Professional services partnership with National Grid on the design, management and construction work Balfour Beatty Management continued to grow strongly in 008, particularly in required to replace Victorian metallic gas mains with modern pipework systems, supporting cross-Group activities for sophisticated, major customers.
and on the gas mains replacement contract for northern England for Northern It plays an important role in the Group, managing a range of major projects and Gas Networks.
providing much of the upfront thinking and management skills required to deliver In the electricity sector, the company performed well on the work for National complex, integrated projects for customers such as National Grid, British Energy, Grid to upgrade and develop the electricity transmission network in the eastern half BAA, the Olympic Delivery Authority and the Highways Agency.
During the year, Balfour Beatty Management successfully led the bids Two programmes of work were awarded by ScottishPower Energy Networks, for the M 5 widening scheme and on the Aquatics Centre being built for the valued at nearly 0m, at Clyde and Crystal Rig as part of the programme to connect London 01 Olympics.
new wind farm capacity to the transmission network.
Work at the Kings Cross Northern Ticket Hall see case study on pages Balfour Beattys track record with National Grid in the UK helped to secure 1 and 15 is progressing well, as are the Groups alliances with National Grid.
selection in early 009 as a preferred provider, in joint venture, to support the Working with Balfour Beatty Utility Solutions, Balfour Beatty Management delivery of National Grids US electricity transmission capital investment programme was part of the team that secured a power transmission contract in Canada, in New England.
The five-year contract for the design and build of substations and in an alliance to assist ATCO Electric in completing its capital works programme transmission lines in Massachusetts, Rhode Island and New Hampshire will be in Alberta.
carried out by the New Energy Alliance, a joint venture between Balfour Beatty and Building on this success, early in 009, Balfour Beatty was selected, in joint MJ Electric.
venture, as a preferred provider to support the delivery of National Grids US The total value of the capital projects awarded by National Grid US for both electricity transmission capital investment programme in New England over the next New England and for New York State, where another joint venture partner was also five years.
Balfour Beatty Management is working alongside Balfour Beatty Utility selected, is approximately $1.7bn.
There is an option to extend the Alliance for a Solutions and Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Inc. further three years after the initial five-year period.
Since its inception in 003, Balfour Beatty Management has grown to over Work in Australia continued and new contracts were won in Canada and 600 professional staff.
It is currently bidding a number of major projects and it is New Zealand.
anticipated that the business will become an increasingly integral part of a number In Canada, the Group signed an alliance agreement to assist ATCO Electric in of Balfour Beattys major customer relationships in 009. completing its capital programme and to meet electrical transmission needs.
Balfour Beatty is providing engineering, construction, procurement and project management services, as part of a joint venture, for the C$700m capital works programme over the next five years.
In New Zealand, Balfour Beatty signed an alliance agreement with Transpower, which owns and operates the high-voltage electricity transmission grid, for the construction of the proposed transmission line from Whakamaru to Auckland.
The contract, valued at NZ$ 30m 8 m is being carried out in joint venture.
33 International infrastructure Balfour Beattys interests in Dubai comprise 9% stakes in Dutco Balfour Beatty, Profitability has continued to improve at Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Inc. a building and civil and marine engineering contractor, and BK Gulf, a mechanical which provides civil engineering and construction services for transportation and and electrical engineering contractor.
The Groups businesses New orders in 008 included the $ 07m Vineyard Water Treatment Plant in performed well in 008, with a particular emphasis on infrastructure projects.
The Vineyard plant will receive its water from the Freeport Water The result in Dubai, however was affected by a cautious view of project recoveries Intake Facility that Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Inc. is also constructing in the and cash flows.
Sacramento River, reflecting its strong presence in the provision of water treatment Dutco Balfour Beatty completed the Burj Mall, the worlds biggest shopping and water-handling facilities in California.
centre which opened in November, and good progress was made on major In Seattle, an $89m contract was secured for the new Sunnyside Wastewater improvement and extension projects to the Emirates and Sheikh Zayed roads.
Treatment Plant, part of the strategy to expand along the West Coast and meet the BK Gulf, which has 30 years experience in the United Arab Emirates and the increasing demand for more water and wastewater treatment plant infrastructure.
Middle East, performed well in 008.
Good progress was made on the Dorchester Tunnel in Boston, a $1 6m project During the year, it was awarded the contract, valued at Dhm6 0m, for the for the Massachusetts Water Authority.
At the end of 008, the $56m project for supply and installation of M&E and key operational systems at University Hospital.
the New Crystal Springs Bypass Tunnel was secured in joint venture.
Working BK Gulf completed its programme of work at the Atlantis Hotel in Dubai, which for the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission, the project calls for the drilling opened in November 008. of a tunnel 11 feet in diameter and, 00-feet long and is scheduled for completion In Abu Dhabi, work was won at the Marina Hotel project, which forms part of in 011. the new development to provide a Formula 1 standard racing complex, on Yas Island.
There was further success on highways work in Dallas, with two significant projects along State Highway 1 1 for the Texas Department of Transportation, and Outlook two new contracts, totalling more than $35m, were agreed with the North Carolina Our markets continue to offer significant opportunity.
In Dubai, the significant Department of Transportation.
slowdown will depress revenues and cash performance in that market in 009.
Work on the $39m contract to replace the Trent River Bridge in New Bern, also Despite this, we have a very strong order book and expect another year of in North Carolina, progressed well.
good progress in the sector.
A $67m highways infrastructure project for the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation was completed ahead of schedule, while good progress was made on the I-79 project near Pittsburgh.
Good progress was made on the contract to replace theTrent River Bridge in North Carolina.
At the end of the year, some prospective projects were deferred or delayed, as anticipation of the US Governments economic stimulus package held back project commitments.
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Inc. expects to bid for a number of infrastructure projects from the second quarter of 009 onwards, particularly for highways and bridges, and is well-positioned to take advantage of an upturn in the market.
Performance in Gammon Construction, the Groups joint venture company in South-East Asia, was steady.
Gammon is the leading contractor in Hong Kong.
Its year-end order book of approximately 650m was at a record level.
Major wins included the contract for the design and construction of the new Central Government Complex for Hong Kong known as the Tamar Development Project.
The contract, which will be executed in joint venture, is worth HK$.
9bn and is scheduled for completion in 011.
The Hong Kong Director of Highways awarded Gammon a HK$.
8bn contract for the reconstruction and improvement of a 6.8km section of the Tuen Mun road between Tsuen Wan and Tsuing Lung Tan.
In Singapore, Gammon grew strongly and secured a number of contracts including a S$100m project to help build a renewable diesel plant at Tuas industrial zone for Neste Oil and transportation infrastructure work at the Chinatown Station underground development for the Land Transport Authority.
In August 008, Gammon Capital reached financial close on the 100m Institute of Technical Education PPP project in Singapore, which will result in building work for Gammon Construction.
In Macau, work on a further phase of the Venetian Hotel and Casino complex was suspended as a result of economic uncertainty.
In Hong Kong, good progress was made on the Kowloon Southern Link and the contract to build One Island East, a 70-storey office building on the Eastern Shore of Hong Kong Island was completed in 008.
In December 008, Gammon was awarded the contract to design and build the Hong Kong Pavilion at the World Exposition 010 in Shanghai.
Gammon anticipates a number of major big infrastructure bids in Singapore and Hong Kong in 009, particularly mass transit, road and rail projects.
3 Operating review Rail Engineering and Services RAIL ENGINEERING AND SERVICES Steady progress in UK and international businesses Highlights Acquisition of Schreck-Mieves in Germany 250m Gotthard Base Tunnel project secured in Switzerland Successes in international high-speed electrification and power supply business Good performance in UK track renewals Financial summary Revenue 1.1bn 007: 0.8bn Order book 1.2bn 007: 0.9bn Profit 41m 007: 0m Including 39m share of joint ventures and associates 007: 10m.
Profit from operations before nil exceptional items 007: m credits and 1m amortisation of intangible assets 007: nil.
Specialist areas Companies Design Balfour Beatty Rail Projects Construction Balfour Beatty Rail Services Project management Balfour Beatty Rail Systems and Solutions Maintenance Balfour Beatty Rail Germany Austria Track renewals Balfour Beatty Rail International Specialist plant, products and systems Balfour Beatty Rail Inc Electrification and power supplies Signalling Remote condition monitoring Revenue breakdown 1 1 UK 533m 35% growth 2 Other 522m 34% growth Total 1,055m 34% growth 2 35 Major developments in 2008 Review of operations The acquisition of Schreck-Mieves added a leading position in the trackwork Balfour Beatty Rail focuses on the design, construction, equipping, maintenance, market to existing operations in Germany.
management and renewal of rail assets and systems.
Work continued on a range of high-speed electrification projects across It has a significant presence throughout the UK, Germany and Italy and major Europe, notably in Italy and Germany, and Balfour Beatty is well-placed for further projects in Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Spain, Austria, Switzerland, China work as part of the drive to connect major urban centres by high-speed rail links.
and Malaysia, as well as its US rail business.
UK rail Our markets UK rail operations consist of three principal businesses: In the UK, Network Rails Control Period 3 CP3 concludes in 009 with the new Balfour Beatty Rail Services, one of the UKs largest track renewals and rail plant Control Period CP running from April 009 to March 01.
In February 009, organisations, providing renewals services for more than 5% of the UKs rail Network Rail announced that it had accepted the Office of Rail Regulations rail infrastructure: spending budget and that it would spend 8.5bn on Britains rail infrastructure Balfour Beatty Rail Projects, a leader in rail engineering projects for track and over the next five years.
electrification in the UK and throughout the world, with operations in Europe, Progress continues to be made on the planning and financing of Crossrail, Asia, South America and Australia: and the new rail route planned through London.
The associated rail work will bring Balfour Beatty Rail Systems and Solutions, which designs, manufactures and significant future opportunity.
supplies switches and crossings, as well as other rail products and components.
The UNIFE 008 World Rail Market Report predicted future growth in the rail supply industry and identified the importance of rail as a sustainable means Balfour Beatty Rail Services had a good year with work continuing for Network of transport.
Rail as one of its four retained renewals contractors.
A significant improvement in renewal efficiency and quality was achieved in the year.
The commitment to Performance overview invest in six new tamping machines to enhance the existing fleet will enable higher quality and quantity of outputs to be achieved in the future.
There was steady progress in 008, with profit from operations, before exceptional In Balfour Beatty Rail Projects, progress was made on growing the longitems and amortisation of intangible assets, rising by 3% to 1m 007: 0m, term order book in both UK and overseas markets with notable contract awards for and revenues exceeding 1bn for the first time.
the reconstruction of the Airdrie-Bathgate Rail Link in Scotland: two line extensions There was another good result from our international high-speed rail for Santiago Metro in Chile: and the rail systems installation for the 57km Gotthard electrification and power supply business and further improvement in our US Base Tunnel in Switzerland which will be the longest railway tunnel in the world business.
In the UK, profit was slightly down compared to last year, principally when it opens for commercial services in 017 working in tandem with Balfour due to some settlements received in 007.
Beatty Rail Germany as part of the Transtec Gotthard consortium.
The acquisition of Schreck-Mieves in Germany enhances our ability to deliver Balfour Beatty Rail Projects is involved in many of the UKs major rail schemes: major, multi-disciplinary projects.
the joint venture for the delivery of the East London line, with progress on the first of Major projects secured in the year included rail systems work for the two phases to extend the existing line at both the north and the south ends: a large Gotthard Base Tunnel in Switzerland and the high-speed Madrid-Levante line portfolio of rail enhancements for London Underground: and electrification works on in Spain, contributing to a 33% increase in the order book to 1. bn at the end the West Coast Main Line, which were completed in December 008. of 008.
Other projects successfully completed in the year included the double-tracking of the railway between Gretna Station and Annan in Scotland for Network Rail and 1 new sidings at Orient Way in East London, including overhead line equipment Schreck-Mieves, a German rail engineering group, was acquired in July 2008. and signalling for the ODA Olympic Delivery Authority.
In engineering services there is a full programme of track and electrification design work both in the UK and overseas.
Work on the design of the electrification of suburban lines in Auckland, New Zealand commenced during the year.
Signalling Solutions, the joint venture with Alstom, performed satisfactorily and completed signalling upgrade works at Trent Valley and Milton Keynes.
Work in Australia continued on upgrading the railway between Brisbane and Sydney.
In early 009, further work in Singapore was secured.
Balfour Beatty Rail Systems and Solutions recorded a creditable performance and built on its position as one of the few companies with the in-house expertise and resources to develop new solutions for rail infrastructure, aimed at measuring, monitoring and improving network safety and reliability.
Development of products focused on the design and manufacture of trackwork and a number of technology-based products and services.
Laser Rail, which specialises in the development of small-scale solutions for track and other rail infrastructure, has been successfully integrated into the business, following its acquisition in 007.
The move from Bathgate to a new factory in South Queensferry was completed early in 009.
This enhances the companys ability to be a core supplier of cast manganese products, such as trackwork and crossings, for Network Rail and other customers around the world.
36 Rail Engineering and Services Double-tracking of the railway between Gretna station and Annan in Scotland.
Rail operations outside the UK Balfour Beatty Rail International, which comprises the Groups rail interests in Balfour Beatty Rail Germany Austria performed strongly.
Italy, Spain, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Malaysia and China, made good progress.
Three major electrification projects were secured from Deutsche Bahn, In Italy, Balfour Beatty was awarded the 0m power supply and with a total value of approximately 80m.
Towards the end of the year, the electrification works on the entire 0km section by the Metro C consortium, Hamburg-Lbeck high-speed line was inaugurated following the completion which has secured the contract to build a new line on Romes existing underground of the double-track electrification project begun in 006. metro.
A 17m contract for renewal works on the North-West regions railway Good progress was made on the rail link at Berlin Brandenburg international network was also secured.
airport where Balfour Beatty Rail is working with Deutsche Bahn to supply the mass Balfour Beatty is working on a number of electrification projects in Italy, transit and mainline utilising traditional catenary, overhead conductor rail and including the high-speed rail link programme to connect all the main cities and medium-voltage equipment.
incorporating links from Turin to Milan and Bologna, and Florence and Rome to In Germany, a joint venture was established with Bombardier called Inosig, Naples.
The Milan to Bologna line, which now has a journey time of one hour, was combining Balfour Beatty Rails infrastructure expertise with Bombardiers signalling inaugurated in December 008 and the business is well-placed to win further know-how, and work began on a project at Kreiensen.
Milan is hosting the 015 Expo, and is aiming to transform its transport Together with Balfour Beatty Rail Projects in the UK, and as part of the network, creating further project opportunities.
Transtec Gotthard consortium, a major contract was secured for the rail systems In Spain, Balfour Beatty won a 93m contract, with its partners, to deliver work for the Gotthard Base Tunnel in Switzerland.
The contract is likely to be worth catenary and associated systems on the Madrid-Motilla del Panacar section of approximately 50m in total to Balfour Beatty.
The project will involve the design, Spains high-speed Madrid-Levante line.
installation and commissioning of rail infrastructure equipment for the tunnel and In Sweden, work continues on the Bothnia line track, electrification and includes the equipping of both single track tunnels which are each 57km long, as power supply project.
A number of contracts, with a value of around 100m well as the adjoining open north and south sections totalling approximately 11km in total, were won in Sweden, Norway and Denmark for electrification and in length.
Balfour Beattys responsibilities for the installation programme include multi-disciplinary projects.
project management, complex logistics, trackwork, overhead catenary and part of In Malaysia, a letter of intent was signed to design, supply and install the medium-voltage supply lines for the tunnel works.
electrification, power supply, signalling and communications on 330km of double Schreck-Mieves, a German rail engineering group, was acquired in 008 for track between Ipoh and Padang Besar.
The project will be carried out in joint venture 3 m. Schreck-Mieves is a track construction business, which manufactures with Ansaldo STS and is the Groups largest rail project to date in Malaysia.
Work is switches and crossings and supplies specialist plant and equipment.
It supplies expected to be completed by January 013.
Deutsche Bahn and numerous mass transit and industrial customers in Germany.
Schreck-Mieves has performed in line with expectations at the time of the acquisition.
Looking ahead, there are opportunities for the business to add volume through market share growth and geographical expansion in Germany.
37 This award follows the completion of the electrification and signalling systems from Balfour Beatty is working on a number of electrication projects in Italy.
Rawang to Ipoh in Malaysia and is part of a large railway infrastructure investment by the State of Malaysia to create a modern and efficient railway connection between Kuala Lumpur and the Thai border, with the long-term objective of establishing a Pan-Asian Link connecting Singapore to China.
In China, delivery of the high-speed electrification project Tianjin-Shenyang was completed and preferred bidder status was secured for a catenary project.
Performance in Balfour Beatty Rail Inc in the US continues to improve.
A $6 m contract for the West Corridor Light Rail systems and signals and a $58m on-call contract for upgrades to existing systems were secured in Denver.
The three-year West Corridor project comprises a 1 -mile extension to the existing light rail system and includes the supply, installation, testing and commissioning of the systems elements of the project.
Other project wins included the Expo line Los Angeles light rail systems with additional signal and communications work on the Metro link.
The services division won a significant ballast cleaning contract with the Burlington Northern Sante Fe freight company.
Opportunities for light rail and transit systems are being pursued in Seattle, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Orlando and Denver.
The business is now headquartered in Atlanta, the location of both Heery and Balfour Beatty Infrastructure head offices, and is well-placed for growth, based on its now stable foundations and a strengthening market.
Outlook In the medium term, the outlook for rail is very positive, as a result of both new requirements and the replacement of ageing infrastructure.
In the short term, we anticipate further modest progress in 009.
Balfour Beatty Rail undertakes track renewals for Network Rail.
38 Operating review Investments INVESTMENTS Strong progress in the UK and strategic expansion in the US Highlights Acquisition of Balfour Beatty Communities in the US Financial close on Islington Schools and Singapore Institute of Technical Education Preferred bidder on M25 Acquisition of Blackpool International Airport Financial summary Revenue 553m 2007: 394m Concessions in hand UK: 29 US: 17 Singapore: 1 including four at preferred bidder in UK 2007: 27 in UK Profit 31m 2007: 16m Including 393m share of joint ventures and associates 2007: 343m.
Profit from continuing operations before 5m exceptional charges 2007: nil and 9m amortisation of intangible assets.
Specialist areas PPP Companies Education Balfour Beatty Capital Healthcare Balfour Beatty Capital Germany Roads Balfour Beatty Capital US Power systems Balfour Beatty Communities Water Gammon Capital Coastal defence Military housing Non-PPP investments Barking Power Blackpool International Airport Exeter International Airport 39 Major developments in 2008 The Institute ofTechnical Education in Singapore reached financial close in 2008.
US The acquisition in the US of Balfour Beatty Communities formerly GMH Military Housing from GMH Communities for $350m in April 2008 was a major step in implementing our strategy of building a high-quality, domestic business in the US.
Balfour Beatty Communities is a market leader in the development, financing, operation and management of military accommodation PPP projects for the US Departments of the Army, Navy and Air Force.
Following the acquisition, Balfour Beatty Communities reached financial close on three concessions and acquired a further two concessions, and by the end of 2008 was responsible for 17 US military housing privatisation projects covering family housing at 44 military bases and one unaccompanied personnel project.
UK Following the acquisition of 60% of Exeter International Airport in 2007, we acquired 95% of Blackpool International Airport in May 2008, as part of the strategy to extend Our markets our business into non-PPP investments.
UK There remains a strong commitment to improve public services in the UK with PPP Blackpool International Airport is a well-located airport acquired in May 2008. a key part of the procurement process and, despite financial issues in the market, we expect a steady flow of opportunities to continue, particularly in the education sector.
Inevitably, the market for the procurement of public services is changing and alternative PPP models and new public procurement models are emerging.
There will be opportunities to bid a number of schools projects in the UK in 2009 under the Building Schools for the Future BSF initiative.
During 2008, Balfour Beatty achieved financial close on its first BSF project using a Local Educational Partnership LEP model, a new form of partnership with local education authorities, at Islington Schools.
In the UK healthcare market, there has been a reduction in the number of major hospital projects coming to market.
In the UK roads sector, Balfour Beatty has a strong record and the M25 widening scheme is expected to reach financial close in the first half of 2009.
Social housing, prisons, highways maintenance and fire and rescue are all potential new sectors for UK PPP.
US The PPP P3 market in the US is slowly evolving.
Following the acquisition of Balfour Beatty Communities, the company is well-placed to win concessions for more of the remaining military family housing projects, along with the unaccompanied military personnel housing schemes currently being piloted.
Balfour Beatty is reviewing potential opportunities for new privatisation projects in the US for student accommodation and educational facilities, renewable energy, and social infrastructure projects such as hospitals and court houses.
Singapore In Singapore, financial close was reached on the first accommodation-based PPP in the country, and we look forward to completing construction of the Institute of Technical Education in 2010.
Germany We continue to evaluate opportunities in Germany and other parts of Europe.
Strategy In the UK, we have a leading position in the PPP market and will continue to pursue bidding opportunities which align with the Groups competitive strengths.
Balfour Beattys integrated capability in combining its engineering, construction and services skills, together with the strength of the balance sheet and track record of delivering successful PPP schemes, will continue to be a key differentiator.
In the US, Balfour Beatty Communities is the market leader in the most developed PPP market military housing and is well-positioned to leverage the Groups expertise in winning further privatisation projects.
The skills acquired in PPP will continue to be applied to the wider infrastructure market, in particular where there are attractive opportunities to take management control and to improve the quality of assets in markets and sectors that are familiar to us.
40 Investments Performance overview Balfour Beatty Communities is a market leader in military housing PPP projects in the US.
Our PPP concession and non-PPP investment portfolio has grown both organically and through acquisition to become a very significant part of the Groups business and a major driver of shareholder value.
Profit from continuing operations, before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets, increased by 94% to 31m 2007: 16m.
There was good underlying concession performance and a first contribution from Balfour Beatty Communities in the US.
Acquired in April 2008, Balfour Beatty Communities is a major addition to our Investments business and performed well, in line with our expectations at the time of acquisition.
The acquisition secured a reliable, long-term profit and cash flow from a high-quality portfolio of PPP military housing concessions, as well as an experienced and successful management team to develop our presence in the growing US PPP market.
We reached financial close on phase 1 of the 150m Islington Schools for the Future PPP concession.
In Singapore, Gammon Capital, our PPP joint venture in South-East Asia, reached financial close for the new Institute of Technical Education ITE College West.
Preferred bidder status was achieved by Connect Plus, a consortium in which we have a 40% shareholding, for the PPP contract to provide additional capacity and maintain the M25.
We were also appointed preferred bidder for the 200m Outlook Southwark Schools for the Future programme.
The strong performance of Barking Power continued, driven by the beneficial Financial close is anticipated on three preferred bidder PPP projects in the UK impact of electricity prices on its revenue and also boosted by insurance recoveries the M25 widening and two other schemes in the first half of 2009. following a generator outage in 2007.
There is a healthy pipeline of UK projects and we expect increased bidding Our strategy to extend our infrastructure investment business beyond the activity in 2009, especially for schools projects.
UK PPP market, which began with the acquisition of Exeter International Airport in In the US military housing market, the long-term nature of our contracts 2007, continued in May 2008 with the acquisition of Blackpool International Airport.
provides strong visibility of earnings and there are further business development As is the case with Exeter, Blackpool is a well-located regional airport with long-term opportunities both within and outside the military accommodation PPP market.
While the current economic environment presents challenges for project In total, at 31 December 2008, we had committed equity and subordinated financing, we remain confident about the future and anticipate further growth.
debt of 516m across 47 PPP concessions, four of which were at preferred bidder stage.
Directors valuation of PPP concessions Using a single discount rate of 8.0% nominal post-shareholder tax, the 2008 directors valuation of the Groups PPP portfolio stands at 556m 2007 restated: 306m.
A full explanation of the PPP valuation is on pages 6 to 8 of the Directors report and accounts 2008.
Portfolio valuation: December 2008 Value by sector 1 2008 2007 Restated 1 Connect 158m 135m 2 Consort 135m 125m 3 Transform 42m 23m 2 5 4 Other 25m 23m 4 5 BBCommunities 196m 3 556m 306m Movement in value 2007 2008 m New Operational Equity Unwind of project performance 2008 FX Growth 2007 invested Distributions discount Rebased wins Acquisitions gains excl FX translation 2008 excl FX Balfour Beatty Capital 306 11 27 27 317 32 1 10 360 360 13.6% Balfour Beatty Communities 123 8 18 10 123 1 15 6 145 51 196 17.9% Total 429 19 45 37 440 33 16 16 505 51 556 14.8% Value of closed and preferred bidder projects acquired on 30 April 2008.
41 Education UK Hospitals UK Balfour Beatty Capitals schools schemes are managed by Transform Schools, Consort Healthcare, Balfour Beattys specialist organisation in the healthcare one of the largest providers of school education facilities in the UK.
Transform Schools works in partnership with local authorities to improve Its portfolio consists of interests in nine major hospital projects with 123m educational attainment through the design, building and management of of committed equity investment, including 7m at preferred bidder stage.
Four of the hospitals are fully operational Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, Transforms portfolio comprises eight large-scale schools schemes with 54m University Hospital North Durham, the Royal Blackburn Hospital and University of committed equity investment, including 5m at preferred bidder stage.
College London Hospital, the second stage of which was completed on time Of the eight schemes, five are fully operational with new facilities in North during 2008.
Lanarkshire in Scotland and Bassetlaw in Nottinghamshire having come on stream The new mental health facilities, part of the Birmingham New Hospitals in 2008. scheme, were completed five weeks early and are now in operation.
The remainder Transform Schools is now responsible for a total estate of 164 primary and of the large-scale project at Birmingham is scheduled for completion in 2011 and secondary schools, and two leisure centres, spread over five major schemes in will relocate most of the key clinical and mental health facilities to the south of the Stoke, Rotherham, North Lanarkshire, Bassetlaw and Birmingham.
Total committed investment for this project is 23m.
In July, Transform reached financial close on Phase 1 of the Islington Schools Good progress has been made on the other hospital schemes currently under BSF PPP programme.
This is Transform Schools first BSF project comprising the development.
The Pinderfields and Pontefract Hospitals Development Project will Local Educational Partnership delivery model, the model under which the majority deliver a new acute inpatient hospital in Wakefield on the existing Pinderfields of BSF projects are likely to be procured in the future.
Hospital site and a new diagnostic and treatment centre in Pontefract.
The concession will project manage and deliver new and refurbished Tameside General Hospital and a new acute hospital at Hope Hospital, accommodation at two schools together with facilities management and ICT Salford are under construction.
In addition, a new school will be delivered.
Consort is preferred bidder for the Fife General Hospital and Maternity Over the next five years, a further two phases will be delivered comprising Services PPP and expects to reach financial close in the first half of 2009. five schools and two pupil referral units.
In November, Transform was appointed as preferred bidder for the 200m Southwark Schools for the Future programme.
Financial close is scheduled for the second quarter of 2009, with the first new schools opening in September 2010 and 2011.
Good progress is being made on the construction of seven new learning centres under the 163m Knowsley Metropolitan Borough Council PPP concession, which reached financial close in December 2007.
Bids are in preparation for Sandwell, Cambridgeshire, Hull, and Blackburn with Darwen and Bolton schools projects.
Edinburgh Royal Infirmary Stoke Schools University Hospital of North Durham Rotherham Schools University College London Hospital UCLH North Lanarkshire Schools Royal Blackburn Hospital Bassetlaw Schools Birmingham Hospitals Birmingham Schools Pinderelds and Pontefract Hospitals Knowsley Schools Salford Hope Hospital Islington Schools Tameside Hospital Southwark Schools Fife Hospital Preferred bidder.
42 Investments Infrastructure projects Roads and street lighting UK Other PPP concessions Connect Roads, which manages highways schemes and street lighting projects, The Group owns and operates a number of other PPP concessions in the UK also performed strongly in 2008. and overseas.
It has 149m of committed equity investment, including 86m at preferred UK bidder stage.
In 2008, Powerlink, which operates and maintains London Undergrounds highConnect Roads expertise ranges from initial planning and design, feasibility voltage power system, continued its upgrade works on the Victoria line, which are and environmental studies, through to construction and ongoing maintenance.
The existing road concessions performed well in 2008.
Aberdeen Environmental Services, which is responsible for five wastewater During the year, Connect Plus, a consortium comprising Balfour Beatty 40%, treatment plants in Aberdeen, performed satisfactorily.
Skanska 40%, Atkins 10% and Egis Projects SA 10%, was appointed preferred Following the Dean & Dyball acquisition, the Group has a 25% interest in a bidder for the PPP contract to provide additional capacity and to maintain the M25.
small, coastal flood defence project at Pevensey, on the south coast of England.
The substantial programme will focus on adding capacity to 63 miles of the M25 and will help deliver significant improvements to one of the UKs busiest and most Overseas important roads.
Gammon Capital, the PPP vehicle in South-East Asia in which Balfour Beatty has a At the end of 2007, Connect was awarded preferred bidder status on the 50% interest, reached financial close for Singapores new Institute of Technical Carlisle Northern Development Route, a 150m project for the design, construction Education ITE College West in August 2008. and operation and maintenance of a network of roads in the area.
The project, Gammon Capitals first in PPP and the first accommodation-based In street lighting, the Sunderland street lighting core investment programme PPP in Singapore, has a contract period of 27 years and a capital value of has been completed and progress was made on the street lighting concessions for approximately 100m.
It is scheduled to be completed in 2010, with its first intake South Tyneside and Derby.
Bids are being or have been prepared for street lighting of students in July of that year.
projects in Surrey, Coventry and East Shires Cambridgeshire Northants.
In total, Balfour Beatty has 17m committed to these four concessions.
M1-A1 A50 Stoke Derby link A30 A35 M77 Glasgow Southern Orbital Sunderland Street Lighting South Tyneside Street Lighting Powerlink PADCO Derby Street Lighting Aberdeen Environmental Services Carlisle Northern Development Route Pevensey Coastal Defence M25 Institute of Technical Education, Singapore Preferred bidder.
43 Balfour Beatty Communities Non-PPP investments US military housing Barking Power The acquisition of Balfour Beatty Communities formerly GMH Military Housing Barking Power, which owns and operates a 1,000MW gas-fired power station in from GMH Communities for $350m in April 2008 was a major step in implementing east London, performed strongly in 2008. the Groups strategy of building a high-quality, domestic business in the US.
The station operated reliably and at high levels of capacity.
Financial performance Balfour Beatty Communities is the market leader in the development, was driven by the beneficial impact of electricity prices and was also boosted by financing, operation and management of military accommodation PPP projects insurance recoveries following a generator outage in 2007. for the US Departments of the Army, Navy and Air Force.
Congressionally authorised since 1996, the Military Housing Privatisation Airports Initiative allows the Department of Defense and Services to work with the Performance at Exeter International Airport and Blackpool International Airport was private sector to upgrade the quality of family housing and operate and maintain at anticipated levels, with reduction in passenger numbers being largely offset by that housing.
cost savings, an improvement in passenger yields and increases in non-aeronautical Balfour Beatty Communities performed well in 2008 and in line with revenues.
expectations at the time of acquisition.
Exeter International Airport Following the acquisition, three concessions reached financial close in 2008: Exeter is one of the most important regional airports in the country, helped by its the Air Mobility Command AMC West military housing privatisation project, status as an important base for FlyBe.
It handled nearly 1m arriving and departing covering three Air Force bases, including Fairchild Air Force Base, located near passengers in 2008.
Spokane, Washington: Travis Air Force Base, located near Fairfield, California: The airport development master plan, a draft of which was published in May and Tinker Air Force Base located near Oklahoma City, Oklahoma: 2008, sets out a strategy which will see Exeter Airport develop its infrastructure to the West Point military housing privatisation project at the Armys oldest deal with the increasing demands for business and leisure flights both to and from continuously occupied military post in the United States, dating back to 1778: and the region.
the military family housing project at Fort Jackson, South Carolina.
Plans for growth include new terminal facilities, new aircraft stands and in the longer term, further terminal capacity, stand and taxiway development.
In addition, interests were acquired in the Armys Fort Leonard Wood privatisation These plans are expected to underpin the airports long-term future which will project in Pulaski County, Missouri and phases I and II of the 50-year military housing see a growth in passenger usage from its current c. 1m passengers per year to an privatisation project at Lackland Air Force Base, located in San Antonio, Texas.
estimated 1.9m passengers by 2015 and 3.3m by 2030.
Each concession has a 50-year term, commencing with an initial development period including design and construction, usually carried out by Balfour Beatty Blackpool International Airport Construction US, and overall management, maintenance and operational Balfour Beatty acquired 95% of Blackpool International Airport for 14m including responsibilities carried out by Balfour Beatty Communities.
acquired borrowings in May 2008, as part of the strategy to extend into non-PPP By the end of 2008, Balfour Beatty Communities was responsible for investments and to build a portfolio of regional airports.
17 military housing privatisation projects covering family housing at 44 military Situated one mile south of Blackpool town centre, the airports key customers bases and one unaccompanied personnel project.
The airport handled about half a Looking forward, Balfour Beatty Communities is well-placed to win concessions million passengers in 2008, flying 12 routes to the UK, Ireland, Isle of Man and for more of the remaining military family housing projects, along with mainland European destinations.
unaccompanied military personnel housing schemes currently being piloted.
Blackpool International Airport has the potential to become a thriving gateway to Lancashire and Cumbria.
The strategy is to deliver significant, sustained growth in passenger traffic at the airport by increasing penetration within the core catchment area and by attracting inbound visitors to the region.
Barking Power Exeter International Airport Blackpool International Airport 44 Corporate responsibility INTEGRATED RESPONSIBILITY In 2008, Balfour Beatty continued to make substantial progress in creating a safer working environment, in reducing its environmental impacts and in extending the value it adds to the communities in which it operates.
45 By the end of the year, over 55% of UK employees had successfully completed the programme.
This will continue to be rolled-out across the Group in 2009, and further, MANAGING OUR more detailed programmes will be developed.
The second, Stakeholder Code of Practice, sets the key operating principles RESPONSIBILITIES and minimum standards for the Groups operating companies when engaging with employees, customers, suppliers and the wider community.
The Board During 2008, the Group began a process to refine its ethical principles further, with an exercise to define its core values.
These will be widely communicated The Balfour Beatty Board sets policy and takes responsibility for the Groups during 2009. performance in safety, health, the environment, business ethics, risk management, Together, these documents constitute a comprehensive system of ethical human rights and other social issues.
The Business Practices Committee of the governance which will continue to be reviewed periodically.
Board, which comprises non-executive Directors under the chairmanship of Stephen Howard, reviews policy and performance in these areas.
Group policies In 2008, specific groups were identified to take responsibility for safety and for sustainability.
The Group Safety, Health and Environment team has also been Balfour Beatty has clearly-stated policies and principles for a range of important expanded during the year to offer greater support to our operating companies which issues such as risk management, safety, health, environment, human rights, equal also have their own dedicated resources.
opportunities, whistleblowing and competitive behaviour.
Within this framework, operating companies are required to develop specific policies and practices, relevant Guiding principles to their particular businesses.
It is Balfour Beattys policy to operate to clear and unequivocal standards of ethical Management systems behaviour.
The Group has set out five core principles, which are at the heart of all the Groups activities.
These are set out on our website, and in summary are: The Group-wide risk management framework provides a common system for identifying and controlling risks of all types.
The principal risks and risk management to comply with the law wherever we operate: are set out in the Directors report and accounts 2008 on pages 9 and 10. to conduct all our business and make all our decisions within a clear Each operating company, division and project is subject to rigorous risk analysis, ethical framework: evaluation and management.
Major risks and opportunities are reviewed regularly to maintain safe and healthy workplaces and ensure the safety of the public: at senior management levels including by the Audit Committee and Board.
to contribute positively to the physical and social environments in which Balfour Beatty Group and operating company review processes are also we operate: and in place for key non-financial issues.
to engage positively with all our stakeholders.
Safety and health issues are reviewed by the Board and its Executive Committee, with each main segment of the business having its own equivalent Balfour Beatty first defined and communicated a coherent set of ethical principles body.
Balfour Beatty requires all its operating companies to have formal safety in 1986.
Since then, these principles have been regularly reviewed and updated, management systems, which are subject to external audit.
Strategic environmental issues are reviewed by the sustainability working Two companion codes have also been developed to ensure adherence to these group, chaired by a Group managing director.
An environmental managers forum principles.
The first, Business Conduct Guidelines, explains to every employee reviews key topics and shares best practice between the operating companies.
what is expected of them, in terms of behaviour, procedures and attitudes.
In 2008, Environmental performance is audited regularly and Group-wide statistics are an online training programme to embed these principles was initiated.
collated in respect of the Groups major environmental impacts.
SUSTAINABILITY During 2008, a cross-sectoral sustainability working group was established under A Group-wide strategy on sustainability will be launched in early 2009.
Many of the leadership of a Group managing director.
With support from Forum for the our operating companies already have well developed sustainability programmes.
Future, current practices have been reviewed and a Group vision for 2020 has been The objective will be to accelerate and cross-fertilise the approaches already developed, incorporating sector leadership, innovation, integrity and life cycle developed in many parts of our business.
Our success as a sustainable company will be achieved by aligning the long-term interests of our markets, communities and the environment.
46 Corporate responsibility ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS Balfour Beatty recognises the importance of engagement with all its key Suppliers stakeholders as a key element of its corporate responsibility and to An increasing proportion of the Groups supply base is retained in long-term achieve its sustainability vision.
relationships based on the compatibility of their values and behaviour with Systems and programmes for stakeholder engagement are at different the requirements of the Group as well as product quality and price.
stages of development across the Group and are in the process of being We undertake rigorous checks on the financial strength of our supply base reviewed and enhanced.
before we sign contracts and seek to ensure that we are not over-reliant on any particular business.
Employees There is a comprehensive corporate and operating company-based communications Government and regulators programme aimed at ensuring that all employees have access to relevant and timely The majority of Balfour Beattys work is carried out for governments and regulated information about the Group and their own operating company.
The Group seeks active and positive relationships with governments, Most operating companies conduct regular employee attitude and opinion their officers and advisers and relevant industry regulators to ensure its policies surveys.
The first Group-wide survey of employee opinion commenced in 2007 and align with their key requirements.
A range of action plans was identified with operating companies taking the lead.
In addition to other measures, this confirmed that employees were aware of the Groups Business Conduct Guidelines and whistleblowing policy.
There were 28 issues raised through the whistleblowing procedures during the year 16 in 2007.
All of these were investigated and reported Bibliotheca Alexandrina project to the Boards Business Practices Committee.
The Group measures its equal opportunities performance.
In 2008, 20% of In October 2008, Balfour Beatty reached full settlement of all issues relating to the all employees were women and 15% were of ethnic minority origin.
These statistics Bibliotheca Alexandrina project in Egypt, a joint venture contract entered into have considerably improved from when measurement first took place in 1999. in 1996.
At graduate intake level in 2008, the proportion of women is 24%, the highest Balfour Beatty carried out its own fully-documented internal investigation level since we started recording across the Group in 2000, and of ethnic minorities of certain payment irregularities identified in the contract and, in April 2005, is 19%, again the highest level since we began recording in 2002. self-reported the findings to the appropriate authorities, including the Serious Fraud Office SFO, for further investigation.
As part of the settlement agreed with the SFO, Balfour Beatty agreed to review its existing codes of conduct to ensure they are consistent with best practice, to put in place further training programmes in the area of ethical business conduct, and to appoint an external monitor to review the policies and processes within the Group.
The external monitor appointed by Balfour Beatty is the Global Infrastructure Anti-Corruption Centre GIACC.
GIACC has been conducting a thorough review of Balfour Beatty and its existing systems.
The Board plans to implement the of employees are from ethnic minority origin recommendations of GIACC in full, and a copy of the GIACC report will be sent to the director of the SFO.
When complete, a summary of the contents of the In 2008, a suite of key performance indicators was developed which is being GIACC report, and its recommendations, will be provided in the Corporate Social implemented during 2009.
This will provide an improved level of reporting at Group Responsibility Report.
level and promote sharing of best practice throughout our businesses.
Shareholders Balfour Beatty runs an active shareholder engagement programme involving regular roadshows and one-to-one meetings.
Requests for meetings with and information about the Company are handled quickly and efficiently.
During 2008, senior executives held approximately 100 meetings with shareholders.
All financial presentations are webcast in order to ensure that they are accessible to all shareholders and other interested parties.
Customers Most of the Groups operating companies conduct regular customer attitude and opinion surveys.
A substantial proportion of the Groups business is conducted with organisations with which its operating companies have long-term relationships.
An increasing number of customers take advantage of the integrated nature of Balfour Beattys services by working with several operating companies.
workforce `000s 47 ENSURING SAFETY AND HEALTH Maintaining a first-class safety culture is key to our business and we 1993 to 2008 AFR workforce continue to make good progress.
1.0 140 Safety 0.8 120 In recent years, the Group has made consistent progress in reducing accidents.
In 0.6 100 2008, its Accident Frequency Rate AFR was reduced by 5%, the sixth consecutive year of improvement and stood at 0.20 reportable accidents per 100,000 man-hours 0.4 80 worked.
This has been achieved despite very significant increases in numbers 0.2 40 employed.
The Groups safety statistics are subject to independent external audit.
The Groups performance compares favourably with these external benchmarks.
Regrettably, there were eight fatalities during the year 18 in 2007.
Five of the fatalities were in joint venture business operations in South-East Asia and the Gulf, with one each in Australia, Chile and the UK.
Very significant effort is made in improving safety management standards throughout the Group to ensure that we reach high standards in all our businesses across the world.
All fatalities and serious incidents are fully investigated and reviewed at senior management level.
Root cause analyses are captured and logged to enable detection of system causes, and for appropriate programmes to be developed in response.
During National Road Safety Week, Balfour Beatty Plant and Fleet Services launched an award-winning driving simulator designed to reduce the risk of accidents and improve fuel efficiency.
This is part of the Groups strong commitment to improving road safety.
Zero Harm During 2008, the Group initiated a major programme to promote its aim to have zero fatalities, zero permanent disabling injuries, zero injuries to the public and to be accident free overall by 2012, while an accident frequency rate below 0.1 is achieved.
Entitled Zero Harm, this programme is led by a Group managing director.
It is intended to challenge the industrys assumptions about risk and extends to all parts of the Balfour Beatty Group, partners, subsidiaries and sub-contractors, working anywhere in the world.
Health The rigorous standards which the Group applies to safety management are increasingly now being applied to occupational health.
Occupational ill-health is often the result of prolonged exposure to substance, condition, process or activity and is not, therefore, easily measured in the short term.
The Groups approach is to identify the potential causes of ill-health and develop specific policies and programmes for each one.
Active programmes exist for hand-arm vibration syndrome, disorders arising from manual handling, alcohol and drug abuse and substances hazardous to health.
An enhanced occupational health OH strategy is under development, with our OH partners, and will be taken forward in 2009.
Stress management arrangements have also been enhanced.
AFR 48 Corporate responsibility PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Our goal is to prevent harm to the environment as a result of our actions.
Management Waste disposed Balfour Beatty works systematically to prevent negative environmental impact from UK tonnes disposed per m sales its activities and to improve its environmental performance at every stage of its work.
The Groups approach is structured and risk-based with formal environmental -18% compared to 2007 management systems, independently audited.
It continues to take the necessary steps to embed environmental management systems into the business both in the 236 UK and overseas.
199 199 153 126 The Group reviews and maintains progress by monitoring trends and performance in five specific areas.
These are: 04 05 06 07 08 energy use and greenhouse gas emissions: materials usage: Carbon footprint waste and recycling: UK tonnes equivalent CO per m sales 2 water consumption: and impact on  areas, including biodiversity.
-18% compared to 2007 The robustness of the Groups environmental management systems is also measured.
The Group continues to work hard to improve the quality and robustness of its data 45.7 41.2 in an environment characterised by a growing and constantly changing project 39.3 39.6 32.5 portfolio.
Five environmental incidents across the Group resulted in fines in the year three in the UK, one in the US and one in Hong Kong.
Corrective action has been 04 05 06 07 08 taken in all cases.
Validation and external audit of the 2008 data will not be complete until after the date of publication of this report.
Relevant data will appear on the Balfour Beatty website in May 2009 at www.
com 49 Energy use and greenhouse gas emissions Balfour Beatty has reduced its relative contribution to global warming by 47% over the period from 2004 to 2008 for its UK operations.
The Group invests in new and emerging technologies for vehicle emission reduction.
Most particularly, significant improvements have been achieved by the use of GPS and vehicle tracking systems in more economical vehicle routeing and usage.
During the year, the Group further developed its understanding of the carbon impacts of its projects through their life cycle.
The Group is making preparations for the introduction of the Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC in the UK.
Under CRC, large companies will be required to report and reduce their carbon emissions from fixed site sources under a cap and trade scheme.
Materials usage There is an increasingly systematic focus on our sourcing of materials, usage of non-renewable resources and evaluating and managing the Groups supply chain in respect of environmental issues.
For example, in 2008, 70% of all timber purchased in the UK came from managed sources, including 55% specifically from Water consumption Forest Stewardship Council schemes.
We continue to measure our consumption of water.
Rainwater harvesting and water Waste and recycling efficiency measures are applied across our projects.
The construction process typically generates large volumes of waste.
Over the last  areas six years, Balfour Beatty has raised the awareness of this problem across the business, and has improved its measurement of construction waste aided by the The Group has extended its range of key indicators to include positive and negative use of national waste contractors who are able to provide accurate data on waste effects on  sites and is developing its thinking on volumes and recycling.
All operating companies have reviewed their responsibilities for The total amount of waste disposed in 2008 across our UK operations was contaminated land.
Archaeological aspects of sites are explored thoroughly before 17.5% lower than in 2007 at 126 tonnes relative to m sales.
64% of all our waste commencement of use.
reduction in waste disposed relative to sales, compared to 2007 50 Corporate responsibility ADDING VALUE TO THE COMMUNITY It is Balfour Beattys intent to engage fully with the communities and individuals directly impacted by our project work and to keep them appropriately informed of progress and any issues which might affect them.
We are also committed to adding value to the work we undertake in creating and caring for infrastructure assets, by adding community benefits and offering opportunities to disadvantaged individuals.
Communities around our projects It is Balfour Beattys policy that all its major projects have a dedicated community relations team who provide information about the project to its stakeholders and manage relationships with them.
Typically, major projects will be preceded by exhibitions and presentations.
Regular newsletters and letter drops will keep stakeholders informed at key project milestones.
Key stakeholders will be offered direct access and, where required, there will be help-lines and liaison with local police and other emergency services.
Helping young people fulfil their potential Building Better Futures In 2009, to mark the companys Centenary year, Balfour Beatty formed a new charitable fund, The Balfour Beatty Charitable Trust.
Through this fund, a programme called Building Better Futures has been launched.
The fund will work in partnership with two major charities, Action for Children previously, NCH, the Childrens Charity and The Princes Trust, to help disadvantaged young people throughout the UK.
The funds will create accessible play areas for children at Action for Children centres and fund community cash awards for The Princes Trust.
The Company will Balfour Beatty received an Award of Excellence from The Princes Trust in November donate 200,000 and will also match money raised by employees.
This recognised the significant contribution the Group has made in supporting projects nominated by Balfour Beatty operating companies outside the UK will also the scheme and increasing the skills and opportunities for disadvantaged young be supported during the year.
The Group also sponsors The Princes Trust initiative Get into Construction.
In early 2009, Balfour Beatty became a patron of The Princes Trust and is also This offers training and employment in the construction industry to disadvantaged sponsoring the Trusts Educational Achiever of the Year award.
Some 49 courses have been run to date, assisting over 600 people Action for Children was Balfour Beattys principal charity partner in 2007 and and further courses are in the planning stage.
Of the individuals taking part to date, 2008.
During that period, the charity received over 250,000 from the Group, in a 95% have gone on to employment or further training.
mixture of corporate contributions and money raised by Balfour Beatty employees in a wide variety of fundraising activities.
of participants in Get into Construction have gone on to employment or further training 51 Balfour Beatty London Youth Games Groundwork UK Having become a supporter of the London Youth Games in 2006, Balfour Beatty Balfour Beatty has worked with Groundwork UK for three years to deliver improvement became the title sponsor in 2008, committing 1.7m to the Games in the projects close to long-term Balfour Beatty work sites, aimed at enhancing local period to 2013.
The London Youth Games is Europes largest youth sports programme.
amenities and facilities for neighbouring communities and engaging young In addition to the sponsorship programme, a sports development grant scheme local people in the process.
In 2008, the basis of the Groups relationship with encourages participation amongst school children at grassroots level and maximises Groundwork has been reviewed and a new programme of work with the charity participation of the 32 London Boroughs and the City of London in the Games.
A second grant scheme Sporting Pathways will promote the development of minority sports in London, in conjunction with their national governing bodies.
Other charities An employee volunteering scheme has been launched for all Balfour Beattys Our Chief Executive, Ian Tyler has continued his role as president of CRASH, the London-based staff, in conjunction with the Games.
construction and property industry charity for the homeless.
The Group continues to make donations to CRASH: to its former charity of the year, Marie Curie Cancer Care: to support the work of RedR, the engineering-based disaster relief charity: and remains a leading supporter of Engineers Against Poverty, the international charity dedicated to the alleviation of poverty in low-income countries.
Through Business in the Community BiTC the Group is supporting various activities, including a partnership arrangement to provide mentoring services to a school in Burnley.
In addition to the corporate programme, operating companies are extremely active in their local communities and have established partnerships with charities relevant to their own businesses.
For example, during its centenary year in 2008, Mansell ran a company-wide campaign to raise 1m on behalf of a range of charities.
Balfour Beatty Utility Solutions in conjunction with one of its largest customers, National Grid plc, offers convicted offenders, due to be released back into the community, the chance to be trained and employed in its infrastructure refurbishment and upgrade work on the gas and electricity networks.
Being able to pursue a specific job opportunity, while still detained, significantly increases the chances of a successful re-entry into society.
Balfour Beatty Construction US made a donation of $100,000 to the Pentagon Memorial Fund, in parallel with its work to build the Memorial.
Balfour Beatty Capital seeks to make a real and tangible difference through its charitable partnerships.
In 2008, this included a team undertaking project work in Malawi as part of the Times Leadership Challenge.
Stoke Football Action Reflecting the size of the Balfour Beatty fleet and our work with the Highways Over 100,000 of funding and substantial management support from Balfour Beatty Agency, several operating companies also have a working relationship with the road has unlocked public sector funds to create a 320,000 three-year football coaching safety charity BRAKE and support its campaigns.
programme in Stoke, where Balfour Beatty is the PPP schools concession company.
Now entering its final year, the programme has proven extremely effective in reducing vandalism and other anti-social behaviour among pupils at risk of social exclusion and is now being extended to include specialist centres for excluded pupils.
In 2008, the scheme involved 320 young people at 17 schools and centres.
52 Board of Directors Steve Marshall Ian Tyler Anthony Rabin Non-executive Chairman from 15 May 2008 Chief Executive Deputy Chief Executive from 31 March 2008 Andrew McNaughton Duncan Magrath Peter Zinkin Finance Director from 31 March 2008 Chief Operating Officer from 1 January 2009 Planning and Development Director Stephen Howard Hubertus Krossa Mike Donovan Non-executive Director from 9 September 2008 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Graham Roberts Gordon Sage Robert Walvis Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director from 1 January 2009 Board Committee membership is as follows: Audit Committee Business Practices Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Graham Roberts Stephen Howard Chair Steve Marshall Chair Robert Walvis Chair Chair from 5 March 2009 Mike Donovan Mike Donovan Stephen Howard Steve Marshall Chair to 5 March 2009 Hubertus Krossa Stephen Howard Hubertus Krossa Mike Donovan Steve Marshall Gordon Sage Steve Marshall Hubertus Krossa Graham Roberts Ian Tyler Gordon Sage Gordon Sage Robert Walvis Robert Walvis 53 Steve Marshall Ian Tyler Anthony Rabin Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Deputy Chief Executive Age 52.
A Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Age 48.
Appointed a Director 1999, he became Chief Executive in January 2005, A Director since 2002, he became Deputy Chief in 2005 and Chairman in May 2008.
Currently also having been Chief Operating Officer since 2002 Executive in March 2008, prior to which he was Finance chairman of Delta plc and a non-executive director of and prior to that, Finance Director.
He is responsible for the Groups worldwide Southern Water.
He is also a former chairman at both Beatty in 1996 from the Hanson Group where he infrastructure investment business, having previously Queens Moat Houses plc and Torex Retail plc.
He was was finance director of ARC Ltd, one of its principal been managing director of Balfour Beatty Capital.
chief executive of Thorn plc and of Railtrack Group plc, subsidiaries.
He is currently a non-executive director Prior to joining the Group in 1995, he was a partner at having also served as group finance director at each of VT Group plc, and president of Construction Coopers & Lybrand and before that, a senior assistant company.
His earlier career included a wide range of Industry Relief, Assistance and Support for the director at Morgan Grenfell.
corporate and operational roles at Grand Metropolitan Homeless Ltd, the construction and property industry plc, Black & Decker and BOC.
Andrew McNaughton Duncan Magrath Peter Zinkin Chief Operating Officer Finance Director Planning and Development Director Age 45.
A chartered civil engineer and Fellow of Age 44.
A chartered accountant and an engineering Age 55.
Joined the Group in 1981 and became the Institution of Civil Engineers.
Appointed to the Board as Finance Director Planning and Development Director in 1991 after a Operating Officer on 1 January 2009.
He joined Balfour in March 2008.
Joined Balfour Beatty in 2006 as deputy series of senior positions in the finance function.
Beatty in 1997, having spent 12 years with the Kier finance director from Exel plc, where he was director He is responsible for the Groups merger, acquisition Group, and held the position of managing director of of investor relations and financial strategy, following and divestment activities as well as the development Balfour Beatty Civil Engineering from 2004 to April a number of senior financial roles in the UK and US.
Previously, he worked at the London 2007, when he became Group managing director with Business School and UMIST.
He is a member of the responsibility for civil engineering in the UK and the leadership governance and management committee Group's interests in the Middle East.
He is a board of the Higher Education Funding Council and a former member of the Major Projects Association and he governor of the University of North London.
became a Freeman of the City of London and a Liveryman in the Worshipful Company of Engineers in 2006.
Mike Donovan Stephen Howard Hubertus Krossa Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Age 55.
Appointed a Director in September 2008. engineering graduate, he was most recently chief by background and was most recently group chief Until 2008, he was chief executive officer of KION operating officer of Marconi plc from 2001 to 2005. executive of Novar plc.
Prior to that, he was chief Group GmbH, a leading international material handling Prior to that, he was chief executive officer of Marconi executive of Cookson Group plc.
He is also a nonequipment manufacturer.
Prior to that, he spent seven Systems and was previously responsible for managing executive director of SEGRO plc and is chief executive years on the main board of Linde AG, the worldwide major divisions of British Aerospace, Vickers and the of Business in the Community.
producer and supplier of industrial and medical Rover Group.
He was previously a member of the European management board of Whirlpool Europe and was also chairman of its German operating company, and has previously held non-executive directorships in the UK for Wassall plc and Thorn Lighting Group.
He is currently chairman of the supervisory boards of Eckelmann AG and Bauknecht Hausgeraete GmbH.
Graham Roberts Gordon Sage Robert Walvis Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Age 50.
A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Age 62.
Appointed a Director on 1 January 2009. engineer, he is a non-executive director of BlackRock engineer, he was previously with the Royal Dutch Shell He is finance director of The British Land Company PLC, World Mining Trust plc.
Between 1970 and 2001 Group, latterly as chairman of the Global Corporate one of the UK's largest quoted property companies.
he held a series of increasingly senior positions in Centre of the Royal Dutch Shell Group of Companies.
Prior to joining British Land in 2002, he spent eight Rio Tinto plc, latterly as executive director responsible He is a non-executive director of Associated British years at Andersen, latterly as a partner specialising for its industrial minerals and diamonds businesses.
Ports Holdings Limited and Johnson Matthey plc, and in the real estate and government services sectors.
chairman of the supervisory board of Allianz Nederland Groep NV.
He is the senior independent Director.
54 Summary Directors report Dividends Honorary President Viscount Weir is Honorary President of the Company, having been appointed to this position in May 2003, following his retirement as Chairman.
The Directors recommend a final dividend on ordinary shares of 7.7p net per ordinary share making, with the interim dividend of 5.1p, a total dividend for Chairman 2008 of 12.8p net.
Preference dividends totalling 10.75p gross per preference Steve Marshall became Chairman in May 2008, having joined the Board in share have been paid for 2008.
Steve Marshall spends an average of two days per week The dividend reinvestment plan DRIP continues to be offered.
on the business of the Company.
He has other commitments as non-executive chairman of Delta plc and as a non-executive director of Southern Water.
Share capital and major shareholders The Board considers that these other commitments are not of such a nature as to hinder his activities as Chairman of the Company or Committees.
During the year to 31 December 2008 no ordinary shares were repurchased The Board for cancellation and 300,017 preference shares representing 0.27% of the The Board currently comprises 12 Directors, of whom seven, including the preference share capital were repurchased for cancellation for a total Chairman, are non-executive.
The Directors believe that the Board continues consideration of 407,337 at an average price of 135.8p.
Purchases of shares are to include an appropriate balance of skills and retains the ability to provide only made after careful consideration by the Directors, having taken into account effective leadership to the Group.
market conditions prevailing at the time, the investment needs of the Company Sir David John and Hans Christoph von Rohr retired from the Board on and its overall financial position.
1,286,053 ordinary shares were issued 15 May 2008 and 9 September 2008 respectively and Hubertus Krossa was following the exercise of options held under the Companys savings-related appointed as a non-executive Director on 9 September 2008.
Andrew share option scheme and 334,927 ordinary shares were issued following the McNaughton was appointed Chief Operating Officer and an executive Director exercise of options held under the Companys executive share option schemes.
Graham Roberts was appointed as a non-executive Director On 15 May 2008, a total of 43,320,411 new ordinary shares in the Company with effect from the same date.
Throughout 2008, the Chief Executive was were placed with institutions at a price of 430p per ordinary share raising 182m Ian Tyler and the Senior Independent Director was Robert Walvis.
This placing represented an increase of approximately but less The Board operates both formally, through Board and Board Committee than 10% of the issued ordinary share capital.
These placing shares were issued meetings, and informally through regular contact between Directors as required.
fully paid and ranked pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares.
Decisions on a list of specific matters, including the approval of financial At 31 December 2008, the Directors had authority, under the shareholders statements, major tenders and capital expenditure and most acquisitions and resolutions approved at the AGM and separate Class meeting held in May 2008, disposals, are reserved to the Board or Board Committees.
Matters falling to purchase through the market 43,314,839 ordinary shares and 16,775,968 outside the list are delegated to management.
The list of these reserved matters preference shares at prices set out in those resolutions.
This authority expires at is reviewed by the Board from time to time, most recently in October 2008. the conclusion of the separate Class meeting which will follow the 2009 AGM.
The terms of reference of the principal Board Committees and the reserved As at 4 March 2009, the Company had been notified in accordance with matters are displayed on the website: www.
com the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority of the following interests in its ordinary share capital: Number Percentage of ordinary of ordinary shares held shares held Standard Life Investments Limited 42,849,463 8.96% Lloyds Banking Group plc 33,370,340 6.98% Legal & General Group plc 32,807,704 6.86% Prudential plc 25,285,102 5.28% Schroder Investment Management Limited 22,057,637 4.61% Corporate governance and the Combined Code Overview Directors The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The UK Brief biographical details of the Directors, are given on page 53.
Listing Authority requires listed companies to disclose, in relation to Section 1 of Non-executive Directors are appointed for specific three-year terms and the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council which is appended it is part of the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, to review all to the UK Listing Rules, how they have applied its principles and whether they appointments of non-executive Directors at three-year intervals, or as near to have complied with its provisions through the accounting period.
The Company that as is practicable and make recommendations to the Board accordingly.
has complied with the requirements of the UK Listing Authority relating to the The Board considers that all the non-executive Directors continue to provisions of the Combined Code throughout the accounting period other than be independent.
in two respects: i Code provision C. 3.1 The chairman of the Audit Committee: following Rotation of Directors, election and re-election Steve Marshalls appointment as Chairman of the Company, the Board Steve Marshall, Ian Tyler and Peter Zinkin are due to retire by rotation as decided that he should continue as chairman of the Audit Committee Directors at the 2009 AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
temporarily pending the appointment of a successor.
Graham Roberts was Hubertus Krossa, Andrew McNaughton and Graham Roberts, who have been appointed non-executive Director on 1 January 2009 and he will assume appointed to the Board since the date of the last AGM, will offer themselves the chairmanship of the Audit Committee on 5 March 2009. for election in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
ii Code provision C. 3.4 Whistleblowing arrangements: the effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing procedures is kept under review by the Business Practices Committee BPC and not by the Audit Committee.
The principal reason for this is that the BPC, in particular, focuses on the Companys business conduct, its ethics and values and whistleblowing is an integral element within this overall remit.
In addition, from the Companys experience, whistleblowing-type complaints often relate to non-financial matters and, in particular, employment issues.
55 Evaluation individual tender and project review procedures commencing at operating Formal evaluation of the performance of the Board and of the principal Board company level and progressing to Board Committee level if value, or Committees, as well as individual assessments of the Directors, are normally perceived exposure, breaches certain thresholds: carried out by an external consultant tri-annually, with internal assessments regular reporting, monitoring and review of health, safety and carried out in the intervening two years.
The last external evaluation was environmental matters: completed in October 2007.
Following Steve Marshalls appointment as the review and authorisation of proposed investment, divestment and Chairman in May 2008, an internal evaluation process comprising an assessment questionnaire, commenced in January 2009.
As a result of the feedback, capital expenditure through the Boards Committees and the Board itself: the Board has concluded that both it and the Directors operate effectively.
the review of specific material areas of Group-wide risk and the formulation and monitoring of risk mitigating actions: Risk management The Board takes ultimate responsibility for the Groups systems of risk the formulation and review of properly documented policies and procedures, management and internal control and reviews their effectiveness.
As for updated through the free and regular flow of information to address the previous years, the Board has continued to assess the effectiveness of the risk changing risks of the business: management processes and internal controls during 2008 and to the date of specific policies set out in the Group Finance Manual, covering the financial this report.
Such assessment is based on reports made to the Board, the Audit management of the Group, including arrangements with the Groups bankers Committee and the Business Practices Committee, including: and bond providers, controls on foreign exchange dealings and management the results of internal audits reviews of internal financial controls: of currency and interest rate exposures, insurance, capital expenditure procedures, application of accounting policies and financial controls: a Group-wide certification that effective internal controls had been maintained, or, where any significant non-compliance or breakdown had a Group-wide risk management framework which is applied to all functions occurred with or without loss, the status of corrective action: and in the Group, whether operational, financial or support.
Under it, the key risks facing each part of the Group are regularly reviewed and assessed, together a paper prepared by management on the nature, extent and mitigation of with the steps taken to avoid or mitigate those risks.
The results of those significant risks and on the systems of internal controls.
reviews are placed on risk registers and, where necessary, specific action The Groups systems and controls are designed to ensure that the Groups plans are developed: exposure to significant risk is properly managed, but the Board recognises that reviews and tests by the internal audit team of critical business financial any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the processes and controls and spot checks in areas of perceived high business risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable risk: and and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In addition, not all the material joint ventures in which the Group is involved are treated, for the Groups whistleblowing policy.
these purposes, as part of the Group.
Where they are not, systems of internal Following an internal reorganisation at the end of 2008, the separate roles of control are applied as agreed between the parties to the venture.
Group Risk Management and Internal Audit were amalgamated under a Head Central to the Groups systems of internal control are its processes and of Group Risk Management and Assurance, who is responsible for developing framework for risk management.
These accord with the revised Turnbull a comprehensive framework of assurance including internal audit and Guidance on internal controls and were in place throughout the year and co-ordinating the risk management activities across the Group.
up to the date of signing this report.
No significant failings or weaknesses have been identified by the Board in The Groups systems of internal control operate through a number of different carrying out its review of the effectiveness of the risk management and internal processes, some of which are interlinked.
the annual review of the strategy and plans of each operating company and of the Group as a whole in order to identify, inter alia, the risks to the Groups Annual General Meeting achievement of its overall objectives and, where appropriate, any relevant mitigating actions: The business to be put to the AGM is set out in the separate circular to monthly financial reporting against budgets and the review of results and shareholders.
Steve Marshall and the other chairmen of the Board Committees forecasts by executive Directors and line management, including particular will be available at the AGM to answer any questions arising from their work.
areas of business or project risk.
This is used to update both managements The Board continues to regard the AGM as an important occasion on which to understanding of the environment in which the Group operates and the communicate with shareholders.
Shareholders may put questions in advance methods used to mitigate and control the risks identified: of the AGM by writing to the Company Secretary.
ANNUAL REVIEW 2008 Balfour Beatty plc 56 Summary remuneration report Long-term incentive scheme A resolution to approve the full Directors Remuneration report, which can be The RemCo believes that performance related long-term incentives which found on pages 18 to 25 of the Directors Report and accounts 2008, will be align executives with both business strategy and shareholders interests are proposed at the AGM of the Company to be held on 14 May 2009. an important component of overall executive remuneration arrangements.
The Company operates a Performance Share Plan the PSP under which Remuneration Committee conditional awards of shares in the Company are made to executive Directors and other selected operational and functional senior managers.
The maximum The Remuneration Committee RemCo is primarily responsible for determining market value of any award, at the award date, will be 150% of basic salary, the remuneration policy and conditions of service for executive Directors and the other than in exceptional circumstances, where the limit is 200% of basic salary.
It also reviews and monitors the level and structure It is currently the intention of the RemCo that an award of 150% of salary will of remuneration for certain senior managers immediately below the level of only be made to the Chief Executive, with the other executive Directors and the Board.
selected senior managers receiving conditional awards over shares with a The RemCo has been chaired by Robert Walvis since November 2003. market value of 125% of basic salary.
Its other members during the year were Stephen Howard, Steve Marshall, The awards will vest, subject to the achievement of performance conditions, Gordon Sage, Christoph von Rohr until September 2008 and, from September three years after the date of grant together with shares in lieu of dividends 2008, Hubertus Krossa.
Sir David John, the former Company Chairman, attended payable.
There is no provision for the re-testing of these performance conditions.
No member of the RemCo has conflicts of interest arising For the 2008 award, there are two performance conditions each applying to from cross-directorships and no member is involved in the day-to-day executive separate parts of the award.
50% of an award is linked to an adjusted earnings management of the Group.
per share EPS growth target, and the remaining 50% is linked to total shareholder return TSR performance relative to a comparator group.
Executive Directors remuneration The RemCo considers that the EPS and TSR performance conditions provide a good blend of performance metrics, with EPS growth rewarding strong financial General policy performance and TSR rewarding stock market performance, which aligns with It is the policy of the RemCo to establish an overall remuneration package that investors interests.
is competitive and which facilitates the recruitment and retention of high calibre It is the intention of the RemCo to make awards under the PSP in 2009. management.
The annual and long-term incentive plans make up an important For the TSR element of the award, it is currently anticipated that a similar part of each executive Directors remuneration and are structured so as to peer group of companies will be used.
The RemCo is currently reviewing the motivate senior managers to deliver high standards of performance, without EPS targets and individual levels of award, to ensure these continue to remain encouraging excessive risk taking.
It is intended that the share-based elements stretching and appropriate given current market conditions and business outlook.
of the package will not only drive performance over the long-term but will also assist in aligning the interests of senior management with those of shareholders.
Pensions The structure of executive Directors remuneration was similar in 2008 The executive Directors participate in the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund the to that in 2007 and no significant changes to the existing policy are currently Fund.
The Fund provides for a pension at a normal retirement age, for pension envisaged for 2009.
Under the current arrangements, if target performance purposes, of 62 and each Director pays an annual contribution equal to 5% of is achieved, basic salary will represent around one-half of total earnings.
The pension for a Director who can complete 20 or more If maximum is achieved, which would involve a superior level of performance years pensionable service at normal retirement age is targeted at two-thirds of substantially in excess of business plan, basic salary will represent around final pensionable salary, subject to HMRC limits.
With effect from 6 April 2006, one-third of total earnings.
HMRC limits were changed, with one of the changes being to no longer use the earnings cap, when determining the maximum permissible benefits.
Basic salaries However, a Fund-specific earnings cap has been retained for those members It is the policy of the RemCo to set basic salaries at levels which it believes are who were previously subject to the HMRC earnings cap.
A discretionary cash competitive given the size and complexity of the Company, as well as the broad supplement is paid in lieu of pension provision on earnings above the Fund business sectors in which it operates.
The RemCo sets basic salaries around specific cap.
mid-market levels, but also takes into account its own judgement of the performance of the Groups businesses and the performance of individual Share ownership guidelines Directors.
The RemCo intends to continue to use this approach in the To further align the interests of senior management with those of shareholders, foreseeable future.
executive Directors and certain other senior managers are subject to share ownership guidelines.
Executive Directors are required to accumulate a holding Annual incentive plan of ordinary shares in the Company to the value of 100% of their basic salary at Each executive Director participates in an annual incentive plan, under which a reference date.
In order to achieve this, they will be expected to retain at least pre-determined financial targets must be achieved before any payment is earned.
half of the shares after payment of any taxes due which vest from awards made The maximum potential bonus which could have been earned by executive under the PSP and the DBP.
Details of the shareholdings of all the Directors can Directors for 2008 was 80% of basic salary and the performance indicator be found in the table on page 58. chosen was profit before tax, exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets profit.
A bonus of 40% of basic salary would have been earned for Service contracts the achievement of performance in line with target.
Two-thirds of any bonus It remains the Companys policy and practice to include in executive Directors achieved is payable in cash, whilst the remaining one-third is deferred in the form contracts a 12 months rolling notice period from the Company and six months of ordinary shares in the Company under the Deferred Bonus Plan the DBP.
notice on the part of the Director.
These shares, along with shares awarded in lieu of dividends paid during the Service contracts of executive Directors do not include provision for specific deferral period, will be released to the Directors after three years, providing they payment in the event of early termination, nor do they provide for extended notice are still employed by the Company at that time unless specified leaver conditions periods or compensation in the event of a change of control.
The RemCo would are met, in which case early vesting may be permitted under the rules of the seek to ensure that the Director fulfils his obligation to mitigate his losses and DBP.
would also give consideration to phased payments where appropriate.
It is currently intended that the annual incentive plan for 2009 will operate in the same way and at the same level as for 2008 and the RemCo will continue to review the competitiveness and structure of the annual incentive plan in future years.
Our governance ANNUAL REVIEW 2008 Balfour Beatty plc 57 Non-executive Directors Performance graph Non-executive Directors are appointed by the full Board following The graph below shows Balfour Beattys TSR performance compared to the recommendations from the Nomination Committee.
The Chairmans remuneration FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts TSR over the five financial years falls within the remit of the RemCo operating within the broad policy ended 31 December 2008. recommended by the RemCo and approved by the Board.
The Board determines As in previous reports, the RemCo has elected to compare the TSR on the the terms on which the services of other non-executive Directors are provided.
Companys ordinary shares against the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment All non-executive Directors are elected for a term of three years and must retire trusts principally because this is a broad index of which the Company was a and, if eligible, seek re-election at the AGM in the third calendar year following constituent member during the year.
the year in which they were elected or last re-elected.
They are not eligible to The values indicated in the graph show the share price growth plus join any pension scheme operated by the Company and cannot participate in any reinvested dividends from a 100 hypothetical holding of ordinary shares in of the Companys share option, annual incentive or long-term incentive schemes.
Balfour Beatty plc and in the index at the start of the period and have been None of the appointment letters for non-executive Directors contain provision for calculated using 30 trading day average values.
specific payment in the event of termination for whatever cause.
The fees of the non-executive Directors are reviewed from time to time with the last review having taken effect from 1 July 2008.
ii Ian Tyler, Anthony Rabin and Duncan Magrath received taxable cash supplements in lieu of pension provision on their salary above the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund specific earnings cap.
iii The performance target for annual bonus was profit before tax, exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets profit.
The profit for the year ended 31 December 2008 resulted in a maximum bonus of 80% of basic salary for each executive Director.
Two-thirds of this bonus is payable in cash and these are the amounts shown in the table above.
The remaining one-third is deferred in the form of ordinary shares in the Company which will be released to the Director on 31 March 2012, providing he is still employed by the Company at that time.
The number of shares comprising the deferred element will be determined based on the share price at the award date of 31 March 2009. iv Awards made under the Performance Share Plan in 2005 to Ian Tyler, Anthony Rabin, and Peter Zinkin vested during the year.
At the date of vesting on 18 April 2008 the closing market price was 463p and the total values of the shares which vested were 546,354, 378,720, and 403,555 respectively.
v Ian Tyler, Anthony Rabin, and Peter Zinkin exercised savings-related share options during the year.
The closing market prices on the dates of exercise ranged between 411.25p and 400.0p and the values realisable on exercise were 4,184, 1,826, and 3,450 respectively.
Directors interests The interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the ordinary share capital of Balfour Beatty plc and its subsidiary undertakings during the year are set out below.
59 For the year ended 31 December 2008 Summary Group income statement 2008 2007 Before Exceptional Before Exceptional exceptional items exceptional items # # items Note 3 Total items Note 3 Total m m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 9,486 9,486 7,488 7,488 Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates 1,225 1,225 1,022 1,022 Group revenue 8,261 8,261 6,466 6,466 Cost of sales 7,628 7,628 5,959 33 5,992 Gross profit 633 633 507 33 474 Net operating expenses amortisation of intangible assets 27 27 9 9 other 478 51 427 394 6 400 Group operating profit 155 24 179 113 48 65 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 75 3 72 65 6 71 Profit from operations 230 21 251 178 42 136 Investment income 43 43 42 42 Finance costs 24 24 19 2 21 Profit before taxation 249 21 270 201 44 157 Taxation 66 8 74 53 65 12 Profit for the year from continuing operations 183 13 196 148 21 169 Loss for the year from discontinued operations 2 20 18 Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 183 13 196 150 1 151 and amortisation of intangible assets.
2008 2007 Notes pence pence Basic earnings per ordinary share continuing operations 4 42.9 39.3 discontinued operations 4 4.2 42.9 35.1 Diluted earnings per ordinary share continuing operations 42.7 39.0 discontinued operations 4.2 42.7 34.8 Dividends per ordinary share proposed for the year 12.8 11.5 For the year ended 31 December 2008 Summary Group statement of recognised income and expense 2008 2007 m m Actuarial losses gains on retirement benefit obligations 76 2 Cash flow hedges fair value revaluations 1 PPP cash flow hedges fair value revaluations 107 7 reclassified and reported in net profit 7 PPP financial assets fair value revaluations 102 26 reclassified and reported in net profit 3 Changes in fair value of net investment hedges 105 4 Currency translation differences 217 7 Tax on items taken directly to equity 25 5 Net income expense recognised directly in equity 55 19 Profit for the year from continuing operations 196 169 Loss for the year from discontinued operations 18 Total recognised income for the year attributable to equity shareholders 251 132 ANNUAL REVIEW 2008 Balfour Beatty plc 60 At 31 December 2008 Summary Group balance sheet 2008 2007 m m Non-current assets Intangible assets goodwill 975 694 other 223 59 Property, plant and equipment 296 215 Investments in joint ventures and associates 469 381 Investments 55 57 PPP financial assets 151 62 Deferred tax assets 132 125 Derivative financial instruments 3 3 Trade and other receivables 74 77 2,378 1,673 Current assets Inventories 125 72 Due from customers for contract work 383 338 Derivative financial instruments 2 1 Trade and other receivables 1,193 881 Cash and cash equivalents PPP subsidiaries 2 3 other 461 391 2,166 1,686 Total assets 4,544 3,359 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 2,168 1,718 Due to customers for contract work 540 415 Derivative financial instruments 66 6 Current tax liabilities 23 7 Borrowings PPP non-recourse loans 3 other 12 16 2,809 2,165 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 152 135 Derivative financial instruments 40 6 Borrowings PPP non-recourse loans 145 61 other 9 1 Deferred tax liabilities 10 7 Liability component of preference shares 87 87 Retirement benefit obligations 261 286 Provisions 166 128 870 711 Total liabilities 3,679 2,876 Net assets 865 483 Equity Called-up share capital 239 216 Share premium account 54 52 Equity component of preference shares 16 16 Special reserve 139 164 Share of joint ventures and associates reserves 230 178 Other reserves 79 9 Retained profits accumulated losses 104 152 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 861 483 Minority interests 4 Total equity 865 483 The summary financial statement, extracted from the Directors report and accounts 2008, has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Duncan Magrath Director 4 March 2009 61 For the year ended 31 December 2008 Summary Group cash flow statement 2008 2007 m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 297 277 Income taxes paid 18 24 Net cash from operating activities 279 253 Cash flows from investing activities Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 53 83 Interest received 27 26 Acquisition of businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired 302 198 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 93 80 Purchase of investments 11 Investment in and loans made to joint ventures and associates 9 50 Investment in PPP financial assets 81 39 Settlement of financial derivatives 48 4 Disposal of businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents disposed 92 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 17 9 Disposal of investments 2 Net cash used in investing activities 434 164 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 186 5 Purchase of ordinary shares 13 4 Proceeds from new loans 81 42 Repayment of loans 18 1 Repayment of finance leases 2 Buy-back of preference shares 8 Ordinary dividends paid 54 42 Interest paid 12 7 Preference dividends paid 11 11 Net cash from used in financing activities 157 26 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 2 63 Effects of exchange rate changes 72 8 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 379 308 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 453 379 ANNUAL REVIEW 2008 Balfour Beatty plc 62 Notes to the summary financial statement 1 Basis of preparation The summary financial statement has been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union.
The Groups accounting policies are set out in the Directors report and accounts 2008.
In order to better reflect the operating performance of the Group, certain pension related income and costs have been reclassified within the income statement in the current year as permitted by IAS 19.
The net amount of the interest cost for the unwind of the pension obligations and the expected return on scheme assets has been reclassified out of net operating expenses to investment income.
2007 comparative amounts have been re-presented to reflect this change.
2 Segment analysis continuing operations Building, Civil and building specialist Rail management engineering engineering Corporate and services and services and services Investments costs Total 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 m m m m m m Performance by activity: Results Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 4,635 3,243 1,055 553 9,486 Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates 137 656 39 393 1,225 Group revenue 4,498 2,587 1,016 160 8,261 Group operating profit 84 85 39 19 34 155 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 4 19 2 50 75 Profit from operations before exceptional items and amortisation 88 104 41 31 34 230 Exceptional items 1 5 5 59 48 Amortisation of intangible assets 14 3 1 9 27 Profit from operations 73 96 40 17 25 251 North Europe America Other Total 2008 2008 2008 2008 m m m m Performance by geographic origin: Group revenue 5,981 2,216 64 8,261 Profit from operations before exceptional items and amortisation 147 59 24 230 Exceptional items 51 3 48 Amortisation of intangible assets 10 17 27 Profit from operations 188 39 24 251 Building, Civil and building specialist Rail management engineering engineering Corporate and services and services and services Investments costs Total # # # # # # 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 m m m m m m Performance by activity: Results Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 3,640 2,668 785 394 1 7,488 Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates 113 556 10 343 1,022 3,527 2,112 775 51 1 6,466 Group revenue Group operating profit 70 59 39 25 30 113 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 23 1 41 65 Profit from operations before exceptional items and amortisation 70 82 40 16 30 178 Exceptional items 26 9 2 33 Amortisation of intangible assets 6 3 9 Profit from operations 38 70 42 16 30 136 63 2 Segment analysis continuing operations continued North Europe America Other Total # # # # 2007 2007 2007 2007 m m m m Performance by geographic origin: Group revenue 4,958 1,471 37 6,466 Profit from operations before exceptional items and amortisation 132 18 28 178 Exceptional items 27 6 33 Amortisation of intangible assets 4 5 9 Profit from operations 101 7 28 136 Other principally comprises the Groups operations in Dubai and Hong Kong.
3 Exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets 2008 2007 m m Credited to charged against profit before taxation Reduction in pension past service liabilities 60 Metronet net contract losses 27 Post-acquisition integration, reorganisation and other costs 6 6 Adjustment to Birse Group goodwill 3 Tax adjustments on share of joint ventures and associates 3 Premium on buy-back of preference shares 2 48 35 Charged against credited to taxation Tax on items above 15 11 Tax credit on recognition of Birse Group losses 3 Industrial buildings allowances 3 Recognition of US deferred tax assets 51 27 Credited to profit from continuing operations 33 Credited to charged against profit from discontinued operations Profit on sale of operations 57 Metronet impairment of investment 87 tax thereon 10 Exceptional items credited to profit for the year 33 7 Amortisation of intangible assets 27 9 Tax thereon 7 3 Credited to profit for the year 13 1 4 Earnings per ordinary share Earnings EPS Earnings EPS Basic Basic Basic Basic 2008 2008 2007 2007 m pence m pence 169 39.3 Continuing operations 196 42.9 18 4.2 Discontinued operations 196 42.9 151 35.1 Exceptional items 33 7.2 7 1.6 Amortisation of intangible assets 20 4.2 61.5 150 35.0 Adjusted earnings earnings per ordinary share 183 39.9 The weighted average number of ordinary shares used to calculate basic earnings per share was 457.6m 2007: 430.0m.
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share, before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets, and including the pre-exceptional results of discontinued operations in 2007, has been disclosed to give a clearer understanding of the Groups underlying trading performance.
5 Post balance sheet events On 23 February 2009 the Group acquired Dooley Construction Limited Partnership, a leading North Carolina USA firm in the interiors construction market, for a cash consideration of $40m.
ANNUAL REVIEW 2008 Balfour Beatty plc 64 Independent auditors statement to the members of Balfour Beatty plc We have examined the Groups summary financial statement for the year ended Basis of opinion 31 December 2008 which comprises the summary Group income statement, the summary Group balance sheet, the summary Group cash flow statement, We conducted our work in accordance with bulletin 1999 6 The Auditors Statement on the Summary Financial Statement issued by the Auditing the summary Group statement of recognised income and expense, the notes to the summary financial statement, the summary Directors report and the Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Our report on the Groups and Company's full annual financial statements describes the basis of our audit summary Directors remuneration report.
This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in opinion on those financial statements and the Directors' remuneration report.
accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters Opinion we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility In our opinion, the summary financial statement is consistent with the full to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, annual accounts, the Directors report and the Directors remuneration report for our audit work, for this report, for our audit report, or for the opinions we of Balfour Beatty plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 and complies with have formed.
the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Deloitte LLP The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual review 2008, including Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the summary financial statement, in accordance with United Kingdom law.
London, United Kingdom Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the 4 March 2009 summary financial statement within the Annual review 2008, with the full annual accounts, the Directors report and the Directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual review 2008 as described in the contents section, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Summary reports The Annual review 2008 includes a summary of information contained in the Directors report and accounts 2008.
The aim is to provide shareholders with information in a clear and concise manner.
For this reason, the Annual review 2008 does not contain all the information to allow for a full understanding of the results of the Company and the Group and their state of affairs.
For further Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar.
com information, the full Annual report and accounts 2008, comprising the Annual Printed in England by CTD review 2008 and the Directors report and accounts 2008 containing the This report is printed on Take 2 Silk which is FSC-certified and contains 75% recycled and fide-inked pulp Financial review, the Directors report, the Directors remuneration report, the from post consumer waste and 25% ECF Elemental Chlorine Free virgin pulp.
This report was printed financial statements and the independent auditors report, which is unqualified, by an FSCand ISO 14001-certified printer using vegetable oil and soya-based inks.
A copy of the Directors report and accounts 2008 may be FSC Forest Stewardship Council.
This ensures that there is an audited chain of custody from the tree obtained, free of charge, by writing to Capita Registrars at the address on the in the well-managed forest through to the finished document in the printing factory.
Shareholders contacting the Registrars should quote their full ISO 14001 A pattern of control for an environmental management system against which an name and address in correspondence.
The Directors report and accounts 2008 organisation can be credited by a third party.
is also available on the Groups website at www.
com 65 Shareholder information Financial calendar Balfour Beatty actively supports Climate Care, a not-for-profit organisation that funds global sustainable energy and forest restoration projects that reduce 2009 greenhouse gases.
Climate Cares projects also help to improve peoples standard 22 April Ex-dividend date for final 2008 ordinary dividend of living and to protect wildlife habitats.
For more information on Climate Care, 24 April Final 2008 ordinary dividend record date visit www.
org In support of the Climate Care programme, Balfour Beatty will donate 14 May Annual General Meeting 1 to Climate Care for every shareholder that registers to receive shareholder 27 May Ex-dividend date for July 2009 preference dividend communications electronically.
29 May July 2009 preference dividend record date 10 June Final date for receipt of DRIP mandate forms see below Gifting shares to your family or to charity 1 July Preference dividend payable To transfer shares to another member of your family as a gift, please ask the 6 July Final 2008 ordinary dividend payable Registrars for a Balfour Beatty gift transfer form.
Alternatively, if you only have 12 August Announcement of 2009 half-year results a small number of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them, you may wish to consider donating them to the share donation charity ShareGift 10 December Interim 2009 ordinary dividend payable registered charity no.
Any shares that you donate to ShareGift will be aggregated, sold when possible, and the proceeds will be donated to a wide range of other UK charities.
Registrars Since ShareGift was launched, over 13m has been given to more than 1,500 charities.
The relevant share transfer form may be accessed at All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings and requests to receive www.
For more information on ShareGift, corporate documents by email should be directed to the Companys Registrars visit www.
org and clearly state the shareholders registered address and, if available, the full shareholder reference number.
Please write to: Share dealing services Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, Telephone: 0871 664 0300 from the UK calls cost 10p per minute Capita IRG Trustees Limited provide a telephone and online share dealing service for plus network extras and 44 20 8639 3399 from outside the UK Monday UK and EEA resident shareholders.
com They can help you to: The Company has also established an execution-only postal share dealing check your shareholding: service through JPMorgan Cazenove Limited for private investors who wish to buy register a change of address or name: or sell Balfour Beatty plcs shares.
Further details can be obtained from The Balfour obtain a replacement dividend cheque or tax voucher: Beatty Share Dealing Service, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited, 20 Moorgate, London record the death of a shareholder: EC2R 6DA, Telephone: 020 7155 5155. amalgamate multiple accounts: An execution-only share dealing service for the purchase and sale of resolve any other question about your shareholding.
Balfour Beatty shares is also available from NatWest Stockbrokers.
For details, please contact: NatWest Stockbrokers, Waterhouse Square, 138-142 Holborn, Dividends and dividend reinvestment plan London EC1N 2TH, Telephone: 0808 208 4433.
Capita IRG Trustees Limited, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited and NatWest If you wish dividends to be paid directly into your bank or building society account, Stockbrokers are each authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
through the Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS, you should contact the Registrars for a dividend mandate form.
Share price Balfour Beatty has a dividend reinvestment plan DRIP which allows ordinary shareholders to reinvest their cash dividends in the Companys shares bought in the The Balfour Beatty share price can be found at the Balfour Beatty website at market through a specially arranged share dealing service.
com and in the appropriate sections of national newspapers and its charges, together with mandate forms, can be accessed at under the classification Construction and Building Materials.
com on a number of personal finance websites on the Internet and from television text services.
Shareholder information on the internet and electronic communications The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List SEDOL codes are: Ordinary shares: 0096162.
com offers shareholders and Preference shares: 0097820. prospective investors a range of information about the Company, its people and businesses and its policies on corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
The London Stock Exchange ticker codes are: It should be regarded as your first point of reference for information on any of Ordinary shares: BBY.
In conjunction with Capita Registrars, you can create a Share Portal account, through which you are able to access the full range of online shareholder services, Capital gains tax including the ability to: For capital gains tax purposes the market value on 31 March 1982 of Balfour Beatty view your holdings and indicative share price and valuation: plcs ordinary shares of 50p each was 307.3p per share.
This has been adjusted for view movements on your holdings and your dividend payment history: the 1-for-5 rights issue in June 1992 and the 2-for-11 rights issue in September 1996. register a dividend mandate to have your dividends paid directly into your bank account: Enquiries change your registered address: sign-up to receive e-communications or access the online proxy voting facility: Enquiries relating to Balfour Beattys results, business and financial position should download and print shareholder forms.
co. uk Balfour Beatty plc Registered Office: 130 Wilton Road, London SW1V 1LQ Registered in England Number 395826 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review 2008 213326 BALFOUR REV COVER CTD:213326 BALFOUR REV COVER CTD 30 3 09 17:48 Page 1 Our business Print or online?
