CAPITAL SHOPPING CENTRES PLC NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 1.
Principal accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments The group enters into derivative transactions such as interest rate swaps in order to manage the risks arising from its activities.
Derivatives are recorded at fair value based on estimated future cash flows.
The group does not apply hedge accounting to its interest rate swaps.
Any change in the fair value of such derivatives is recognised immediately in the income statement as a finance cost.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised at fair value, and subsequently reviewed for impairment.
The directors exercise judgement as to the collectability of its trade receivables and determines when it is appropriate to impair these assets.
Factors such as days past due, credit status of the counterparty and historical evidence of collection are considered.
Trade payables Trade payables are recognised subsequently measured at fair value until settled.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at their net proceeds on issue and subsequently carried at amortised cost.
Any transaction costs and premiums or discounts are recognised over the contractual life using the effective interest method.
In the event of early termination, all unamortised transaction costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Compound instruments At the date of issue of compound instruments, the fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-compound debt.
The difference between the proceeds of issue and the fair value of the liability is included in equity.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components based on their relative initial carrying values.
The liability element of compound instruments is subsequently measured using the expected interest rate method.
The value of the equity component is not re-measured in subsequent periods.
Restatement of the prior year comparatives Derivative financial instruments are classified as held for trading per IAS 39 Financial Instruments: recognition and measurement, and presented as current in the balance sheet in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
The prior year balances have been restated to provide appropriate comparison.
There is no impact on the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2007 as a result of this reclassification.
Derivative current assets are shown separately on the face of the balance sheet whereas previously they were aggregated within trade and other receivables.
Additionally, tax liabilities which were previously disclosed on the face of the balance sheet are now aggregated within trade and other receivables.
In the prior year, amounts paid in relation to REIT entry charges were included within the change in trade and other payables.
An amount of 13.7m has been reclassified to REIT entry charge paid to provide appropriate comparison.
24 CAPITAL SHOPPING CENTRES PLC NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 1.
Principal accounting policies continued Restatement of the prior year comparatives continued Investments in group undertakings for the year ended 31 December 2007 included 78.3 million relating to CSC Eldon Square Limited.
This was in fact disposed during the year, investments in group undertakings have therefore been restated to correctly reflect this.
As the consideration received on sale remained unpaid at 31 December 2007 this has resulted in an increase in trade and other receivables of 79.9m.
Profit arising on the sale of 1.6m has been taken to retained earnings in the balance sheet and profit on sale of subsidiary and adjusted profit before tax in the cashflow statement.
In the cashflow statement for 31 December 2007, a loss on termination of a financial instrument of 1.3m was misreported as a loss on sale of subsidiary.
The comparatives have therefore been restated to adjust this loss against profit before tax.
Additionally in the cashflow statement for 31 December 2007, interest paid of 3.6m was omitted as an adjustment to profit before tax and misreported as a change in trade and other payables.
This has been adjusted to provide appropriate comparison.
The prior year cash flows have been restated to reallocate the net proceeds received from the sale of partial interest in the MetroCentre Partnership.
This has resulted in restatement for the year to 31 December 2007 of 192.0 million from sale of property to sale of partial interest in property.
There is no impact on the balance sheet or income statement for the year ended 31 December 2007 as a result of this reclassification.
Sale of partial interest in property is shown separately on the face of the cash flow statement whereas previously this had been included within sale of property.
In 2007 equity dividends paid by the company to its immediate parent were reported net of dividends received from subsidiary undertakings.
As a result equity dividends paid as disclosed in the analysis of retained earnings for the company were understated by 50.7m with the companys profit for the year as disclosed in the reconciliation of retained earnings also understated by 50.7m.
The impact on the individual lines is as follows: Company 2007 m Balance sheet Decrease in investment in group companies 78.3 Increase in current trade and other receivables 79.9 Increase in retained earnings 1.6 Cash flow statement Loss profit before tax 53.7 Profit on sale of subsidiaries 2.9 Interest payable 3.6 Change in movement in trade and other payables 54.4 25
