CAPITAL SHOPPING CENTRES PLC NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 1.
Principal accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments The group enters into derivative transactions such as interest rate swaps in order to manage the risks arising from its activities.
Derivatives are recorded at fair value based on estimated future cash flows.
The group does not apply hedge accounting to its interest rate swaps.
Any change in the fair value of such derivatives is recognised immediately in the income statement as a finance cost.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised at fair value, and subsequently reviewed for impairment.
The directors exercise judgement as to the collectability of its trade receivables and determines when it is appropriate to impair these assets.
Factors such as days past due, credit status of the counterparty and historical evidence of collection are considered.
Trade payables Trade payables are recognised subsequently measured at fair value until settled.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at their net proceeds on issue and subsequently carried at amortised cost.
Any transaction costs and premiums or discounts are recognised over the contractual life using the effective interest method.
In the event of early termination, all unamortised transaction costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Compound instruments At the date of issue of compound instruments, the fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-compound debt.
The difference between the proceeds of issue and the fair value of the liability is included in equity.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components based on their relative initial carrying values.
The liability element of compound instruments is subsequently measured using the expected interest rate method.
The value of the equity component is not re-measured in subsequent periods.
Restatement of the prior year comparatives Derivative financial instruments are classified as held for trading per IAS 39 Financial Instruments: recognition and measurement, and presented as current in the balance sheet in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
The prior year balances have been restated to provide appropriate comparison.
There is no impact on the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2007 as a result of this reclassification.
Derivative current assets are shown separately on the face of the balance sheet whereas previously they were aggregated within trade and other receivables.
Additionally, tax liabilities which were previously disclosed on the face of the balance sheet are now aggregated within trade and other receivables.
In the prior year, amounts paid in relation to REIT entry charges were included within the change in trade and other payables.
An amount of 13.7m has been reclassified to REIT entry charge paid to provide appropriate comparison.
