CAPITAL SHOPPING CENTRES PLC NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 1.
Principal accounting policies Accounting convention and basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the European Union IFRS, IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The directors have taken advantage of the exemption offered by Section 230 of the Companies Act not to present a separate income statement for the parent company.
The groups business activities have been affected by the markedly more adverse UK financial and economic background.
A description of the impact and the factors likely to affect the groups future development, performance and position are set out in the Review of Business and Future Developments on pages 1 to 8.
The financial position of the group, its cash flows, debt structure, borrowing facilities and principal financial risks are described in the Review of Business and Future Developments on pages 1 to 8.
In addition note 19 to these financial statements includes the groups financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: its exposures to liquidity risk and details of its capital structure.
The groups development and future performance is likely to be affected by the increased risk of potential breaches of a number of the groups subsidiaries nonrecourse bank loans, if there are further reductions in commercial property valuations and net rental income.
This may, in turn, increase the risk that certain group and related companies may request settlement of balances due to them.
In order to mitigate this risk the group has initiated discussions with non-recourse lenders where the group considers the arrangements are particularly sensitive to falls in property valuations or reduction in net rental income.
In addition, the directors have considered the level of financial support that may be made available to the company by the ultimate controlling entity, Liberty International PLC.
As a consequence of these actions, the directors believe the company and the group are able to manage the business risks they face despite the difficult conditions in the UK commercial property market.
The directors have therefore concluded, based on cash flow projections taking account of the factors listed above, that there is a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and have therefore prepared the financial statements on a going concern basis.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of properties, available for sale investments, financial assets and liabilities held for trading.
A summary of the more important group accounting policies is set out below, together with an explanation of where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards in the year.
19 CAPITAL SHOPPING CENTRES PLC NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 1.
Principal accounting policies continued Accounting convention and basis of preparation continued The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Where such judgements are made they are included within the accounting policies below.
Standards and guidelines relevant to the group that were in issue at the date of approval of the financial statements but not yet effective for the current accounting period were: IFRS 3 amendment, Business Combinations, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRS 8, Operating Segments, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IAS 27 amendment, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IAS 39 amendment, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1January 2009.
These pronouncements, when applied, are not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements, but will result in changes to presentation or disclosure.
The assessment of new standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective, not included above are not anticipated to have a material impact on the financial statements.
During 2008, the following accounting standards and guidance were adopted by the group: IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of Financial Statements, effective for annual periods beginning on 1 January 2009, but adopted early.
IAS 16 amendment Property, Plant and Equipment, and IAS 40 amendment Investment Property effective for annual periods beginning on 1 January 2009, but adopted early.
These pronouncements either had no impact on the financial statements or resulted in changes to presentation and disclosure only.
These accounts include the consolidation of The MetroCentre Partnership, The Victoria Centre Partnership, The Chapelfield Partnership, The Potteries Shopping Centre Limited Partnership, The Westgate Partnership, Xscape Braehead Partnership and St. Davids Limited Partnership.
The members of these qualifying partnerships have taken advantage of the exemptions in the Statutory Instrument 1993 1820.
