CAPITAL SHOPPING CENTRES PLC NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 12.
Investments in group undertakings Company m At 31 December 2007 1,141.3 Prior year adjustment 78.3 At 31 December 2007 restated 1,063.0 Impairment charge for the year 326.2 At 31 December 2008 736.8 Investments are reviewed at least annually for impairment.
Where there exists an indication of impairment an assessment of the recoverable amount is performed.
The recoverable amount is based on the higher of the investments continued value in use or its fair value less cost to sell.
The impairment charge taken above arose due to the carrying value of the asset exceeding its recoverable amount.
This was determined based on the assets fair value less cost to sell.
Fair value less costs to sell is derived from the subsidiaries net asset value at the balance sheet date.
The principal investments in group undertakings are listed below.
All subsidiaries are wholly owned by the company and are registered in England and Wales.
Investments in group undertakings are carried in the balance sheet at historic cost less provision for impairment.
i Companies engaged in property investment, management and development: Braehead Park Investments Limited property Ordinary shares of 1 each Braehead Park Estates Limited property Ordinary shares of 1 each Chapelfield LP Limited property Ordinary shares of 1 each CSC Harlequin Limited property Ordinary shares of 1 each CSC Lakeside Limited property Ordinary shares of 1 each CSC Enterprises Limited commercial promotion Ordinary shares of 1 each CSC MetroCentre Limited property Ordinary shares of 1 each CSC Properties Investments Limited property Ordinary shares of 1 each CSC Bromley Limited property Ordinary shares of 1 each CSC Potteries Limited property Ordinary shares of 1 each CSC The Hayes Limited Ordinary shares of 1 each MetroCentre GP Limited acting as General Partner of The MetroCentre Partnership Ordinary shares of 1 each CSC Properties Limited Ordinary shares of 1 each By virtue of their interest in The MetroCentre Partnership, GIC Real Estate is entitled to appoint 40 per cent of the directors of MetroCentre GP Limited.
ii Companies engaged in the provision of management services: Broadway Retail Leisure Limited Ordinary shares of 1 each CSC Enterprises Limited Ordinary shares of 1 each CSC Property Management Limited Ordinary shares of 1 each iii The company disposed of its investment in CSC Eldon Square Limited in November 2007 to Capital & Counties Debenture PLC, a fellow subsidiary undertaking of Liberty International PLC, for 79.9 million, realising a surplus of 1.6 million.
