CAPITAL SHOPPING CENTRES PLC DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial position of the company and the group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
So far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and each director has taken all reasonable steps to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Responsibility statement We confirm to the best of our knowledge: a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and b the Review of Business and Future Developments, the Key risks and uncertainties and the Directors report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Signed on behalf of the Board on 13 May 2009 K E Chaldecott L Woodhouse Director Director 12
