CAPITAL SHOPPING CENTRES PLC NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 1.
Principal accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial information includes financial information in respect of the company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiary undertakings are those entities in which the group has the ability to govern the financial and operating policies, whether through a majority of the voting rights or otherwise.
The groups interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted for using proportional consolidation.
The groups share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses are combined with the equivalent items in the consolidated financial statements on a lineby-line basis.
Investment and development property Investment and development properties are owned or leased by the group and held for long-term rental income and capital appreciation.
The group has elected to use the fair value model.
Properties are initially recognised at cost and subsequently revalued at the balance sheet date to fair value as determined by professionally qualified external valuers on the basis of market value.
The valuation is based upon assumptions including future rental growth, anticipated maintenance costs, development costs and an appropriate discount rate.
Valuers generally make reference to market evidence of transactions of similar properties.
Property held under leases is stated gross of the recognised finance lease liability.
The cost of development properties includes interest and other directly attributable outgoings, except in the case of properties and land where no development is imminent, in which case no interest is included.
When the group redevelops an existing investment property for continued future use as an investment property, the property remains an investment property measured at fair value and is not reclassified.
Interest is capitalised before tax relief, on the basis of the average rate of interest paid on the relevant debt outstanding, until the date of practical completion.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment property are recognised in the income statement of the period in which they arise.
Depreciation is not provided in respect of investment properties including integral plant.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of development property are dealt with in reserves to the extent that fair value exceeds cost and are otherwise recognised in the income statement.
Upon completion, development property to be held for long-term rental income and capital appreciation is transferred to investment property.
