55 CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.17 Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are transferred to be held in treasury, cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such treasury shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
3 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 3.1 Significant accounting policies Details of significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in Note 2.9 to the financial statements.
3.2 Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that the Group will be able to continue as going concern while maximizing the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of debt and equity balances.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in Note 27, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings.
Management perform stress tests of the business model to ensure that objectives are continually met.
The objectives have been met in the year.
Gearing ratio The Groups Directors review the capital structure on at least a quarterly basis to ensure that key strategic goals are being achieved.
As part of this review they consider the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
The gearing ratio at the year end is as follows: 2008 2007 000 000 Debt 605,192 803,717 Cash and cash equivalents 195,296 122,030 Net debt 409,896 681,687 Equity 338,585 403,092 Net debt to equity ratio 121% 169% Debt is defined as long and short term borrowings excluding unamortised issue costs as detailed in Note 27.
Equity includes all capital and reserves of the Group attributable to equity holders of the parent.
Externally imposed capital requirement The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements except to the extent that debt covenants may require group companies to maintain ratios such as debt to equity or similar at certain levels.
