48 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 31 December 2008 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.3 Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication of impairment.
If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of the goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the units pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
2.4 Segment information A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
2.5 Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the individual financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Companys functional currency and presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
b Transactions and balances In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Changes in the fair value of monetary securities denominated in foreign currency classified as available-for-sale are analysed between translation differences resulting from changes in the amortised cost of the security and other changes in the carrying amount of the security.
Translation differences related to changes in the amortised cost are recognised in profit or loss, and other changes in the carrying amount are recognised in equity.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and liabilities are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and liabilities such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss are recognised in profit or loss as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets such as equities classified as available-for-sale are included in the fair value reserve in equity.
c Consolidation The results and financial position of all the Group entities none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency of the Group are translated into the presentation currency as follows: i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet: ii income and expenses for each income statement are translated at the average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions : and iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity cumulative translation adjustment.
