52 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 31 December 2008 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.9 Financial instruments continued Derecognition of financial liabilities The Group derecognises financial liabilities when the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivatives including swaps and interest rate caps to help manage its interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk.
Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: i fair value hedges: ii cash flow hedges: or iii hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Hedge accounting Where a financial instrument is designated as a hedge, the Group formally documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item as well as its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking the various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in the hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting the changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged items.
a Fair value hedge accounting Changes in fair value of derivatives that qualify and are designated as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
b Cash flow hedge accounting For qualifying cash flow hedges, the fair value gain or loss associated with the effective portion of the cash flow hedge is recognised initially directly in shareholders equity, and recycled to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit and loss.
Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the income statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
c Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised directly in equity: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are recognised in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
d Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
2.10 Non current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
The condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to a plan to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
A discontinued operation is a component of an entity that either has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale, and: represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
