49 CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.5 Foreign currency translation continued c Consolidation continued On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to the cumulative translation reserve.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
2.6 Investment property Property that is held for long-term rental yields or for capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by the companies in the consolidated Group, is classified as investment property.
Investment property comprises freehold land, freehold buildings, land held under operating leases and buildings held under finance leases.
Land held under operating leases is classified and accounted for as investment property when the definition of investment property is met and the operating lease is accounted for as if it were a finance lease.
Investment property is measured initially at its cost, including related transaction costs.
After initial recognition, investment property is carried at fair value.
Fair value is based on active market prices, adjusted, if necessary, for any difference in the nature, location or condition of the specified asset.
If this information is not available, the Group uses alternate valuation methods such as recent prices on less active markets or discounted cash flow projections.
These valuations are performed by external valuers in accordance with the guidance issued by the International Valuation Standards Committee.
Investment property that is being redeveloped for continuing use as investment property, or for which the market has become less active, continues to be classified as investment property and measured at fair value.
The fair value of investment property reflects, among other things, rental income from current leases and assumptions about rental income from future leases in the light of current market conditions.
The fair value also reflects, on a similar basis, any cash outflows that could be expected in respect of the property.
Some of those outflows are recognised as a liability, including finance lease liabilities in respect of land classified as investment property: others, including contingent rent payments, are not recognised in the financial statements.
Subsequent expenditure is added to the assets carrying amount only when it is probable that future economic benefit associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Changes in fair values are recorded in the income statement.
If an investment property becomes owner-occupied, it is reclassified as property, plant and equipment, and its fair value at the date of reclassification becomes its cost for accounting purposes.
Subsequently the owner-occupied property is depreciated over its useful economic life and revalued at the balance sheet date.
Revaluation gains and losses are taken to reserves.
Property that is being constructed or developed for future use as investment property is classified as property, plant and equipment and stated at cost until construction or development is complete, at which time it is reclassified and subsequently accounted for as investment property.
If an item of property, plant and equipment becomes an investment property because its use has changed, any differences resulting between the carrying amount and the fair value of this item at the date of transfer is recognised in equity as a revaluation of property, plant and equipment under IAS 16.
However, if a fair value gain reverses a previous impairment loss, the gain is recognised in the income statement.
2.7 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Depreciation on Property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost less estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Plant and equipment 4 5 years Freehold property 6 years The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Freehold property is depreciated until December 2014 after which it is anticipated that it will be re-developed.
