56 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 31 December 2008 3 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 3.3 Risk management objectives The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management approach seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance whilst maintaining flexibility.
Risk management is carried out by the central treasury department Group Treasury in close co-operation with the Groups operating units and with guidance from the Board of Directors.
The Board regularly assesses and reviews the financial risks and exposures of the Group.
a Market risk The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates and to a lesser extent other price risk.
The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk and also uses natural hedging strategies such as matching assets and liabilities in terms of duration, interest payments and currency.
There has been no change to the Groups exposure to market risks or the manner in which it manages and measures that risk.
i Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the Euro and the Swedish Kroner.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised monetary assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations which are denominated in a currency that is not the entitys functional currency.
Group Treasury manages the entire foreign exchange risk exposure for the Group and monitors the Groups exposure on a regular basis.
The general policy of the Group is to match the currency of investments acquired with the related borrowing which largely eliminates foreign exchange risk on property investments.
A portion of the remaining operations, equating to the net assets of the foreign property operations is un-hedged.
In some cases where foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions the Group will hedge the future committed commercial transactions using foreign exchange swaps or forward foreign exchange contracts.
The Groups principal foreign currency exposures are in respect of the Euro and the Swedish Kroner.
If the value of Sterling were to increase in strength by 1% against the value of the Euro then this would result in an increase of the Groups net assets of 1.7m and a decrease in the Groups loss of 797 thousand.
If the value of Sterling were to decrease in strength by 1% against the value of the Euro then this would result in an decrease of the Group equity of 1.7m and an increase in the Groups loss of 813 thousand.
If the value of Sterling were to increase in strength by 1% against the value of the Swedish Kroner then this would result in an increase of the Groups net assets of 169 thousand and a decrease in the Groups loss of 115 thousand.
If the value of Sterling were to decrease in strength by 1% against the value of the Swedish Kroner then this would result in an decrease of the Group equity of 173 thousand and an increase in the Groups loss of 118 thousand.
Management consider a 1% movement to be a reasonable assumption in normal market conditions.
ii Interest rate risk The Groups most significant interest rate risk arises from its long-term variable rate borrowings.
Interest rate risk is regularly monitored by Group Treasury and by the Board on both a country basis and on a Group basis.
The Boards policy is to minimise variable interest rate exposure whilst maintaining the flexibility to borrow at the best rates and with consideration to potential penalties on termination of fixed rate loans.
To manage its exposure the Group uses variable to fixed interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and also natural or passive hedging from cash held on deposit.
In assessing risk, a range of scenarios is taken into consideration such as refinancing, renewal of existing positions and alternative financing and hedging.
Based on these scenarios, the Group calculates the impact on the profit and loss account for a defined shift in the underlying interest rate.
For each simulation, the same interest rate shift is used for all currencies.
The scenarios are run only for those liabilities that represent the major interest-bearing positions.
Based upon the results of the various scenarios, the Group manages its variable interest-rate risk by using a combination of floating-to-fixed interest-rate swaps, caps, floors and collars.
Interest-rate swaps have the economic effect of converting borrowings from floating rates to fixed rates.
Under the interest-rate swaps, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals mainly quarterly, the difference between fixed contract rates and floating-rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional principal amounts.
57 CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 3 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 3.3 Risk management objectives continued a Market risk continued ii Interest rate risk continued The table below shows the effect on the income statement and to equity that would result from an increase or decrease of 1% 2007: 0.5% in market interest rates which is an amount management believe to be reasonable in the current market.
All other factors are held constant.
2008 2007 Income 2008 Income 2007 statement Equity statement Equity Scenario: Shift of 100 basis points 2007: 50 basis points 000 000 000 000 Cash 100 basis points 2007: 50 basis points 1,383 1,383 545 545 Variable borrowings including caps 100 basis points 2007: 50 basis points 540 540 815 815 Cash 100 basis points 2007: 50 basis points 1,383 1,383 545 545 Variable borrowings including caps 100 basis points 2007: 50 basis points 1,200 1,200 1,263 1,263 iii Other price risk Equity investments The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk because of investments held by the Group and classified on the consolidated balance sheet either as available-for-sale, or at fair value through profit or loss.
The Group is not exposed to commodity price risk.
In order to manage the risk in relation to the holdings of equity securities the Group holds a diversified portfolio.
Diversification of the portfolio is managed in accordance with the limits set up by the Group.
This activity is not a core business of the Group and changes in value of the investments would not have a material impact.
b Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, some derivative financial instruments and deposits with financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to tenants, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is partly represented by the carrying amounts of the financial assets that are carried in the balance sheet, including derivatives with positive market values.
For credit exposure other than exposure to tenants, the Directors believe that counterparty risk is minimised to the extent possible as the Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any single financial institution.
With regard to the credit risk in relation to tenants, the Group has policies in place to ensure that rental contracts are made with customers with an appropriate credit history.
Credit risk to tenants is assessed by a process of internal and external credit scoring.
The Group also reduces its credit risk to tenants by obtaining bank guarantees from the tenant company or its parent and receipted rental deposits as appropriate in individual circumstances.
The overall credit risk in relation to tenants is monitored on an ongoing basis with particular emphasis directed around the quarterly rent raise to ensure that the policies in place achieve the desired objective.
Moreover, a significant proportion of the Group portfolio is let to Government tenants which can be considered financially secure.
Management do not expect any significant losses in relation to receivables.
Management have considered the credit risk in relation to all financial assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and no adjustments have resulted.
c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk management requires maintaining sufficient cash, other liquid assets and the availability of funding to meet short, medium and long-term requirements.
The Group maintains adequate levels of liquid assets to fund operations and to allow the Group to quickly react to potential new opportunities in the dynamic market in which it operates.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity on the basis of expected cash flow so that future requirements can be managed effectively.
Loan covenant compliance is closely monitored by the Groups Treasury department.
Where covenant breaches are likely to occur, these can generally be rectified by the placing of additional security or cash deposit with the lending party, or by partial repayment before an actual event of default occurs.
The significant majority of the Groups debt is arranged on an asset-specific, non-recourse basis.
This allows the Group a higher degree of flexibility in dealing with potential covenant defaults on an asset by asset basis, rather than on a group-wide borrowing facility.
