89 CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS at 31 December 2008 1 GENERAL INFORMATION The financial statements have been prepared under UK GAAP in accordance with applicable accounting standards under the historical cost convention.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year unless otherwise stated.
CLS Holdings plc is the ultimate parent company of the CLS Holdings Group.
Its primary activity which occurred exclusively in the United Kingdom is to hold shares in subsidiary companies.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly they continue to adopt the Going Concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts, as detailed in the Directors report on pages 25 to 29.
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 2.1 Investment in Group Companies Investments have been valued at cost.
If the equity value of the investment is lower than the cost price, this valuation will be adjusted accordingly, provided that management considers this to be a permanent diminution in value.
This is reviewed on an annual basis.
Dividend income will be recognised when received.
2.2 Pension costs The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme for all eligible employees.
The pension costs charged to the profit and loss account represent the contributions payable.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
2.3 Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
2.4 Related party transactions Advantage has been taken of the exemption allowed in FRS 8 not to disclose transactions with entities that are part of the Group where consolidated accounts are publicly available.
There were no other related party transactions during the year.
2.5 Payroll Details of the Directors employed during the year and of their remuneration is included in the Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 39.
2.6 Foreign Currency Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Tangible assets denominated in foreign currencies are shown at historical cost.
Current assets and all liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate ruling at the end of the financial year.
All differences are dealt with through the profit and loss account.
3 PROFIT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the parent Companys profit and loss account has not been presented in these financial statements.
The parent Companys retained profit for the financial year was 80,141 thousand 2007: Profit of 29,240 thousand.
Fees payable to the Company auditor for the audit of the Company accounts were 45 thousand 2007: 45.5 thousand.
4 TENDER OFFER BUY-BACKS As noted in the Directors Report in lieu of paying an interim cash dividend in 2008 the Company made two distributions by way of a tender offer buy-back 2007: distribution of 9,290,370 or 13.2 pence per share.
The first tender offer was by way of a Circular dated 20 October 2008 for the purchase of 1 in every 25 shares at 425pence per share and was completed in November 2008.
It returned 10,946,487 to shareholders, equivalent to 17 pence per share.
The second tender offer by way of a Circular dated 1 December 2008 for the purchase of 2 in every 9 shares at 350pence per share and was completed in January 2009.
It returned 48,024,252.50 to shareholders, equivalent to 78 pence per share.
The second tender offer has not been reflected in these financial statements.
