53 CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.11 Impairment of assets Intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
2.12 Income tax The charge for current taxation is based on the results for the year as adjusted for items which are non-taxable or disallowed or which are taxable or deductible in another year.
It is calculated using the rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Tax payable on capital gains realised on investment properties that have been revalued in previous periods is included in the current tax charge and any related deferred tax provision is released.
Deferred income tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method.
Provision is made for temporary differences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the values used for tax purposes.
Temporary differences are not provided for when they arise from initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition of assets and liabilities in a transaction that does not affect accounting or taxable profit.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and is calculated using rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised in the tax jurisdiction in which the temporary differences arise.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be used.
The deferred income tax assets and liabilities are only offset if they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority, there is a legally enforceable right of set off and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
When distributions are controlled by the Group, and it is probable the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future, deferred tax which would arise on the distribution of profits realised in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures is provided in the same period as the liability to pay the distribution is recognised in the financial statements.
2.13 Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
2.14 Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and is stated net of sales taxes and value added taxes.
a Rental and similar revenue Rental revenue from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
When the Group provides incentives to its customers, the cost of incentives are recognised over the lease term, on a straight-line basis, as a reduction of rental revenue.
b Service charge and similar revenue Service and management charge revenue is recognised on a gross basis in the accounting period in which the services are rendered.
Where the Group is acting as an agent, the commission rather than gross revenue is recorded as revenue.
c Other operating income Revenue from the sale of goods and services is booked when the revenue can be calculated reliably, and the risks and benefits have been transferred to the buyer.
Revenues are booked net, i. e. after deductions for VAT and discounts.
d Interest income Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets carrying amount.
