54 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 31 December 2008 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.14 Revenue recognition continued e Gain on disposal of investment property Gain or loss on disposal of investment property is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer.
This normally occurs when legal title passes to the buyer.
In some cases, real estate may be sold with a degree of continuing involvement by the seller such that the risks and rewards of ownership have not been transferred.
In such cases, the nature and extent of the Groups continuing involvement determines how the transaction is accounted for.
If it is accounted for as a sale, the continuing involvement of the Group may delay the recognition of revenue.
The Group also considers the means of payment and evidence of the buyers commitment to complete payment.
For example, when the aggregate of the payments received, including the buyers initial down payment, or continuing payments by the buyer, provides insufficient evidence of the buyers commitment to complete payment, revenue is recognised only to the extent that cash is received.
2.15 Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Certain operating leases for land that is classified and accounted for as investment property pursuant to IAS 40 Investment properties are accounted for as if they were finance leases.
a A Group company is the lessee i Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
ii Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets at the lease commencement date at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Each lease payment is allocated between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups policy on borrowing costs.
b A Group company is the lessor i Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
ii Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as receivables at the amount of the Groups net investment in the leases.
Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a constant periodic return on the Groups net investment outstanding in respect of the leases.
2.16 Employee benefits a Pension obligations The Group operates various defined contribution plans.
The Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future payments is available.
b Share-based compensation The Group operates an equity-settled, share-based compensation plan.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted at grant date, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, the employee remaining in the Groups employment.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of revising original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
