47 CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.1 Basis of preparation continued The majority of amendments made as part of the IASBs Annual Improvements programme affect accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
Included within the amendments is a change in the accounting treatment for development properties.
Currently, such properties are accounted for under IAS 16, but they will in future be accounted for under IAS 40.
This change will mean that revaluation surpluses and deficits on development properties will in future be recognised in the income statement rather than equity.
2.2 Business combinations a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding representing more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the business combination.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination that meet the recognition criteria under IFRS 3 are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the minoritys share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
b Joint ventures The Groups interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted for by proportionate consolidation.
The Group combines its share of the joint ventures individual income and expenses, assets and liabilities and cash flows on a line-by-line basis with similar items in the Group financial statements.
The Group recognises the portion of gains or losses on the sale of assets by the Group to the joint venture that is attributable to the other venturers.
The Group does not recognise its share of the profits or losses from the joint venture that result from the Groups purchase of assets from the joint venture until it resells the assets to an independent party.
If the loss provides evidence of an impairment loss, or in the case of current assets, evidence of a reduction in the net realisable value below cost or which takes it to below cost, it is recognised immediately.
c Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding representing between 20 per cent and 50 per cent of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates.
