50 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 31 December 2008 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.8 Intangible assets Intangible assets comprise acquired separable trade names, customer relationships, technology and internally generated development and other costs.
Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and in respect of business combinations are capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, the cost model is applied.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite.
Where assessed as finite, the asset is amortised over its estimated useful life on a straight-line basis.
All intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever an indication of impairment is identified.
Trade names 11 years Customer relationships 10-11 years Technology 4 years Capitalised development and other costs indefinite 2.9 Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade date where the purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially recognised at fair value, plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as fair value through the profit or loss, which are initially measured at fair value.
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments, and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose and is determined at the time the investments were acquired.
Financial assets include other investments Note 18, derivative financial instruments Note 19, trade and other receivables Note 20 and cash and cash equivalents Note 21. a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading, and those designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated by management.
Derivatives are classified as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets if they are expected to be realised within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Financial assets at fair value through the profit or loss are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial assets.
b Loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
c Held to maturity investments Held to maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Groups management has a positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
During the year, the Group did not hold any financial assets in this category.
d Available for sale financial assets Available for sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or are not classified in any of the other categories.
Available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity in the fair value reserve with the exception of impairment losses, interest calculated using the effective interest rate method and foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary assets.
Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the fair value reserve is included in profit or loss for the period.
Dividends on available for sale financial assets are included in profit or loss when the Groups right to receive the dividend is established.
51 CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.9 Financial instruments continued Effective interest method The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest income over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts including all amounts paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts through the expected life of the financial asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Derecognition of financial assets Investments are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets other than financial assets at fair value through the profit or loss are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired when there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the asset have been impacted.
For shares classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the profit or loss.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that the carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not have been recognised.
In respect of available for sale financial assets, impairment losses previously recognised through profit or loss are not reversed through profit or loss.
Any increase in fair value subsequent to an impairment loss is recognised directly in equity.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified either as financial liabilities at fair value through the profit or loss or as other financial liabilities.
a Financial liabilities at fair value through the profit or loss Financial liabilities are classified at fair value through the profit or loss where they are either held for trading or are designated as fair value through the profit or loss.
The Group holds derivatives that are not part of a designated hedging relationship that are classified as held for trading.
Financial liabilities at fair value through the profit or loss are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability.
b Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, with accrued interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest rate method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash flows through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
