59 CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 3 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 3.4 Fair value estimation continued e In more illiquid conditions, non-derivative financial assets are valued using multiple quotes obtained from brokers.
Where the spread of prices is tightly clustered we conclude that the consensus price is at fair value.
Where prices become more dispersed or there is a lack of available quoted data, further procedures are undertaken such as evidence from the last non-forced trade to give context to the quotes available.
f The fair value of other non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments.
Except for investment in associates in Note 17 and borrowings set out in Note 27, the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities recorded at amortised cost approximate their fair value.
4 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in Note 2, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Changes to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The following are the critical estimates and judgements that the Directors have made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies and that have most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
a Fair value of investment properties The best evidence of fair value is current prices in an active market for similar lease and other contracts.
In the absence of such information, the Group determines the amount within a range of reasonable fair value estimates.
In making its judgement, the Group considers information from a variety of sources including: i Current prices in an active market for properties of different nature, condition or location or subject to different lease or other contracts, adjusted to reflect those differences: ii Recent prices of similar properties in less active markets, with adjustments to reflect any changes in economic conditions since the date of the transactions that occurred at those prices: and iii Discounted cash flow projections based on reliable estimates of future cash flows, derived from the terms of any existing lease and other contracts, and where possible from external evidence such as current market rents for similar properties in the same location and condition, and using discount rates that reflect current market assessments of the uncertainty in the amount and timing of the cash flows.
As referred to in the Chairmans Statement on page 5, the current economic climate and lower transactional volumes in the real estate markets in which CLS is active has meant that our valuers have referred to greater use of professional judgement in arriving at the year end valuation.
Further discussion is given in Note 14. b Income Taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in different jurisdictions and estimation is required to determine the worldwide provision for income taxes.
There are some transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which determination is made.
c Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets When assessing possible impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets the Group is required to make an assessment of recoverable amounts.
Recoverable amount is calculated as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In making these assessments, assumptions are required to be made based upon information available at the time.
d Deferred tax The method of calculation of deferred tax in relation to UK properties assumes that indexation allowance will be available as it is assumed that the Group will recover the carrying amount of its investment properties through use followed by an eventual sale.
