46 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2008 1 GENERAL INFORMATION CLS Holdings plc the Company and its subsidiaries together CLS Holdings or the Group is an investment property group which is principally involved in the investment, development and management of commercial properties.
The Groups principal operations are carried out in the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Sweden.
The Company is registered in the UK, registration number 2714781, at registered address: 86 Bondway, London SW8 1SF.
The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis as explained in the Directors Report on page 29.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations, and the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
New standards and interpretations In the current year, the Group has adopted the following standards and guidance: IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 : IFRIC 11: IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions: and IFRIC 14: IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction.
These pronouncements either had no impact on the financial statements or resulted in changes to presentation and disclosure only.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective.
It is anticipated they will be applied when they become effective.
In some cases these standards and guidance have not been endorsed by the European Union: Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: Reclassification of Financial Instruments: and Reclassification of Financial Assets: effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008 IFRS 8 Operating Segments: effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation: effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 October 2008 IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners: effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009 IFRS 8 Operating segments: effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements A revised presentation: effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based payment: effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009 Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items: effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009 IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate: effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009 IFRS 3 revised Business combinations: effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements: effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 Amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 27 Cost of Investment on a subsidiary jointly controlled Entity or Associate: effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
These pronouncements, when applied, will either result in changes to presentation and disclosure, or are not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements.
