Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Seventy Third Annual General Meeting of Daejan Holdings PLC will be held at The Methven Room, CBI, 1st Floor, Centre Point, New Oxford Street, London WC1, on Tuesday 16 September 2008 at 12.30 p. m. for the following purposes: Ordinary Business To consider and if thought fit, pass the following Ordinary Resolutions: 1.
To receive the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 together with the Reports of the Directors and the Auditors.
To approve the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2008.
To re-elect BSE Freshwater who retires by rotation.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors, and to authorise the Directors to agree their remuneration.
Special Business To consider and if thought fit, pass the following Special Resolution: 6.
That the Articles of Association contained in the document produced to the meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purposes of identification be approved and adopted as the new Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association, with effect from the conclusion of the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board, M R M Jenner Secretary 22 July 2008 A Member entitled to attend and vote may appoint one or more proxies to attend, and on a poll, to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a Member of the Company.
Only those Members registered in the Register of Members of the Company as at 6.00 pm on 14 September 2008 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the aforesaid Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
To be valid, forms of proxy must be received by the Companys Registrars at least 48 hours before the time fixed for the Meeting.
The recommended final dividend will, if approved, be paid on 7 November 2008 to Shareholders registered at the close of business on 10 October 2008.
No Director has a service contract.
Page 52 sterling greenaways 101231 Design, art direction and photography by Roger Watt
