Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Significant accounting policies Daejan Holdings PLC is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2008 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in associates.
The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issuance on 22 July 2008. a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with UK GAAP and these are presented on pages 46 to 49. b Basis of preparation The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments, investment properties, other non-current investments and current asset investments.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Standards which have been issued and adopted in the year have had no material impact on the financial statements.
IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and the complementary amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures have been adopted for the first time in these accounts, introducing new disclosures relating to financial instruments but having no impact on the classification or valuation of these instruments.
The Directors are aware of the following standards in issue but not effective at the balance sheet date: IFRS 8, Operating segments.
The Directors do not consider the impact of this standard to be significant.
Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing costs not yet endorsed by the EU.
Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements not yet endorsed by the EU.
Other standards are in issue, however these are not expected to have a material impact on the results of the Group.
These Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on the basis of IFRSs in issue that are effective at the Groups annual reporting date.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the Group for purposes of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
