Financial statements Accounting policies Basis of preparation Business combinations These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with All of the subsidiarys identifiable assets and liabilities, including International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, International contingent liabilities, existing at the date of acquisition are recorded Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations at their fair values.
All changes to those assets and liabilities and the and Standing Interpretations Committee SIC interpretations resulting gains and losses that arise after the Group has gained control endorsed by the European Union EU and with those parts of the of the subsidiary are included in the post-acquisition income statement.
Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of Jointly controlled entities the EU International Accounting Standards Regulation.
The financial A jointly controlled entity is an entity in which the Group holds an interest statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention with one or more other parties where a contractual arrangement has as modified by the revaluation of available for sale financial assets, established joint control over the entity.
Jointly controlled entities are derivative financial instruments and share-based payments.
A summary accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
of the more significant Group accounting policies is set out below.
Jointly controlled operations The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally The Group enters into jointly controlled operations as part of its accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and housebuilding and property development activities.
The Groups share assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities of profits and losses from its investments in such jointly controlled at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of operations are accounted for on a direct basis and are included in the revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these consolidated income statement.
The Groups share of its investments estimates are based on the Directors best knowledge of the amounts, assets and liabilities are accounted for on a directly proportional basis actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The most in the consolidated balance sheet.
significant estimates made by the Directors in these financial statements are set out in Critical accounting judgements and key Revenue sources of estimation uncertainty.
Revenue is recognised at legal completion in respect of the total proceeds of building and development, and an appropriate proportion Adoption of new and revised standards of revenue from construction contracts is recognised by reference to In the year ended 30 June 2008, the Group has adopted IFRS7 the stage of completion of contract activity.
Revenue is measured at Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
IFRS7 has expanded the the fair value of consideration received or receivable and represents the disclosure requirements of the Group regarding financial instruments.
amounts receivable for the property, net of discounts and VAT.
The sale The adoption of this standard has not had any impact upon the profit proceeds of part-exchange properties are not included in revenue.
or net assets of the Group in either the current or comparative year.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal In the current financial year, the Group has also adopted the outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
amendment to IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures.
This amendment has expanded the disclosures provided Construction contracts by the Group about the management of its capital resources.
The Revenue is only recognised on a construction contract where the adoption of this amendment has not had any impact upon the profit outcome can be estimated reliably.
Revenue and costs are recognised or net assets of the Group in either the current or comparative year.
by reference to the stage of completion of contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured by surveys of work Basis of consolidation performed to date.
Contracts are only treated as construction contracts The Group financial statements include the results of the holding when they have been specifically negotiated for the construction of a company and all its subsidiary undertakings made up to 30 June.
When it is probable that the total costs on a The financial statements of subsidiary undertakings are consolidated construction contract will exceed total contract revenue, the expected from the date when control passes to the Group using the loss is recognised as an expense in the income statement immediately.
purchase method of accounting and up to the date control ceases.
All transactions with subsidiaries and inter-company profits or Amounts recoverable on construction contracts are included in trade losses are eliminated on consolidation.
receivables and stated at cost plus attributable profit less any foreseeable losses.
Payments received on account for construction contracts are deducted from amounts recoverable on construction contracts.
Payments received in excess of amounts recoverable on construction contracts are included in trade payables.
Barratt Developments Annual Report and Accounts 2008 49 | Financial statements Accounting policies Exceptional items For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of Items that are both material in size and unusual or infrequent in nature the cash-generating units of the Group at acquisition.
Cash-generating are presented as exceptional items in the income statement.
The units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment Directors are of the opinion that the separate recording of exceptional at least annually.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating items provides helpful information about the Groups underlying unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is business performance.
Examples of events that, inter alia, may give allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated rise to the classification of items as exceptional are the restructuring to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the of existing and newly-acquired businesses, gains or losses on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment disposal of businesses or individual assets and asset impairments, is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not including currently developable land, work in progress and goodwill.
Restructuring costs Intangible assets Restructuring costs are recognised in the income statement when the Brands Group has a detailed plan that has been communicated to the affected Internally generated brands are not capitalised.
The Group has capitalised parties.
A liability is accrued for unpaid restructuring costs.
as intangible assets brands that have been acquired.
Acquired brand values are calculated using discounted cash flows.
Where a brand is Profit from operations considered to have a finite life, it is amortised over its useful life on a Profit from operations includes all of the revenue and costs derived straight-line basis.
Where a brand is capitalised with an indefinite life, it is from the Groups operating businesses.
Profit from operations excludes not amortised.
The factors that result in the durability of brands capitalised finance costs, finance income, the Groups share of profits or losses are that there are no material legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, from joint ventures and tax.
economic or other factors that limit the useful life of these intangible assets.
Dividends The Group carries out an annual impairment review of indefinite life Interim dividends are recognised in the financial statements at the time brands by performing a value-in-use calculation, using a discount factor that they are paid, and final dividends are recognised at the time of based upon the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital.
agreement by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Investments The Company recognises dividends from subsidiaries at the time that Interests in subsidiary undertakings are accounted for at cost less any they are received.
Segmental reporting Where share-based payments are granted to the employees of subsidiary The Group consists of two separate segments for management undertakings by the parent Company, they are treated as a capital reporting and control purposes, being housebuilding and commercial contribution to the subsidiary and the Companys investment in the developments.
The Group manages these segments separately due subsidiary is increased accordingly.
to the different operational and commercial risks that they face.
These segments therefore comprise the primary reporting segments within Property, plant and equipment the financial statements.
As all of the Groups operations are within the Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated United Kingdom, which is one economic environment in the context of depreciation.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of the assets the Groups activities, there are no geographic segments to be disclosed.
on a straight-line basis to their residual value over their estimated useful lives.
Residual values and asset lives are reviewed annually.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the fair value Freehold properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis over 25 years.
of the consideration over the fair value of the separately identifiable net Freehold land is not depreciated.
Plant is depreciated on a straight-line assets and liabilities acquired.
basis over its expected useful life, which ranges from one to seven years.
Goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and businesses Inventories is capitalised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value on a weighted average cost basis.
Cost comprises direct materials, direct labour costs and those overheads which have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Barratt Developments 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Financial statements Accounting policies Land held for development, including land in the course of Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences development, is initially recorded at fair value.
Where, through deferred that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date purchase credit terms, the fair value differs from the amount that will where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more ultimately be paid in settling the liability, this difference is charged as tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred a finance cost in the income statement over the period of settlement.
at the balance sheet date.
Due to the scale of the Groups developments, the Group has to allocate Deferred tax is calculated at the rates that are expected to apply in the site-wide development costs between units built in the current year period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax and in future years.
It also has to estimate costs to complete on such is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates developments.
In making these assessments there is a degree of inherent to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the uncertainty.
The Group has developed internal controls to assess and deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
review carrying values and the appropriateness of estimates made.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore Leases as lessee recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement in equal be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable instalments over the life of the lease.
profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Leases as lessor The Group enters into leasing arrangements with third parties following Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally the completion of constructed developments until the date of the sale enforceable right to set-off current tax assets against current tax liabilities of the development to third parties.
Rental income from these operating and when they relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority and the leases is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
over the term of the lease.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the Pensions leased asset and recognised in the income statement on a straight-line Defined contribution basis over the lease term.
The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes for certain employees.
The Groups contributions to the schemes are charged Share-based payments against profits in the year in which the contributions fall due.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS2 Defined benefit Share-based Payments has been applied to all grants of equity The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit scheme is instruments after 7 November 2002 that had not vested at determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
The assets of 1 January 2005. the defined benefit pension scheme are measured at fair value.
The liabilities of the defined benefit pension scheme are measured on an Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date actuarial basis and discounted to present value.
The net obligation of grant.
Fair value is measured either using Present-Economic Value is calculated by a qualified independent actuary and is recognised models or Monte Carlo models dependent upon the characteristics of the as a liability in the balance sheet.
The fair value is expensed in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of The Group uses a corridor approach when accounting for actuarial shares that will eventually vest where non-market vesting conditions apply.
The corridor used is the greater of: 10% of the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end Tax of the previous year: or The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and 10% of the fair value of plan assets at the end of the previous year.
The amount recognised in the income statement is the excess of The tax currently payable is based on the profit for the year.
Taxable unrecognised actuarial gains and losses over the corridor spread over profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement the expected average working lives of members of the scheme.
because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never The operating and financing costs of the defined benefit pension taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated scheme are recognised in the income statement.
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Barratt Developments Annual Report and Accounts 2008 51 | Financial statements Accounting policies Financial instruments Objective evidence of impairment could include significant financial Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups difficulty of the customer, default on payment terms or the customer balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual going into liquidation.
The carrying amount of trade and other receivables is reduced through The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual the use of an allowance account.
When a trade or other receivable rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the financial is considered uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written asset to another entity.
off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the The Group derecognises a financial liability only when the Groups income statement.
obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
For financial assets classified as available for sale, a significant or Financial assets prolonged decline in the value of the property underpinning the value Non-derivative financial assets are classified as either available for of the loan is considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
sale financial assets or loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is In respect of available for sale financial assets, impairment losses determined at the time of initial recognition.
previously recognised through the income statement are not reversed through the income statement.
Any increase in fair value subsequent Available for sale financial assets to an impairment loss is recognised directly in equity.
Zero coupon loans granted as part of sales transactions that are secured by way of a legal charge on the respective property are Cash and cash equivalents classified as being available for sale and are stated at fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash and balances in bank Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 17. accounts with no notice or less than three months notice from inception and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity in retained earnings, with the exceptions of impairment Cash and cash equivalents are classified as loans and receivables.
losses and interest calculated using the effective interest rate method, which are recognised directly in the income statement.
Where the Financial liabilities and equity investment is disposed of, or is determined to be impaired, the Financial liabilities and equity are classified according to the substance cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included of the contractual arrangements entered into.
in the income statement for the period.
Equity instruments Trade and other receivables Equity instruments consist of the Companys ordinary share capital Trade and other receivables are financial assets with fixed or and are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater Financial liabilities than twelve months after the balance sheet date, which are classified All non-derivative financial liabilities are classified as other financial as non-current assets and are measured at amortised cost less an liabilities and are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
The net of these balances costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at are classified as trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Trade and other receivables are classified as loans and receivables.
Other financial liabilities consist of bank borrowings and trade and other payables.
Impairment of financial assets Trade and other receivables are assessed for indicators of impairment Financial liabilities are classified as current liabilities unless the Group at each balance sheet date and are impaired where there is objective has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least evidence that the recovery of the receivable is in doubt.
twelve months after the balance sheet date.
Barratt Developments 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Financial statements Accounting policies Trade and other payables Hedge accounting Trade and other payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and All of the Groups interest rate and cross currency swaps are are stated at amortised cost.
designated as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship the Group documents the relationship between Trade and other payables on extended terms, particularly in respect of the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk land, are recorded at their fair value at the date of acquisition of the asset management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various to which they relate by discounting at prevailing market interest rates hedged transactions.
In addition, at the inception of the hedge and at the date of recognition.
The discount to nominal value, which will be on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging paid in settling the deferred purchase terms liability, is amortised over instrument is highly effective in offsetting the changes in cash the period of the credit term and charged to finance costs using the flows of the hedged items.
Details of the fair values of the interest rate and cross currency Bank borrowings swaps are provided in notes 24, 25 and 26 to the financial statements.
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the Movements on the hedging reserve in equity are detailed in note 31. proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Cash flow hedge Where bank agreements include a legal right of offset for in hand and To the extent that the Groups cash flow hedges are effective, gains overdraft balances, and the Group intends to net settle the outstanding and losses on the fair value of the interest rate and cross currency position, the offset arrangements are applied to record the net position swap arrangements are deferred in equity in the hedging reserve until in the balance sheet.
On realisation such gains and losses are recognised within finance charges in the income statement.
To the extent that any Finance income and charges are accounted for using the effective hedge is ineffective, gains and losses on the fair value of these swap interest rate method in the income statement.
arrangements are recognised immediately in finance charges in the income statement.
Finance costs are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period to which they relate.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss.
Derivative financial instruments The Group has entered into derivative financial instruments in the form Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument of interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps to manage the interest expires or is terminated or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
rate and foreign exchange rate risk arising from the Groups operations At that time, any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity remains in and sources of finance.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors as detailed in recognised in profit or loss.
When a forecast transaction is no longer notes 26 and 27 to the financial statements.
expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The swap arrangements are designated as hedging instruments, being either hedges of a change in future cash flows as a result of interest Government grants rate movements, or hedges of a change in future cash flows as a result Government grants are recognised in the income statement so as of foreign currency exchange rate movements.
to match with the related costs that they are intended to compensate.
Grants related to assets are deducted from the carrying amount of the The fair value of hedging derivatives is classified as a non-current asset.
Grants related to income are deducted from the related expense asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the hedging in the income statement.
relationship is more than twelve months and as a current asset or a current liability if the remaining maturity of the hedge relationship is less than twelve months.
Barratt Developments Annual Report and Accounts 2008 53
