How to Invest As well as investing in F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited directly through a stockbroker, you can enjoy some additional benefits by investing through one of the savings plans run by F&C.
You can enjoy the convenience of making regular savings by Direct Debit, take advantage of our tax-efficient ISA wrapper, receive a simple statement every six months and let us automatically reinvest your dividends for you.
F&C Private Investor Plan F&C Child Trust Fund CTF A flexible, low cost way to invest with a lump sum F&C is a leading provider of childrens investment from 500 or regular savings from 50 a month.
Suitable for children born after 1 September 2002.
F&C lnvestment Trust ISA F&C Childrens lnvestment Plan Invest up to 7,200 tax efficiently each year with Suitable for older children ineligible for a CTF, or if a lump sum from 500 or regular savings from you need access to the funds before the child is 50 a month.
You can also transfer any existing 18.
This flexible plan can easily be written under ISAs including former PEPs.
trust to help reduce inheritance tax liability.
Investments can be made from a 250 lump sum or 25 a month.
Potential investors are reminded that the value of investments and the income from them may go down as well as up and you may not receive back the full amount originally invested.
Tax rates and reliefs depend on the circumstances of the original investor.
Low Charges All the plans are low cost and flexible.
When you buy or sell shares in these plans the dealing fee is only 0.2%.
Government stamp duty of 0.5% also applies on purchases.
There are no initial or exit charges.
The only annual management fee is on the ISA, which is 60 VAT no matter how many ISAs you take out annually with F&C, or how many lSAs you transfer.
The F&C Child Trust Fund has no initial charges, dealing charges or annual management fee.
How to Invest For more information on any of these products, please contact F&Cs Investor Services Team: Call us on 0800 136 420 Or write to: F&C email at info@fandc.
com Freepost RLRY-LYSR-KYBU invest online at www.
com Clandeboye Business Park West Circular Road Existing plan holders enquiry line Bangor BT19 1AR 0845 600 3030 Calls may be recorded.
The above has been approved by F&C Management Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
46 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Corporate Information Directors Property Valuers of Direct Properties Peter Niven Chairman DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited Donald L Adamson One Curzon Street John H Stephen London W1A 5PZ Brian W Sweetland Nicholas J M Tostevin Auditor KPMG Channel Islands Limited 20 New Street Secretary and Registrars St. Peter Port Northern Trust International Fund Administration Guernsey GY1 4AN Services Guernsey Limited Trafalgar Court Guernsey Legal Advisers Les Banques Ozannes St. Peter Port 1 Le Marchant Street Guernsey, Channel Islands St. Peter Port Guernsey GY1 4HP Registered Office UK Legal Advisers Trafalgar Court Dickson Minto WS Les Banques 16 Charlotte Square St. Peter Port Edinburgh EH2 4DF Guernsey, Channel Islands Bond Trustee Investment Managers The Bank of New York F&C Investment Business Limited One Canada Square 80 George Street London E14 5AL Edinburgh EH2 3BU Marketing Advisers F&C REIT Asset Management LLP G&N Collective Funds Services Ltd 5 Wigmore Street 14 Alva Street London W1U 1PB Edinburgh EH2 4QG Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee Website www.
co. uk MLGEdinburgh 50896 Registered Office Trafalgar Court Les Banques St. Peter Port Guernsey, Channel Islands Registrars Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited Trafalgar Court Les Banques St. Peter Port Guernsey, Channel Islands Telephone: 01481 745 001
