Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Fourth Annual General d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the Meeting of F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited will be authority hereby conferred shall expire at the held at Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St. Peter Port, conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Guernsey, Channel Islands on Friday, 1 May 2009 at Company to be held in 2010, or on 31 October 12.30 pm for the following purposes.
2010, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a To consider and, if thought fit, pass the contract to purchase Ordinary Shares under such following as Ordinary Resolutions: authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant to any such contract.
That the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 be received and approved.
By order of the Board Northern Trust International Fund Administration 2.
That Mr J H Stephen, who retires by rotation, be Services Guernsey Limited re-elected as a Director.
That Mr N J M Tostevin, who retires by rotation, be Trafalgar Court re-elected as a Director.
Les Banques St. Peter Port 4.
That Mr B W Sweetland, who retires annually, be Guernsey, Channel Islands re-elected as a Director.
That KPMG Channel Islands Limited be re-appointed as auditor.
That the Directors be authorised to determine the auditors remuneration.
Notes: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the 1.
A member who is entitled to attend, speak and vote at the Meeting following as a Special Resolution: is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of him or her.
More than one proxy may be appointed provided each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to 7.
That the Company be authorised, in accordance with different shares.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
section 315 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, to 2.
More than one proxy may be appointed provided each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares.
make market acquisitions within the meaning of 3.
A white form of proxy is enclosed for use at the Meeting.
The form section 316 1 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 of proxy should be completed and sent, together with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, or a of ordinary shares of 1p each Ordinary Shares notarially certified copy of such power or authority, so as to reach the Companys registrars Computershare Investor Services Channel either for retention as treasury shares for future resale Islands Limited, PO Box 83, Ordnance House, 31 Pier Road, St. Helier, Jersey JE4 8PW not later than 12.30 pm on 29 April 2009. or transfer, or cancellation, provided that: 4.
Completing and returning a form of proxy will not prevent a member from attending in person at the Meeting and voting should he or a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby she so wish.
authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99 per cent 5.
To have the right to attend and vote at the Meeting and also for the purposes of calculating how many votes a member may cast on of the issued Ordinary Shares on the date on which a poll a member must first have his or her name entered on the register of members not later than close of business on 29 April this resolution is passed: 2009.
Changes to entries in the register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any member to attend and b the minimum price which may be paid for an vote at such Meeting.
As at 27 March 2009, the latest practicable date prior to publication Ordinary Share shall be 1p: of this document, the Company had 753,082,016 Ordinary Shares in issue, including 72,545,013 in treasury.
The number of shares c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which with voting rights was 680,537,003, each carrying one voting right.
may be paid for an Ordinary Share shall be 105 per 7.
Any person holding 3 per cent or more of the total voting rights in the Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as cent of the average of the middle market quotations his proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the as derived from the Daily Official List for the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Ordinary Shares for the five business days 8.
The Articles of Association and the Directors letters of appointment will be available for inspection from 15 minutes prior to, and at, the immediately preceding the date of purchase: and Annual General Meeting.
