Directors Responsibilities financial statements comply with The Companies Directors Responsibilities for the Guernsey Law, 2008.
They have a general Financial Statements responsibility for taking such steps as are The Directors are responsible for preparing the reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of Report of the Directors and the financial statements the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors financial statements for each financial year.
Under are also responsible for preparing a Directors that law they have elected to prepare the financial Report including a Business Review and Corporate statements in accordance with International Governance Statement that comply with that law Financial Reporting Standards and applicable law.
The financial statements are required by law to give Directors Responsibility Statement a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, In preparing these financial statements, the give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, Directors are required to: financial position and profit or loss of the Group included in the consolidation taken as a whole:.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply and them consistently:.
the Chairmans Statement and Report of the.
make judgements and estimates that are Directors include a fair review of the development reasonable and prudent: and performance of the business and the position.
state whether applicable accounting standards of the Group included in the consolidation taken have been followed, subject to any material as a whole together with a description of the departures disclosed and explained in the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
financial statements: and On behalf of the Board.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper P Niven N J M Tostevin accounting records which disclose with reasonable Director Director accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the 31 March 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23
