68 Grainger plc annual report and accounts 2008 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation d Investments The financial statements have been prepared on a going Investments in equity instruments that have a quoted concern basis in accordance with the historical cost market price in an active market or whose fair value can convention as modified by the revaluation of certain be reliably measured are valued at fair value under FRS 26 investments, in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
and applicable UK accounting standards.
Fair value is measured as the net asset value per unit held.
The company has taken the exemption allowed under e Investment in subsidiaries Section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 from the Investments in subsidiaries are carried at historical cost less requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
The profit for the year was 36.3m 2007: 2.1m.
On an historical cost basis the profit for the year would have f Taxation been 38.5m 2007: 1.2m.
These financial statements Corporation tax is provided on taxable profits or losses present information about the company as an individual at the current rate.
undertaking and not about its group.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities arise from timing In accordance with the exemption in FRS1 Cash Flow differences between the recognition of gains and losses Statements revised 1996, the company has not prepared in the accounts and their recognition in a tax computation.
a cash flow statement on the grounds that it has presented In accordance with FRS 19 Deferred Tax, deferred tax its own consolidated financial statements.
is provided in respect of all timing differences that have The company has taken advantage of the exemption in originated, but not reversed, at the balance sheet date that FRS 8 Related Party Transactions, from the requirement may give rise to an obligation to pay more or less tax in to disclose such transactions on the grounds that it has future.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
presented its own consolidated financial statements.
g Own shares including treasury shares b Accounting policies Transactions of the Grainger Trust Employee Trust Company The company financial statements have been prepared Limited and The Grainger Employee Benefit Trusts are under UK GAAP rather than under IFRS which has been included in the companys financial statements.
The adopted for group reporting.
The following accounting purchase of shares in the company by each trust and any policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items treasury shares bought back by the company are debited which are considered material in relation to the companys directly to equity.
c Tangible xed assets These comprise office fixtures, fittings and equipment and are carried at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the company and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets which is assessed as five years.
