Independent auditors report to the members of Grainger plc on the parent company financial statements 65 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GRAINGER PLC ON THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We have audited the parent company financial statements In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the of Grainger plc for the year ended 30 September 2008 company has not kept proper accounting records, if we which comprise the company balance sheet and the related have not received all the information and explanations notes.
These parent company financial statements have we require for our audit, or if information specified by law been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
regarding directors remuneration and other transactions We have also audited the information in the report of the is not disclosed.
remuneration committee and directors remuneration report We read other information contained in the annual that is described as having been audited.
report and consider whether it is consistent with the We have reported separately on the group financial audited parent company financial statements.
The other statements of Grainger plc for the year ended information comprises only the chairmans statement, the 30 September 2008. chief executives review, the financial review, the corporate governance report, the directors report, the corporate Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors responsibility report and the unaudited part of the report of the remuneration committee and directors remuneration The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, report and the other items listed in both contents pages.
We the report of the remuneration committee and the parent consider the implications for our report if we become aware company financial statements in accordance with applicable of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United with the parent company financial statements.
Our Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial Basis of audit opinion statements and the part of the report of the remuneration We conducted our audit in accordance with International committee and directors remuneration report to be Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, requirements and International Standards on Auditing on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has disclosures in the parent company financial statements and been prepared for and only for the companys members the part of the report of the remuneration committee and as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other made by the directors in the preparation of the parent purpose or to any other person to whom this report is company financial statements, and of whether the shown or into whose hands it may come save where accounting policies are appropriate to the companys expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all company financial statements give a true and fair view and the information and explanations which we considered whether the parent company financial statements and the necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to part of the report of the remuneration committee and give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial directors remuneration report to be audited have been statements and the part of the report of the remuneration properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act committee and directors remuneration report to be audited 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the are free from material misstatement, whether caused by information given in the directors report is consistent with fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion the parent company financial statements.
we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation The information given in the directors report includes that of information in the parent company financial statements specific information presented in the chairmans statement and the part of the report of the remuneration committee and the chief executives review that is cross-referenced from and directors remuneration report to be audited.
the review of business development and prospects section of the directors report.
66 Grainger plc annual report and accounts 2008 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GRAINGER PLC ON THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion In our opinion: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at 30 September 2008: the parent company financial statements and the part of the report of the remuneration committee and directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the directors report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 16 December 2008 Note The maintenance and integrity of the Grainger plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
