Our portfolio 35 WE SHARE EXPERTISE, RISK AND REWARDS Part of our long-term strategy is to capitalise on our expertise by providing fund management to third parties and entering into joint ventures.
Funds G:res1 is a fund which Grainger launched in November 2006.
It is a Jersey-based company that invests primarily in market-let residential properties in the UK.
Grainger is a co-investor in the fund, which is independently managed and controlled.
Investors are currently a broad mix of UK and overseas institutions.
90% of the property is held in London and the south east.
During the year, there were strategic sales of blocks of assets.
As asset and fund manager, we also recommended and subsequently implemented, breaking up blocks for sale where Kempshott Park, Basingstoke greater value could be achieved by selling each apartment individually.
We have also Completed in January 2006, Grainger managed some refurbishment activity, where it has added value.
built to let this 25 unit scheme which now belongs to the G:res1 fund.
As advisor and asset and property manager, we earn fees for delivering returns.
As a co-investor we benefit from dividends.
ResPUT The Schroders Residential Property Unit Trust is a specialist residential fund which provides investors with almost ungeared exposure to the UK residential market.
The fund is managed by Schroders Property Managers Jersey Limited and advised by Grainger.
We also manage the property on a day-to-day basis.
This fund aims to combine a high quality income yield with above average prospects for capital growth.
It has gross assets of 73m and Grainger currently holds a 23.6% stake.
The fund is valued monthly.
Capital is recycled through strategic sales and astute acquisitions.
Joint ventures Grainger GenInvest LLP was created in June 2005, when Grainger and GenInvest Housing Association formed a 50:50 joint venture to acquire a 70m portfolio of 461 residential units from the Church Commissioners.
The partnership acquired a further 1,138 units for 196m in March June 2006.
The portfolio now consists of 1,566 units in eight blocks in central London.
We stated last year that we would identify strategic opportunities to refurbish and so far we have refurbished four blocks.
We are now selling from seven blocks in order to generate cash flow.
Grainger provides asset management services while GenInvest handles day-to-day property management.
Grainger GenInvest LLP, a joint venture Curzon Park is a 10-acre site in Central Birmingham, acquired through a collaborative between Grainger plc, the UKs largest 50:50 joint venture with Development Securities plc in December 2006.
The initial intention listed private landlord, and Genesis Housing Group has invested 1m had been to develop this site over six to eight years.
We have submitted our outline planning into the Walworth Estate to refurbish application, however economic conditions are such that development on the site is likely existing homes and transform a to take place over a longer period than originally anticipated.
derelict space within the estate into Hammersmith is a large mixed use scheme in the heart of the town.
50:50 joint venture with Helical Bar plc, was awarded preferred developer status and the Conditional Development Agreement was exchanged in March 2008.
