30 Grainger plc annual review 2008 WE HAVE TALENT We pride ourselves on recruiting and retaining outstanding people who are individual experts and great team players.
We encourage an entrepreneurial culture where everyone feels they can make a significant contribution to the business, as well as be rewarded by it.
Our people make the difference.
They work together seamlessly as assets are managed through their trading cycle, from their initial purchase to their ultimate sale, creating value at each opportunity.
Others build trusted relationships, leveraging our skills and those of our partners.
We encourage our people, as specialists, to represent Grainger, now a recognised spokesperson in the marketplace.
Our culture supports individuals who want to perform and succeed.
Autonomy levels are high, where people are given the opportunity to develop and implement their own initiatives, but with a safety net of an experienced leadership team who oversee and guide.
Learning and development During the year, we implemented a new development initiative called Unleash Your Potential.
Every member of staff was given the opportunity to develop themselves, where the development would be mutually beneficial to Grainger.
Proposals ranged from spreadsheet skills courses to mini-business plans.
Climate and leadership At Grainger, we strive to continually create and improve an environment which attracts and retains high calibre staff.
This year, we conducted a significant staff survey including employees rating how they felt about the climate of Grainger, that is, the aspects of a company which best practice suggests separate high performing companies from others.
We are reviewing the results and are dedicated to making more improvements over the coming year and reporting these in our next annual report.
Shared services Throughout the operating division sections of this report, we describe the work and achievements of our property, asset and fund managers.
It is important to recognise the professional staff, who work behind the scenes in our support functions.
These staff cover a wide variety of roles, from ensuring that we comply with all relevant laws and regulations to providing IT systems capable of handling the many thousands of transactions processed every day.
Others in the team are responsible for covenant monitoring, raising finance and deal structuring.
It is critical that we seek to continually improve these areas, to maintain a competitive advantage.
our Involvement and reward We have high levels of participation in our people share schemes and also in Workplace Giving.
Many of our employees take up the benefits offered of health care for themselves and their families and travel cover.
We expect the highest standards from our staff and offer them a rewarding career with attractive remuneration in return.
F i 3 v e 5 o r % m o r e y e a r s s e r v i c e Our operations 31 % of staff turnover 08 12 07 10 06 25 05 19 % of eligible employees participating in share incentive plan 08 92 07 85 06 83 32 Grainger plc annual review 2008 1 Feldberg Strasse 12 Mannheim 2 A typical home reversion property 3 Mannheim Germany 4 Ashes Farmhouse Essex 5 Pitmaston Court Birmingham 6 Witthues 34 Germany 7 Wetherby Road Leeds 8 Tait and Benson London 9 Ivy Cottage Lawn Head, Staffordshire 10 Rohrhofer Street Mannheim 56 7 8 910
