Notes to the financial statements 9 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation b Basis of consolidation Grainger plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in i Subsidiaries the UK.
It is a public limited liability company listed on the Subsidiaries are all entities including special purposes London Stock Exchange and the address of the registered entities over which the group has the power to govern the office is given on page 74.
The group financial statements financial and operating policies generally accompanying a consolidate those of the company and its subsidiaries, shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
together referred to as the group, and equity account the The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
The parent currently exercisable or convertible are considered when company financial statements present information about assessing whether the group controls another entity.
the company and not about its group.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group.
They are fide-consolidated The group financial statements have been prepared in from the date control ceases.
accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, IFRIC interpretations and those Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies on transactions between group companies are eliminated.
The company has elected to prepare Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed its company financial statements in accordance with UK where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies GAAP.
These are presented on pages 67 to 72. adopted by the group.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless ii Goodwill and impairment otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods The purchase method of accounting is used to account for presented in the group financial statements.
the acquisition of subsidiaries by the group.
The cost of the acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, The group financial statements have been prepared under equity instruments issued plus costs directly attributable the historical cost convention except for the following assets to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and liabilities which are stated at their fair value: investment and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination property, derivative financial instruments and financial are measured initially at their fair values at the date of interest in property assets.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of The preparation of financial statements in conformity with an acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of net IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates identifiable assets including intangible assets of the acquired and assumptions that affect the application of accounting entity at the date of acquisition.
If the cost of the acquisition policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary income and expenses.
Although these estimates are based acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the on managements best knowledge of the events and income statement.
amounts involved, actual results ultimately may differ from Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included in those estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisition of joint ventures judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and associates is included in investments in joint ventures and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial and associates.
statements are disclosed in note 2.
10 Grainger plc annual report and accounts 2008 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies continued Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the c Segmental reporting purpose of impairment testing and is tested annually for The groups risks and rates of return are affected impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment predominantly by differences between the property asset losses.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
types it owns and manages.
A business segment is a Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the distinguishable group of assets and operations, reflected carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
in the way that the group manages its business, that is iii Joint ventures and associates subject to risks and returns that are different from those Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities of other business segments.
the group has joint control, established by contractual The group has identified six such segments as follows: agreement.
Associates are all entities over which the Core portfolio: group has significant influence but not control, generally Retirement solutions: accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Fund management residential investments: Investments in joint ventures and associates are accountedDevelopment: for by the equity method of accounting and are initially European tenanted residential: and recognised at cost.
The groups investment in joint ventures European Development.
and associates includes goodwill net of any accumulated All of the above segments are UK based except European impairment loss identified on acquisition.
tenanted residential which has its assets and tenants based The groups share of its joint ventures and associates in Germany and European development which has its assets post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income based in the Czech Republic.
More detail is given relating to statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements each of the above segments, and their geographical split in in reserves is recognised in reserves.
The cumulative postthe chief executives review on pages 10 to 17 of the review acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying section of this document and in note 4. amount of the investment.
d Foreign currency translation Unrealised gains on transactions between the group and its joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent i Functional and presentation currency of the groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
The Items included in the financial statements of each of the accounting policies of joint ventures and associates have groups entities are measured using the currency of the been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with primary economic environment in which the entity operates the policies adopted by the group.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is iv Transactions with minority interests the groups functional and presentation currency.
The group applies a policy of treating transactions with minority interests as transactions with parties external to the ii Foreign currency transactions group.
Disposals to minority interests result in gains or losses Foreign currency transactions are translated at the foreign for the group that are recorded in the income statement.
exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
On acquisition of minority interests, where the consideration Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign paid exceeds the relevant share acquired of the carrying currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into value of net assets of the subsidiary the difference is sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
recorded in equity as a deduction from retained earnings.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions are recognised in the income statement.
Notes to the financial statements 11 1 Accounting policies continued iii Foreign operations Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, it is probable that the future economic benefits associated are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at with the item will flow to the group and the cost of the item the balance sheet date.
Revenues and expenses of foreign can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance operations are translated at average foreign exchange rates costs are charged to the income statement during the for the relevant period.
financial period in which they are incurred.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on property, plant and investment in foreign operations are taken to the translation equipment is calculated using the straight-line method to reserve.
allocate their cost less residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: e Investment property Land Nil Property that is held for long-term rental yields or for capital Fixtures, fittings and equipment Five years appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by the companies in the consolidated group, is classified as The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, investment property.
and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Investment property is measured initially at its cost, including g Financial interest in property assets related transaction costs.
Financial interest in property assets is initially recognised at After initial recognition, investment property is carried at fair fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently carried at value.
Fair value is based on active market prices, adjusted, fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the net change if necessary, for any difference in the nature, location or in value is recorded through the income statement as condition of the specified asset.
If this information is not follows: i the carrying value of the asset is increased by the available, the group uses alternative valuation methods such effective interest rate and ii the carrying value of the asset as recent prices on less active markets or discounted cash is revised to the net present value of the revised cash flows flow projections.
arising from the instrument using the effective interest rate Subsequent expenditure is included in the carrying amount applicable at acquisition.
The change in value recorded of the property when it is probable that future economic through the income statement is shown on the line interest benefits associated with the item will flow to the group income from financial interest in property assets.
and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All Differences between the revised cash flows using the other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the effective interest rate applicable at acquisition compared income statement during the financial period in which to revised cash flows using a year end effective interest they are incurred.
rate, assessed as the rate available in the market for an Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the instrument with a similar maturity and credit risk, are taken groups investment properties are included in the income through equity.
When gains or losses in the assets are statement of the period in which they arise.
realised, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the income statement as gains f Property, plant and equipment and losses from financial interest in property assets.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost h Inventories trading properties less subsequent depreciation and impairment.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition Tenanted residential properties held for sale in the normal of the items.
course of business are shown in the financial statements at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes legal and surveying charges incurred during acquisition together with improvement costs.
Net realisable value is the net sale proceeds which the group expects on sale of a property with vacant possession.
12 Grainger plc annual report and accounts 2008 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies continued Land and property held within the development segment k Employee benets of the business, including house-building sites, are shown i Defined contribution pension scheme in the financial statements at the lower of cost and net Obligations for contributions to defined contribution realisable value.
Cost represents the acquisition price pension schemes are recognised as an expense in the including legal and other professional costs associated income statement in the period to which they relate.
with the acquisition together with subsequent development ii Defined benefit pension scheme costs net of amounts transferred to costs of sale.
Net The group currently contributes to a defined benefit pension realisable value is the expected net sales proceeds of the scheme that was closed to new members and employee developed property.
The full deficit in the scheme was Where residential properties are sold tenanted or where recognised in the balance sheet as at 1 October 2004. land is sold without development, net realisable value is An actuarial valuation of the scheme is carried out every the current market value net of associated selling costs.
However, the valuation is updated annually i Cash and cash equivalents by a qualified actuary for the purpose of determining the amounts to be reflected in the groups financial statements Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits under IAS 19. held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months The liability recognised in the balance sheet is the present or less, and bank overdrafts.
value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of scheme assets.
j Income tax There are no current or past service costs as the scheme Income tax on the profits or losses for the periods presented is closed to new members and employee contributions.
comprises both current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the Interest on pension scheme liabilities and the expected expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year return on pension scheme assets will be reflected in the using rates applicable at the balance sheet date.
Tax payable income statement each year.
Actuarial gains and losses will upon the realisation of revaluation gains recognised in prior be reflected in the consolidated statement of recognised periods is recorded as a current tax charge with a release of income and expense each year.
iii Share-based compensation Deferred income tax is provided using the balance sheet The group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based liability method.
Provision is made for temporary differences compensation plans comprising awards under a long-term between the carrying value of assets and liabilities in the incentive scheme LTIS and a save as you earn SAYE consolidated financial statements and the values used for scheme.
The fair value of the employee services received in tax purposes.
Deferred income tax is calculated after taking exchange for the grant of shares and options is recognised account of any indexation allowances and capital losses.
The as an employee expense.
The total amount to be expensed amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected over the vesting period is determined by reference to the manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount fair value of the shares and options granted, excluding the of assets and liabilities and is calculated using rates enacted impact of any non-market vesting conditions.
Non-market or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date in the tax vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the jurisdiction in which the temporary differences arise.
number of options that are expected to vest.
At each Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent balance sheet date, the group revises its estimates of the that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises against which the assets can be used.
The deferred income the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the tax assets and liabilities are only offset if there is a legally income statement with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
enforceable right of set off.
Notes to the financial statements 13 1 Accounting policies continued Awards that are subject to a market-based performance Where the group grants a lifetime lease on an investment condition are valued at fair value using the Monte Carlo property and receives from the lessee an upfront payment simulation model.
Awards not subject to a market-based in respect of the grant of the lease, the upfront payment is performance condition are valued at fair value using the treated as deferred rent in the balance sheet.
This deferred Black Scholes valuation model.
rent is released to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the projected term of the lease.
At each year end When options are exercised the proceeds received net of any the projected term of the lease is revised on an actuarial directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share basis and the remaining deferred rent is released to the capital nominal value and share premium.
income statement on a straight-line basis over this revised l Revenue recognition lease term.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration ii Group as lessee received or receivable and is stated net of sales taxes and The group occupies a number of its offices as a lessee.
Revenue is recognised as follows: After a review of all of its occupational leases, the directors i Rental and similar income have concluded that all such leases are operating leases.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a Payments, including prepayments, made under operating straight-line basis over the lease term on an accruals basis.
leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis ii Service charge and management fee income over the period the lease.
Service charge and management fee income is recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered.
The net present value of ground rents payable is, in the opinion of the directors, immaterial.
Accordingly, ground Other income is accounted for as follows: rent expenses are taken to the income statement on a i Income from property trading straight-line basis over the lease term.
Profits or losses arising from the sale of trading and investment property are included in the income statement n Financial instruments where contract completion has taken place and are Derivatives calculated by reference to their carrying value and are The group uses derivative instruments to help manage its included in operating profit.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the ii Income from investments group does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when The derivatives are recognised initially at fair value.
the shareholders rights to receive payment have been Subsequently, the gain or loss on remeasurement to fair established.
value is recognised immediately in the income statement, m Leases unless the derivatives qualify for cash flow hedge accounting i Group as lessor in which case any gain or loss is taken to equity in a cash The net present value of ground rents receivable is, in the flow hedge reserve.
opinion of the directors, immaterial.
Accordingly, ground In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the group is rents receivable are taken to the income statement on a required to document in advance the relationship between straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Properties the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The leased out to tenants are included in the balance sheet as group is also required to demonstrate that the hedge will either investment property or as trading property under be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
testing is reperformed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
14 Grainger plc annual report and accounts 2008 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies continued When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
remains in equity and is recognised when the forecasted q Trade receivables transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
for impairment in trade receivables is established when Fair value estimation there is objective evidence that the group will not be able The fair value of interest rate swaps is based on a discounted to collect all amounts due.
The amount of the provision is cash flow model using quoted market information.
the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities the effective interest rate.
The movement in the provision Derecognition is the point at which the group removes an is recognised in the income statement.
asset or a liability from its balance sheet.
The groups policy r Trade payables is to derecognise financial assets only when the contractual right to the cash flows from the financial asset expires.
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and The group also derecognises financial assets that it transfers subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective to another party provided the transfer of the assets also interest method.
transfers the right to receive cash flows from the financial s Provisions asset.
When the transfer does not result in the group Provisions are recognised when a the group has a present transferring the right to receive cash flows from the obligation as a result of a past event and b it is probable financial asset but it does result in the group assuming that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the a corresponding obligation to pay cash flows to another obligation and c a reliable estimate can be made of the recipient, the financial asset is derecognised.
The group derecognises financial liabilities only when its obligation is discharged, is cancelled or expires.
t Dividends Dividend distributions to the companys shareholders are o At fair value through profit or loss financial assets recognised as a liability in the group financial statements At fair value through profit or loss financial assets are in the period in which the dividends either are approved by included in the balance sheet at fair value with changes in the companys shareholders or are appropriately authorised fair value taken through the income statement.
At fair value and no longer at the discretion of the group.
through profit or loss financial assets are managed, and their performance is evaluated, on a fair value basis in accordance u Assets held for sale with the groups documented investment policy.
Where a group of assets are to be disposed of by sale together or as a single group, they are classified as a disposal p Borrowings group.
The disposal group is classified as held for sale as Borrowings are initially recognised at cost, being the fair defined by IFRS 5 when they are available for sale in their value of consideration received, net of transaction costs present condition and the sale is highly probable and incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised expected to be completed within one year from the date cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of of classification.
transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Notes to the financial statements 15 1 Accounting policies continued v Acquisition of and investment in own shares Amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations effective The group acquires its own shares to enable it to meet its from I July 2009 and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate obligations under the LTIS.
No gain or loss is recognised in Financial Statements effective from 1 January 2009. profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of The amendment to both of these standards is still subject the companys own shares.
The acquisition cost of the shares to endorsement by the European Union.
Some of the is debited to an investment in own shares reserve within key changes are: i the requirement to measure all retained earnings.
When shares are issued to employees consideration at fair value at acquisition date, with any under the LTIS, a transfer is made at the average cost of the subsequent changes e. g. contingent consideration shares issued between the investment in own shares reserve remeasured at fair value through income: ii the expensing and the share-based payments reserve all within retained of all transaction costs: and iii stepped acquisitions to be earnings see note 34. accounted for as a disposal of existing interests and an acquisition of an enlarged interest, giving rise to potential Where the group buys back its own shares as treasury profits or losses on disposal of the existing interest: and shares it adopts the accounting as described above.
Where it subsequently cancels them, issued share capital is reducedIFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, by the nominal value of the shares cancelled and this same Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
amount is transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
IFRIC 14 provides guidance on assessing the limit in IAS 19 on the amount of the surplus that can be recognised w Impact of standards and interpretations in issue as an asset.
It also explains how the pension asset or but not yet effective liability may be affected by a statutory or contractual At the date of authorisation of these financial statements minimum funding requirement.
The group will apply there are a number of standards, amendments and IFRIC 14 from 1 October 2008 but it is not expected interpretations to existing standards that have been to have any impact on the groups accounts.
published but which are not yet effective and which have The following interpretations to existing standards have not been early adopted by the group.
These are as follows: been published and are mandatory for the groups IFRS 8 Operating Segments effective from 1 January accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 2009.
IFRS 8 amends the current segmental reporting or later periods but are not expected to have any material requirements of IAS 14 and aligns segment reporting impact on the financial statements of the group: with the requirements of the US standard SFAS 131.
IFRIC 12 It requires a management approach to be adopted applies to contractual arrangements whereby a private so that segment information is presented on the same sector operator participates in the development, basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
This financing, operation and maintenance of infrastructure standard will apply to the group from 1 October 2009 for public sector services.
IFRIC 12 is not relevant to the and is expected to impact upon the group by requiring groups operations as the group does not provide public additional disclosures in the annual financial statements: sector services: and Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs effective from IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes.
This amendment requires an entity to that where goods or services are sold together with a capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the customer loyalty incentive, the arrangement is a multipleacquisition, construction or production of a qualifying element arrangement and the consideration receivable asset as part of the cost of the asset.
A qualifying asset is from the customer is allocated between the components one that takes a substantial period of time to get ready of the arrangement using fair values.
IFRIC 13 is not for use or sale.
The option of immediately expensing relevant to the groups operations because none of the these borrowing costs is removed.
This amendment will group companies operate any loyalty programmes.
apply to the group from 1 October 2009 and its impact is currently being assessed:
