16 Grainger plc annual report and accounts 2008 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions The groups significant accounting policies are stated in Investment property in the Germany portfolio with a value note 1 above.
Not all of these accounting policies require of 354.6m 279.6m has been valued by an external management to make subjective or complex judgements or independent valuer, Cushman & Wakefield LLP as at estimates.
The following is intended to provide further detail 30 September 2008.
Investment property with a value as relating to those accounting policies that management at 30 September 2008 of 133.9m is held by FRM AG, a consider critical because of the level of complexity, company acquired by the group on 4 April 2008.
The last judgement or estimation involved in their application and external valuation of the FRM portfolio was carried out as their impact on the consolidated financial statements.
However, the value of the portfolio has been reviewed by the directors as at 30 September Investment property valuations 2008 and, in their opinion, the fair value was not materially The group, after review by the directors, used the valuations different from the book value.
Property assets with a fair performed by its own in-house qualified surveying team value as at 30 September 2008 of 2.6m were valued by to value its own UK-based residential investment property the directors.
A structured sample of our inThe net deficit on valuation of investment property in the house valuations was checked by Allsop LLP, an external Germany portfolio as at 30 September 2008 was 8.6m independent valuer.
Allsop LLP has provided the directors and this has been taken through the income statement.
with the following opinion on the valuation of the groups Whilst in the UK valuers rely predominantly on recent UK investment property, Investment property held in the transactional evidence for similar properties to value core residential and retirement solutions portfolios with a investment property, in Germany investment property value of 203.2m was valued as at 30 September 2008 is valued using an income capitalisation approach under by Graingers in-house surveyors.
These valuations were which net rental income is discounted to a net present reviewed and approved by the directors.
Both methodologies are permitted under IAS 40. undertaken a comprehensive review of the directors valuation and they are satisfied with the process by The group also has investments in joint ventures and which the in-house valuations were conducted.
As part associates which include investment property.
Investment of the review, Allsop LLP valued approximately 50% of the property held in Grainger GenInvest LLP and Grainger core residential portfolio and approximately 33% of the GenInvest No.
2 2006 LLP, in both of which Grainger has a retirement solutions portfolio, independently of the group.
50% share, were valued by an external valuer, Martin Angel In view of the low volumes of recent market transactional FRICS, of Allsop LLP.
He has provided the directors of those evidence and the guidance to valuers under GN5 of the entities with the following opinion.
The valuations of the RICS Valuation Standards, Allsop LLP has stated to the portfolios were made in accordance with the requirements of directors that valuations of some individual dwellings may the RICS Valuation Standards sixth edition and International be subject to a higher than normal level of uncertainty.
The valuation of each portfolio was on However, when taken in aggregate, and reported as such, the basis of market value, subject to the assumption that Allsop LLP has concluded that the large sample size assists the properties would be sold individually, in their existing in the smoothing out of individual differences in value with condition, and subject to any existing leases or tenancies.
the result that they have a high degree of confidence in the In aggregate, across both entities, the valuation of the totals reported by the directors in the core and retirement investment property was 283.2m.
Allsop LLP is satisfied solutions portfolios.
that, in respect of this valuation market value is the same as fair value.
The valuers opinion of market value was primarily The net deficit on valuation of the core and retirement derived using comparable recent market transactions on solutions portfolios as at 30 September 2008 was 34.5m arms length terms.
and this has been taken through the income statement.
Notes to the financial statements 17 2 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions continued However, although there has been reasonable activity in Valuing the large number of properties in our portfolio is the market for properties subject to Regulated Tenancies, a significant task and for this reason is undertaken on an there have been lower than usual volumes of recent market external inspection basis only.
Invariably, when our in-house transactional evidence, in particular for vacant properties valuations are compared to those of the external valuer, and properties subject to Assured Shorthold Tenancies.
In over 95% of the valuations are within a small acceptable line with the guidance to valuers under GN5 of the RICS tolerance.
Where the difference is more significant we Valuation Standards, Allsop LLP has stated to the directors discuss this with the valuer to determine the reasons for that valuations of some individual dwellings may be subject the difference.
Typically the reasons vary but it could be, for to a lower level of confidence than is normal.
However, example, that further or better information about internal when taken in aggregate, and reported as such, Allsop LLP condition is available or that respective valuers have placed has concluded that individual differences in value are likely a different interpretation on comparable sales.
Once such to be smoothed out across the whole portfolio and would reasons have been identified we and the valuer agree the not materially affect our valuation.
appropriate valuation that should be adopted.
The group has a 21.63% interest in G:res which has invested As the groups business model is to sell trading stock on in investment property.
Valuations of 100% of the G:res vacancy, net realisable value is the net sales proceeds which portfolio were carried out jointly as at 31 December 2007 the group expects on sale of a property with vacant and 30 June 2008 by external valuers, Allsop LLP and DTZ possession.
A net realisable value provision of 2.7m has Debenham Tie Leung Limited.
Within the valuations, blocks been made at 30 September 2008 to write down properties of flats have been valued on a block basis rather than as expected to be sold ultimately at vacant possession value.
As the current intention of G:res is to For properties expected to be held beyond the immediate dispose of flats individually, valuation on an individual property future, this provision allows for some further decline in basis is more in accordance with the requirements of IAS 40. property prices but assumes that house prices will increase Grainger has therefore estimated the uplift in value on average by 4% per annum over the 10-year period from appropriate to a valuation on an individual property basis 1 October 2007 to 30 September 2017.
This is based on rather than a block basis for flats and has also made our review of various independent statistics which show an assessment of the further downward movement in the that since 1979 the rolling 10-year average for house price market between 1 July and 30 September.
It has concluded inflation has not fallen below 4%.
The group does sell some that its share of the net effect of these two adjustments property as investment sales which is where the property is not material to the group accounts and therefore no is sold with the tenant still in situ.
A net realisable value adjustment has been made to the G:res valuation as at provision of 0.4m has been made at 30 September 2008 30 June 2008. against projected investment sales.
The group has a 23.6% share in Schroders Residential Land and property held within the development segment Property Unit Trust ResPUT.
Investment property in this of the business, including house-building sites, are shown Fund was valued by Allsop LLP as at 30 September 2008. in the financial statements at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the expected net sales Net realisable value of trading property proceeds of the developed property and a provision is made The groups residential trading properties are carried in the when, and to the extent that, total projected project costs balance sheet at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
exceed total projected project revenues.
In assessing net realisable value the group uses valuations Where land is sold without development, net realisable value carried out by its own in-house qualified surveying team.
is the current market value net of associated selling costs.
A structured sample of our in-house valuations was checked Decisions regarding whether to develop a site or to sell a site by Allsop LLP, an external independent valuer.
Allsop LLP undeveloped are made by the directors based on market has provided the directors with the same opinion on the conditions prevailing at the time.
The assumptions adopted valuation of the groups UK trading property as they gave as at 30 September 2008 are based upon the current on the groups UK investment property see above.
18 Grainger plc annual report and accounts 2008 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions continued intentions of the directors.
In addition, estimates at Income taxes 30 September 2008 of project profitability are based on There are some transactions and calculations that involve assumptions regarding projected build costs and sales a degree of estimation and judgement and whose tax proceeds for those sites where development is expected to treatment cannot be determined until a formal resolution occur.
In some cases these projections are made without the has been reached with the relevant tax authorities.
In such benefit of planning permission having been agreed.
The cases, the groups policy is to be prudent in its assessment of assumptions made may or may not be borne out in practice.
the tax benefit that may accrue in line with the contingent It is possible therefore that the net realisable value provision asset rules set out in IAS 37.
Where the final outcome of required should be more than or less than that made.
these matters is different from the amounts initially A charge of 9.2m has been made to the 2008 income recorded, such differences will impact on the income and statement to reduce the book value of development stock deferred tax amounts reflected in subsequent accounting to net realisable value.
Valuation of financial interest in property assets Goodwill impairment The valuation is based on an assessment of the future cash Goodwill can arise when a portfolio is acquired on the flows that will arise from our financial interest and on the acquisition of a corporate entity accounted for as a business effective interest rate used to discount those cash flows.
The goodwill arises from the difference The valuation methodology adopted is set out in note 1 g between how deferred tax is calculated for accounting above.
The key assumptions affecting the carrying value purposes and the value ascribed to it in the acquisition are house price inflation and the effective interest rate.
Generally, the value of goodwill is supported by the fact that the taxation cash flows will arise in future The assumptions adopted with regard to house prices are years and the discounted value of these cash flows is the same as those set out under net realisable value of significantly less than the tax actually provided.
A change of 1% to average generating unit for impairment testing is the portfolio house price inflation over the 10-year period from 1 October acquired in the relevant entity and a goodwill impairment 2007 to 30 September 2017 would either increase the loss arises if the carrying amount of the portfolio exceeds valuation by 5.3m or reduce the valuation by 4.9m.
the value in use which is determined as the present value We have considered the effective interest rate to adopt of the future cash flows arising.
for valuation of our interest as at 30 September 2008.
We The goodwill impairment charge in the core business in have concluded that the effective interest rate on original 2008 relating to taxation as described above was 6.3m.
recognition of the asset should also be used in the valuation The key sensitivities relating to the goodwill impairment as at 30 September 2008.
A 1% change to the discount testing are the discount rate used and the expected hold rate would either increase the carrying value by 9.7m or period for the assets concerned.
reduce the carrying value by 8.5m.
The discount rate used is the post-tax 2007 weighted Distinction between investment and trading property average cost of capital of 6.38%, a post-tax rate as the cash The group considers the intention at the outset when each flows being discounted are tax payments.
A 1% increase in property is acquired in order to classify the property as either the discount rate would reduce the impairment charge by an investment or a trading property.
Where the intention is 0.7m whilst a 1% decrease would increase the impairment to either trade the property or where the property is held charge by 0.8m.
for immediate sale upon receiving vacant possession within The hold periods used for the assets, and over which the the ordinary course of business, the property is classified as cash flows have been discounted, are dependent upon trading property.
Where the intention is to hold the property the classification of assets between investment property for its long-term rental yield and or capital appreciation, and trading stock and the different property tenures.
the property is classified as an investment property.
For instance, regulated properties are likely to be sold on vacancy whereas an assured shorthold property held as Notes to the financial statements 19 2 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions continued an investment property is more likely to be held for longii Continued support of the groups banks term investment gains and rental income.
The hold periods We maintain a regular and constructive dialogue with our used in the impairment calculations range from 10 years to banking syndicate and keep them informed of how the 16 years with an average of 14.5 years.
If the average hold company is performing.
Two important issues to consider period was changed by one year the impairment charge in relation to our banks are the renewal of facilities and would either be reduced or increased by 0.3m covenant compliance.
In addition to the above, goodwill of 3.3m arose in 2007 Facilities At 30 September 2008 the group had headroom on the acquisition of the CAT portfolio in the retirement of 370m on its bank facilities, 303m of which was on solutions business.
The cash-generating unit is the CAT the UK core facility.
The first significant debt maturity is portfolio and a comparison has been made of the carrying a facility of 400m due in June 2010 which is more than value of this portfolio and the value in use based on the 12 months after the date of these financial statements.
present value of future cash flows.
The value in use does The headroom at 30 September 2008 represents 76% not support the carrying value of the goodwill and therefore of this first debt maturity.
it has been fully impaired in the 2008 income statement.
Covenant compliance Our core facility has two The key sensitivity relating to the impairment charge is the covenants covering loan to value LTV ratio and interest discount rate used.
A pre-tax discount rate of 9% has been cover.
Under the first, it is possible that a LTV of 80% could adopted in the calculations.
To support the full amount of lead to default of the facility agreement.
At 70% LTV goodwill would require a discount rate of 7.37% or less.
purchasing restrictions apply although to a large extent To support any goodwill would require a discount rate of the business is currently operating under the restrictions by 8.06% or less.
reducing its expenditure on new acquisitions.
LTV on the core facility was 66% at 30 September 2008 although this Going concern was reduced to 64% shortly after the year end by the early The directors are required to make an assessment of the conversion of 78% of our convertible bond.
We are able groups ability to continue to trade as a going concern.
to take action to help keep the LTV ratio down, the main Because of the difficult market conditions prevailing this action being asset sales.
We have estimated that if we are assessment has been subject to more uncertainties than are able to maintain sales proceeds in 2009 at the same level as usual.
The directors have given this matter due consideration achieved in 2008, then UK asset values as used for covenant and have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the purposes will have to fall by approximately 24% in the year group financial statements on a going concern basis.
The ended 30 September 2009 for the 80% LTV level to be two main considerations were as follows: reached.
This is before any other actions that management i Strength of the groups cash flow could take to improve the LTV position.
The group has generated 213m of cash in 2008 from its Under the second covenant test, our interest cost must net rents and other income, the sales of property and other be covered 1.25 times by net cash flow before interest.
working capital movements net of overhead costs.
The As at 30 September 2008 the ratio stood at 2.2 times.
nature of the groups property assets is that the majority are This covenant is calculated by reference to the previous unmodernised and of relatively low average value.
They are 12 months results and, given the cash inflows that have therefore generally affordable and provide the opportunity already been achieved to date and our expectations in for a purchaser to maintain or increase value through relation to sales to 30 September 2009 the directors are refurbishment.
These factors help the group to sustain confident that, in the absence of unforseen circumstances, demand when properties become vacant.
In addition, this covenant will be met at the next two testing points, properties can be sold without waiting for vacancy and 31 March 2009 and 30 September 2009. these investment sales assist the group in generating cash flows.
The group has demonstrated, through the 15% increase in sales proceeds achieved in 2008 from its core and retirement solution portfolios, that it can sell assets even in more difficult market conditions.
