Our portfolio 33 WE HAVE A DIVERSE PORTFOLIO Core At the heart of our business are 7,300 regulated properties worth 1bn.
These are tenanted assets which are bought at a discount to the vacant possession value, so have an inherent reversion the difference between the tenanted value and the vacant possession value.
The tenant has a right to live at the property for the rest of their life.
We collect the typically sub-market rent, which is set by a rent officer, and then sell on vacancy to realise the reversion.
There have been no new regulated tenancies made since 1989, so our tenants are on average getting older.
We therefore have predictable rents and vacancies from these low-value, geographically spread, liquid assets, producing cash flows of over 100m per year and high trading margins.
These assets are very liquid as they can be sold tenanted.
This provides us with an ideal stock from which to generate additional cash as required.
Also in our core are a further 190m of other units including market let tenancies assured shorthold tenancies, agricultural tenancies, garages and ground rents.
Retirement solutions Our retirement solutions business is worth in excess of 500m.
The largest part of this portfolio, averaging 184,287 full vacant possession, is home reversion assets.
Under a home reversion plan, an owner sells Grainger part or all of their home in return for a cash lump sum or a series of payments which is dependent upon the vacant possession value of the property, the ages of the individuals and the proportion being sold.
This creates a reversion similar to a regulated tenancy, but typically with a deeper discount as there is no rent.
The occupiers can then remain in the property for the rest of their lives, after which, the property is sold, to realise the reversion.
Distribution, product innovation and regulation are the keys to success in this market.
Graingers equity release products are FSA Financial Services Authority regulated and we insist that all of our customers receive impartial professional advice from a qualified third party.
Recognising that equity release is not the solution for all, this division also owns approximately 1,000 retirement units.
CHARM a financial asset with returns based on reversionary mortgages also sits within this area.
Fund management and residential investments Grainger GenInvest LLP is a 50:50 partnership between Grainger and Genesis Housing Group which was initially formed in June 2005 and owns some 300m of assets.
Grainger provides asset management services and Genesis oversee day-to-day management of the properties.
G:res1 was launched in November 2006 and is a Jersey-based company that invests primarily in market let properties in the UK.
Grainger co-invests current ownership 21.6%, property, asset and fund manages.
Total assets are currently worth over 400m.
Schroders ResPUT is a specialist residential fund which is ungeared.
Grainger advises the fund and provides property management services.
The portfolio is worth 72m and Grainger owns a 23.6% stake.
Development Our development portfolio consists of a number of key sites, details of which can be found on page 16.
Our focus is on large scale, residential led, mixed use sites, where we can work effectively with partners: local authorities and communities, joint venture partners and all other relevant stakeholders.
The market value of our portfolio is some 142m including joint ventures.
Continental Europe Our German residential portfolio, with some 6,900 units, is worth over 400m.
The majority of the portfolio is in the more affluent south western areas of the country.
We believe in time there will be a growth in demand for home ownership of quality housing.
We are different from the pure financial investors who have also entered this market in recent years because of our long-term view.
The relatively low cost per unit provides potential for significant future capital growth.
We also have a joint venture which is developing a site in Zizkov, Prague, worth 10.6m.
