Our operations 29 WE ARE INTEGRATED Teamwork across our divisions is vital to our success.
By sharing our skills and experience, we can derive the best returns from our assets.
Acquisitions & Disposals Grainger acquires all types of residential property, throughout the UK.
Acquisitions are made from a wide variety of sources, ranging from single assets at auction through to portfolios sourced from long-standing trusted contacts.
We have a professional team which is able to execute technically complex transactions.
Equally, these expert skills apply to our disposals of assets.
Our knowledge of local areas teamed with an awareness of changing markets and lateral thinking allows us to capitalise effectively on growth areas, or sell at the right time to achieve the best returns.
Asset Management Performance driven asset management is key to our strategy.
We add value by minimising void periods and arrears as well as recommending and managing improvements to increase rentals or enhance capital values and marketability.
Having applied these skills successfully to our own portfolio for years, we now apply them to portfolios that we manage for others.
The cash flows we receive for our asset management activities are an important income stream which is not wholly reliant on the UK house price inflation.
We currently provide asset management for Schroders ResPUT, Grainger GenInvest a 50:50 joint venture between Grainger and Genesis Housing Group and the Grainger launched G:res1 residential fund.
Fund Management Fund management is an integral part of Graingers strategy.
It adds a further layer of leverage to our operations, enabling us to generate fees from the skills of the people we employ.
We believe that our perspective as a property owner and manager gives us a unique and valuable insight.
The additional layers of fees we can generate enhance the return on capital employed.
Property Management Property management covers the day-to-day operational running of the properties including rent reviews and renewals, repairs and maintenance, block management, lettings and customer care.
Again, we manage properties for others, enhancing our returns.
In total, we manage some 20,000 UK properties for ourselves and others.
We are passionate about raising standards and improving the perception of residential property management in the UK.
Therefore, we constantly strive to improve our processes and services.
Sales & Valuations Our team of professionals cover all areas of the UK which ensures that we have a localised knowledge of our portfolios.
This is important in determining strategic acquisitions, accurate valuations and best price on disposal.
Our sales team have increased sales proceeds this year by 15%.
