36 Grainger plc annual review 2008 WE ARE NOT VOLUME HOUSE BUILDERS Our core and retirement solutions portfolios are geographically spread and are purchased at significant discounts to their vacant possession values.
These factors protect us to an extent from certain risks in the housing market.
Unlike a volume house builder, we do not attempt to sell many properties in one location at the same time and our properties do not suffer from cluster risk.
Furthermore, due to King Street, Hammersmith, London the discounts at which we purchase our properties and the long average period we hold The 50:50 joint venture partnership the assets before sale, our margins are typically 45% to 50%.
This means that in the current of Grainger Helical Bar were selected market, we can ensure our properties are competitively priced, to keep cash flow coming as preferred developer by the London into the business.
Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham in 2008 for this mixed use scheme Our development business focuses on building residential led mixed use schemes.
in the heart of Hammersmith.
We promote the benefits of good design by creating schemes that take into account the way people live.
Our development activities fall into two main categories: Residential led mixed use schemes where we work with partners to leverage our respective skills and knowledge, to deliver complex developments.
Examples of this include the Curzon Park and Hammersmith joint ventures described on the previous page.
Strategic Land where we take a long-term view, setting out with an initial objective to achieve planning, then to develop, often in a number of phases.
We currently own a significant 520-acre site, Newlands Common, West Waterlooville in Hampshire.
During the year, we obtained planning permission for 1,550 new homes and 100,000 sq.
m. Wards Corner, Haringey, London of commercial space.
We originally signed an option agreement for this land in 1995.
Grainger was selected by the London Borough of Haringey and the Bridge New Deals for Communities NDC in 2004 as the preferred development partner to regenerate the area around Seven Sisters underground station.
OUR SKILLS ARE TRANSFERABLE ABROAD In Germany we now own or have a majority interest in almost 7,000 residential properties worth more than 500m.
We approach our investment in Germany for the long term as we believe that, at some point, an increase in home ownership will occur in this nation which lags others across Europe.
Grainger is now well placed to benefit from this.
Our ownership is substantially in the more affluent areas of the country, in the south and west.
Our property and asset management skills are ensuring that whilst we hold these Longstrops, Martlesham, Ipswich Longstrops is 130 acres of land which assets, we maximise the value by minimising voids, identifying strategic refurbishment is designated for an extension of the opportunities and effectively collecting rents.
Our staff advise on asset management, existing settlement of Kesgrave in Suffolk.
We believe we now have a critical mass and intend Grainger has made a representation to to seek third-party equity investment, in line with our strategy.
the local development framework process and Suffolk Coastal District Council We have recently moved offices, from Mannheim to Frankfurt.
is currently reviewing potential sites.
Our portfolio 37 1 Highbrow 1 2 Harborne 2 Mannheim Germany 3 Dibden House Maida Vale, London 4 Cottage on Ranton Estate Staffordshire 5 Walworth London 6 Carless Avenue 3 4 Harborne 7 Ravenhurst Avenue Harborne 8 Homewell Havant, Hampshire 9 The Lodge Pitmaston, Birmingham 10 Hill Top Farm Staffordshire 5 6 78 9 10
