Notes to the financial statements 9 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation b Basis of consolidation Grainger plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in i Subsidiaries the UK.
It is a public limited liability company listed on the Subsidiaries are all entities including special purposes London Stock Exchange and the address of the registered entities over which the group has the power to govern the office is given on page 74.
The group financial statements financial and operating policies generally accompanying a consolidate those of the company and its subsidiaries, shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
together referred to as the group, and equity account the The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
The parent currently exercisable or convertible are considered when company financial statements present information about assessing whether the group controls another entity.
the company and not about its group.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group.
They are fide-consolidated The group financial statements have been prepared in from the date control ceases.
accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, IFRIC interpretations and those Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies on transactions between group companies are eliminated.
The company has elected to prepare Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed its company financial statements in accordance with UK where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies GAAP.
These are presented on pages 67 to 72. adopted by the group.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless ii Goodwill and impairment otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods The purchase method of accounting is used to account for presented in the group financial statements.
the acquisition of subsidiaries by the group.
The cost of the acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, The group financial statements have been prepared under equity instruments issued plus costs directly attributable the historical cost convention except for the following assets to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and liabilities which are stated at their fair value: investment and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination property, derivative financial instruments and financial are measured initially at their fair values at the date of interest in property assets.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of The preparation of financial statements in conformity with an acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of net IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates identifiable assets including intangible assets of the acquired and assumptions that affect the application of accounting entity at the date of acquisition.
If the cost of the acquisition policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary income and expenses.
Although these estimates are based acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the on managements best knowledge of the events and income statement.
amounts involved, actual results ultimately may differ from Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included in those estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisition of joint ventures judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and associates is included in investments in joint ventures and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial and associates.
statements are disclosed in note 2.
