34 Grainger plc annual review 2008 WE ARE AN INDUSTRY LEADER Our core portfolio of primarily regulated tenancies is one of a kind.
It has been built up over a significant number of years and encompasses over 7,000 units spread across the UK.
Our success comes from the scale of our portfolio as well as our ability to derive value from it.
The regulated tenancies are valued at a discount to their vacant possession values.
The total vacant possession value of our regulated tenancies is 1.4bn.
This means the reversion, the difference between the vacant possession value and the value these assets are valued at in our market value balance sheet is 0.4m.
When the tenants leave, the assets are sold and the reversion is realised.
House price changes affects different areas of the country at different times and rates.
The knowledge we gain from owning as many properties, geographically spread, means that we can and do buy and sell assets at the best time, to realise best value.
We retain a majority of assets in the South East, where there is Graingers Bridgewater business has an undersupply of housing.
Another key strength of our core portfolio is the average vacant now won Best Home Reversion possession value, which at 30 September 2008 stood at 190,000, compared to the national Provider for three consecutive years.
In total, some 66% of this portfolio has a vacant possession value of under 250,000.
The portfolio therefore has limited exposure to top end volatility.
Many properties offer refurbishment opportunities and this keeps them in demand.
Retirement solutions has grown significantly and we expect this to continue as more people seek to release cash to supplement pensions, improve lifestyles or realise dreams.
We seek to provide choice in our home reversion products some people prefer a lump sum, others prefer a series of cash payments.
Some find comfort in an early vacancy guarantee and others wish to share in the upside, should house price inflation exceed certain levels.
These options are just one reason for the success of our Bridgewater business.
Grainger now owns almost 5,000 home reversion assets, with an average vacant possession value for the whole property of 184,287.
Again, we have limited exposure to top end volatility.
We also appreciate that equity release is just one solution to retirement living and it is our aim to provide more options.
We have over 1,000 specific retirement apartments, within retirement complexes which are very popular and as a result have high occupancy rates.
Property services within Grainger, prides itself on customer care.
We appreciate that our assets are also the homes of thousands of people.
We believe that it is this appreciation, combined with our owner manager perspective that sets us apart from others.
Our dedicated property management staff are based in seven offices throughout the UK, giving us national coverage as well as local knowledge.
We ensure that our tenants know how to get in touch with their property manager to resolve issues or arrange for repairs to be carried out.
Our A Grainger commissioned report property managers knowledge of their portfolio enables them to understand the needs of the to contribute to the Rugg Review.
We strive to raise professionalism in the industry.
All of our property managers complete our in-house training to understand how to balance the needs of our customers with expectations for financial returns.
Some also study professional qualifications.
As a market leading spokesperson on landlord and tenant issues, our opinion is sought and valued.
We believe that a truly professional private rented sector PRS is one potential solution to the current and expected housing shortage in the UK.
As the largest listed residential landlord, we are ideally placed to both assist in this change and to benefit from it.
We are active in promoting the PRS, through our membership of the British Property Federation.
We also have strong proactive relationships with the Chartered Institute of Housing, Association of residential Letting Agents and the Association of Residential Managing Agents.
We also fundamentally believe that residential assets should be recognised as an investment class in their own right.
This has been starting to happen over recent years.
