Basis of audit opinion Independent Auditors Report We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing to the members of BBA Aviation plc UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures We have audited the parent company financial statements of BBA Aviation plc for in the parent company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Balance Sheet and the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of related notes 1 to 12.
These parent company financial statements have been the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of BBA Aviation adequately disclosed.
plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 and on the information in the directors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent presentation of information in the parent company financial statements.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this Opinion report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In our opinion: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the parent of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008: company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the parent Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in company financial statements.
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Deloitte LLP We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial London, United Kingdom statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 25 February 2009 Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the Directors Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
