Basis of Consolidation Accounting policies The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the parent company and all subsidiary undertakings under the acquisition method of accounting.
Basis of Accounting The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or sold during the year are The financial statements have been prepared using the historical cost convention included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of adjusted for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal as appropriate.
Control is achieved accounting policies adopted are set out below.
where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis in an investee so as to obtain benefits from activities.
accordance with the rationale set out in the directors statement of going concern Goodwill on acquisitions, being the excess of the fair value of the consideration on page 70 of the Directors Report.
paid over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, is capitalised The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International and tested for impairment on an annual basis.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions in the Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and year ended 31 December 1997 and earlier periods was written off to reserves in therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
They have also been accordance with the accounting standards then in force.
Goodwill arising on prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting acquisitions between 1 January 1998 and 31 December 2003 was amortised on a Standards Board.
straight-line basis over its useful economic life, with a maximum life of 20 years, again Three interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting in accordance with the accounting standards then in force.
As permitted by current Interpretations Committee are effective for the current period.
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 accounting standards, the goodwill previously written off to reserves or amortised The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their through the profit and loss account has not been reinstated in the balance sheet.
The remaining two adopted in the current year Associated undertakings are those investments other than subsidiary are: IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions: and IFRIC 12 Service undertakings where the Group is in a position to exercise a significant influence, Concession Arrangements.
The adoption of these Interpretations has not led to typically through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the any changes in the Groups accounting policies.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the The adoption of IFRIC 14 had the effect of clarifying the extent to which a post-acquisition reserves of all such companies.
surplus on a defined benefit pension scheme can be recognised in the balance sheet.
The impact of this guidance on these financial statements was to limit to nil Investments the 5.1 million surplus on the UK Income and Protection Plan and not recognise an In the Groups financial statements, investments in associated undertakings are asset in the balance sheet, as any economic benefit or recovery via refund or stated at cost plus the Groups share of post-acquisition reserves less provision reduction in future contributions is not sufficiently certain.
In addition, the Group has elected to adopt early the following in advance of its effective date: IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs effective for accounting periods Foreign Currencies beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The revisions made to IAS 23 have no impact Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange on the Groups accounting policies.
The principal change to the Standard, which at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign was to eliminate the previously available option to expense all borrowing costs currencies at the balance sheet date are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing as incurred, has no impact on these financial statements because it has always at that date.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to been the Groups accounting policy to capitalise borrowing costs incurred on the date of transaction is recognised in the income statement.
The income statements of overseas operations are translated into Sterling At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following at the average exchange rates for the year and their balance sheets are translated Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial into Sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
All exchange statements were in issue but not yet effective: differences arising on consolidation are taken to equity.
All other translation differences are taken to the income statement, with the exception of differences IFRS 1 and IAS 27 amended : Cost of Investment in Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled on foreign currency borrowing and derivative instruments to the extent that they Entity or Associate are used to provide a hedge against the Groups equity investments in overseas IFRS 2 Amended : Share-Based Payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations operations, which are taken to equity together with the exchange difference on IFRS 3 Revised Jan 2008 : Business Combinations the net investment in those operations.
IFRS 8: Operating Segments Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the IAS 1 Amended : Presentation of Financial Statements closing rate.
IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Amended : Financial Instruments IAS 32 and IAS 1 Amended : Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations arising Operating Profit on Liquidation Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring costs and after the share of results of associates but before investment income and finance costs.
IFRIC 13: Customer Loyalty Programmes IFRIC 15: Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedge Accounting IFRIC 16: Hedges of a Net Investment in Overseas Operations Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group comprise interest rates swaps, IFRIC 17: Distribution of Non-Cash Assets cross-currency or basis swaps and foreign exchange contracts.
All such instruments are used for hedging purposes to manage the risk profile of an underlying exposure The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations of the Group in line with the Groups risk management policies.
All derivative in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
Recognition of gains or Group, except for the impact on accounting for business combinations when the losses on derivative instruments depends on whether the instrument is designated amendments to IFRS 3 become effective, which for the Group will be the year as a hedge and the type of exposure it is designed to hedge.
76 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2008 The effective portion of gains or losses on cash flow hedges are deferred Revenue Recognition in equity until the impact from the hedged item is recognised in the income Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, statement.
The ineffective portion of such gains and losses is recognised in the and represents amounts receivable for goods supplied and services provided by the income statement immediately, and is included in the other gains and losses Group excluding intercompany transactions, sales by associated undertakings and line of the income statement.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly Within the engine overhauls business, turnover and associated profit are to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the recognised on a percentage of completion basis once the terms of the contract have effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity in the foreign currency been agreed with the customer and the ultimate profitability of the contract can be translation reserve.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised determined with reasonable certainty.
immediately, and is included in the operating profit line of the income statement.
Gains and losses deferred in the foreign currency translation reserve are recognised Research and Development Expenditure in profit or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.
Research expenditure is charged against income in the year in which it is incurred.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments classified as An internally-generated intangible asset arising from the Groups development fair value through profit or loss FVTPL and those that do not qualify for hedge expenditure is recognised only if the asset can be separately identified, it is probable accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise, and are included that the asset will generate future economic benefits and the development costs of in the operating profit line of the income statement.
Any interest earned or paid on the asset can be measured reliably.
financial instruments at FVTPL is charged to net interest.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 17.
Post-Retirement Benefits During the year the Group changed its definition of net debt to exclude the Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an fair value of cross-currency swaps, as these amounts are excluded from the expense as they fall due.
definition of net debt for bank covenant calculation purposes, and the directors For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost is determined using therefore believe that this is a more meaningful representation of the Groups the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out position relative to its financial covenants.
The fair value of cross-currency swaps is annually on 31 December.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the included in other receivables or other payables within the balance sheet.
period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside profit or loss and presented in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Financial Instruments Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
period until the benefits become vested.
Financial assets are accounted for at the trade date.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised Cash and cash equivalents past service costs, and reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and deemed deposits, and other resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value short-term highly-liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Retirement benefit scheme contribution levels are determined by valuations undertaken by independent qualified actuaries.
Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as Property, Plant and Equipment reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Property, plant and equipment is stated in the balance sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairments.
Depreciation is provided on the cost of Financial liabilities and equity property, plant and equipment less estimated residual value and is calculated on a Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance straight-line basis over the following estimated useful lives of the assets: of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of Land not depreciated its liabilities.
Buildings 40 years maximum Plant and machinery including essential Bank borrowings commissioning costs 3-18 years Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on Tooling, vehicles, computer and office equipment are categorised within plant settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual and machinery.
basis to the profit and loss account using effective interest method and are added Finance costs which are directly attributable to the construction of major to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in items of property, plant and equipment are capitalised as part of those assets.
The the period in which they arise.
commencement of capitalisation begins when both finance costs and expenditures for the asset are being incurred and activities that are necessary to get the asset Trade payables ready for use are in progress.
Capitalisation ceases when substantially all the activities Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
that are necessary to get the asset ready for use are complete.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
77 Inventory Accounting policies Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises the cost of raw materials and an appropriate proportion of labour and overheads in the case of work in progress and finished goods.
Cost is calculated using the first in first Impairment of Assets out method in the Flight Support segment, and weighted average method in the At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying value of its tangible and Aftermarket Services and Systems segment.
Provision is made for slow moving or intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have obsolete inventory as appropriate.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss.
Taxation Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit taxation deferred due to temporary differences between the treatment of certain to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite life is tested items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Current tax is calculated at tax rates for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may which have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their and the corresponding tax bases in the computation of taxable profit, and is present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates No provision is made for temporary differences on unremitted earnings of of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates where the Group has control and the If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated reversal of the temporary difference is not foreseeable.
to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cashThe carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable recognised immediately.
profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the Deferred tax is calculated at tax rates which have been enacted or substantially asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable enacted at the balance sheet date and that are expected to apply in the period amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited to recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty treated as a revaluation increase.
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a Intangible Assets material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next Licences are shown at amortised cost.
Amortisation provided on the cost of licences financial year, are discussed below.
The judgements used by management in the is calculated on a straight-line basis over the useful life of the licences.
application of the Groups accounting policies in respect of these key areas of Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item of computer estimation are considered to be the most significant.
hardware, the software is treated as an intangible asset.
Computer software is capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific Impairment of goodwill, intangible and tangible fixed assets software.
Amortisation is provided on the cost of software and is calculated on a Determining whether goodwill, intangible or tangible fixed assets are impaired straight-line basis over the useful life of the software.
requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the The Group makes an assessment of the fair value of intangible assets arising on goodwill has been allocated or the individual assets.
The value in use calculation acquisitions.
An intangible asset will be recognised as long as the asset is separable requires the entity to estimate future cash flows expected to arise from the cashor arises from contractual or other legal rights, and its fair value can be measured generating unit or asset and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present reliably.
Amortisation is provided on the fair value of the asset and is calculated on a value.
The carrying amount of goodwill, intangible and tangible fixed assets at the straight-line basis over its useful life.
balance sheet date was 526.8 million, 112.3 million and 407.7 million respectively.
Details regarding the goodwill and tangible fixed asset carrying value and Share-Based Payments assumptions used in carrying out the impairment reviews are provided in The Group operates a number of cash and equity-settled share-based notes 8 and 9. compensation plans.
The fair value of the compensation is recognised in the income statement as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period Pensions and other post-retirement benefits is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted and calculated Determining the present value of future obligations of pension and other using the valuation technique most appropriate to each type of award.
These post-retirement benefit schemes requires an estimation of future mortality rates, include Black-Scholes calculations and Monte Carlo simulations.
For cash-settled future changes in employee benefits and length of service.
These assumptions are options, the fair value of the option is revisited at each balance sheet date.
For both determined in association with qualified actuaries.
The net pension liability related cash and equity-settled options, the Group revises its estimates of the number of to defined benefit type schemes at the balance sheet date was 23.3 million.
As at options that are expected to become exercisable at each balance sheet date.
the balance sheet date the update of the actuarial valuation of the UK Income and Protection Plan indicates a surplus of 5.1 million.
In accordance with IAS 19, IFRIC 14 Leases and the Groups accounting policies, the surplus has been restricted and no asset Where assets are financed by lease agreements that give rights similar to ownership has been recognised in the balance sheet, as any economic benefit or recovery finance leases, the assets are treated as if they had been purchased and the leasing via refund or reduction in future contributions is not sufficiently certain.
Details commitments are shown as obligations to the lessors.
The capitalisation values of regarding the carrying value and assumptions used in arriving at the carrying values the assets are written off on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the periods of are provided in note 19. the leases or the useful lives of the assets concerned.
The capital elements of future leases are recorded as liabilities, while the interest elements are charged to the income statement over the period of the leases to produce a constant rate of charge on the balance of capital payments outstanding.
For all other leases operating leases the rental payments are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lives of the leases.
