Share-Based Payments Accounting Policies The Company operates a number of cash and equity-settled share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the compensation is recognised in the income statement as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period Basis of Accounting is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted and calculated The financial statements have been prepared using the historical cost convention using the valuation technique most appropriate to each type of award.
These adjusted for the revaluation of certain fixed assets and in accordance with applicable include Black-Scholes calculations and Monte Carlo simulations.
For cash-settled United Kingdom accounting standards.
options, the fair value of the option is revisited at each balance sheet date.
For both The principal accounting policies are set out below.
They have all been applied cash and equity-settled options, the Company revises its estimates of the number consistently throughout the year and preceding year.
of options that are expected to become exercisable at each balance sheet date.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements and has not produced a cash flow statement.
Tangible Fixed Assets The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 Plant and machinery, with the exception of tooling and motor vehicles, was Related Party Transactions and has not reported transactions with fellow professionally valued at 31 December 1988 on an existing use basis.
that date are stated in the balance sheet at cost.
Land and buildings are stated at cost or valuation performed in 1988.
Other tangible fixed assets are stated in the Investments balance sheet at cost.
Depreciation is provided on the cost or valuation of tangible In the Companys financial statements, investments in subsidiary and associated fixed assets less estimated residual value and is calculated on a straight line basis undertakings are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
over the following estimated useful lives of the assets: Treasury Land not depreciated Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange Buildings 40 years maximum at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign Plant and machinery currencies at the balance sheet date are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing including essential commissioning costs 3 18 years at that date.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of transaction is recognised in the income statement.
Tooling, vehicles, computer and office equipment are categorised within plant and Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group comprise interest rates machinery in note 3 of the accounts.
swaps, cross currency or basis swaps and foreign exchange contracts.
All such The revaluation reserve consists of the surpluses on the revaluation of land and instruments are used for hedging purposes to manage the risk profile of an buildings to their market value for existing use and on the revaluation of plant and underlying exposure of the Group in line with the Groups risk management machinery to net current replacement cost.
The directors are not aware of any policies.
All derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
material change to the value of these assets since the last revaluation.
Recognition of gains or losses on derivative instruments depends on whether the instrument is designated as a hedge and the type of exposure it is designed Leases to hedge.
Where assets are financed by lease agreements that give rights similar to ownership The effective portion of gains or losses on cash flow hedges are deferred in finance leases, the assets are treated as if they had been purchased and the leasing equity until the impact from the hedged item is recognised in the income commitments are shown as obligations to the lessors.
The capitalisation values of statement.
The ineffective portion of such gains and losses is recognised in the the assets are written off on a straight line basis over the shorter of the periods of the income statement immediately.
leases or the useful lives of the assets concerned.
The capital elements of future lease Gains or losses on the qualifying part of net investment hedges are recognised obligations are recorded as liabilities, while the interest elements are charged to the in equity together with the gains and losses on the underlying net investment.
profit and loss account over the period of the leases to produce a constant rate of The ineffective portion of such gains and losses is recognised in the income charge on the balance of capital payments outstanding.
For all other leases operating leases the rental payments are charged to the Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments that do not profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lives of the leases.
qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Taxation Pensions and other Post-Retirement Benefits The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account The Company provides pension arrangements to the majority of full time taxation deferred due to timing differences between the treatment of certain items employees through the Companys defined benefit scheme.
It is not possible for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is provided in full on all liabilities.
to identify the share of underlying assets and liabilities in this scheme which is In accordance with FRS 19, deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is attributable to the Company on a consistent and reasonable basis.
Therefore the regarded that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax Company has applied the provisions in FRS 17 to account for the scheme as if it assets and liabilities have not been discounted.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the sale or The costs of pension plans and other post-retirement benefits are charged revaluation of fixed assets unless, at the balance sheet date, a binding commitment to the profit and loss account so as to spread the costs over employees working to sell the asset has been entered into and it is unlikely that any gain will qualify for lives within the Company.
The contribution levels are determined by valuations rollover relief.
undertaken by independent qualified actuaries.
