Statement of Directors responsibilities Directors Report The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors Going concern and Statement of Directors responsibilities Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Going concern Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each The Group has $1,175 million of banking facilities of which $860 million was drawn financial year.
The directors are required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group across them at 31 December 2008.
These facilities are subject to cross-default.
financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Further details relating to these facilities are provided in note 16 to the Consolidated adopted by the European Union.
The Group financial statements are also required Financial Statements on page 91.
The primary $900 million facility does not expire by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and until 2012.
The Groups banking facilities are subject to two main financial covenants: Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
maximum net debt to underlying EBITDA of 3.5 times and minimum net interest International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial statements cover of 3.0 times.
In the primary $900 million facility the Group has the option, present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial having made acquisitions of more than $100 million in a given window, of increasing performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects the net debt to EBITDA covenant to 4.25 times at the 31 December 2008 testing date of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and to 4.0 times at the 30 June and 31 December 2009 dates respectively.
After this and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the period the covenant would return to 3.5 times.
This acquisition spike is not International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and incorporated in the two smaller facilities.
Due to the acquisition of Hawker presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation Beechcraft in 2008 this is now available in the Group.
In the event of a weakening will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting of sterling against other currencies, the Group has the ability to test the net debt Standards.
However, directors are also required to: to EBITDA covenant at average exchange rates.
The Directors expect the Group properly select and apply accounting policies: to comply with these covenants for the foreseeable future.
Details of the Groups present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides financial risk management policies are disclosed in note 17 to the Consolidated relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and Financial Statements on page 92. provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements The principal risks and uncertainties to which the Group is exposed relate to the in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular number of hours of flying activity, principally in business and general aviation, but transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and also to a lesser extent in commercial and military aviation.
Flying hours largely dictate financial performance.
the drivers of revenue, namely fuel volumes in Signature, aircraft movements in ASIG, The directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in engine overhaul cycles in Engine Repair and Overhaul and demand for components accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United in Legacy Support and APPH.
Further details of these risks and uncertainties are Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent company financial provided on page 10. statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of The directors have carried out a critical review of the Groups 2009 budget and the company.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: medium-term plans, with due regard for the risks and uncertainties to which the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Group is exposed, the uncertain economic climate and the impact that this could make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and have on trading performance.
The key assumptions used in constructing the budget state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject were that: to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
Signature, ASIG and Engine Repair & Overhaul are impacted by a further The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that reduction in flying activity: disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company Legacy Support continues to grow supported by new licences and its exposure and enable them to ensure that the parent company financial statements comply to the military sector: and with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets APPH is relatively stable with weakness in business and general aviation offset of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and by sales on military programmes.
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Based on this review, the directors believe that the Company and the Group The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable and financial information included on the Companys website.
Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared on a going United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial concern basis.
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
A procedure is in place to enable the directors to provide the confirmation regarding audit information required under s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
This confirmation is set out on page 55 of the Directors Report Additional Disclosures.
The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and b the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Signed on behalf of the Board Simon Pryce Andrew Wood Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 25 February 2009 25 February 2009 70 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2008
