Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 140 Notes to the Company Accounts For the year ended 31 March 2008 29 Profit for the year As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the Profit and Loss Account of the Company is not presented as part of these financial statements.
The profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders dealt with in the financial statements was 13,758,000 2007: 54,393,000.
The Company had no employees in the year 2007: none.
Amounts paid to the Companys auditors in respect of services to the Company, other than the audit of the Companys financial statements, have not been disclosed as the information is required instead to be disclosed on a consolidated basis.
30 Accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the financial statements: i Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and under the historical cost accounting rules except that other fixed asset investments and derivative financial instruments have been stated at fair value.
Under Section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8, Related Party Transactions from the requirement to disclose related party transactions on the grounds that it has presented its own consolidated financial statements.
ii Turnover and cost of sales Turnover is stated net of VAT and comprises fees and commissions receivable from participating interests.
Fees from fund management relate to base and performance fees receivable in respect of asset management together with procurement fees.
Performance fees are recognised when it is likely that performance criteria have been met.
iii Tangible fixed assets These assets comprise head office fixtures, fittings and equipment and are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the costs of assets over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method.
iv Investments Other fixed asset investments are designated as available for sale and are shown at fair value.
v Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are stated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
vi Leases Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised and the outstanding future lease obligations are shown in creditors.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the Profit and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
vii Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred taxation is recognised, without discounting, for all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19, Deferred Taxation.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable.
viii Own shares held by Company Purchase of own shares held by Company are debited directly to equity.
ix Own shares held by ESOP Trusts Transactions of the Group-sponsored ESOP Trusts are included in the financial statements.
In particular, the Trust's purchases of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 141 30 Accounting policies continued x Financial instruments Investments Other investments are non-derivative investments that are designated as available for sale.
As permitted, these were previously held at cost less impairment owing to information on which to assess fair value being unavailable.
At the current year end, these investments are shown at fair value.
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year Debtors are recognised at invoiced values less provisions for impairment.
A provision for impairment of debtors is established where there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the agreed terms of the receivables concerned.
Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year Debtors falling due after more than one year are held at amortised cost.
Cash at bank and in hand Cash at bank and in hand consist of cash in hand, deposits with banks and other short term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Creditors due within one year are non-interest bearing and are recognised at invoiced amount.
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year These creditors consist of interest bearing borrowings, which are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost with any difference between the amount initially recognised and the redemption value being recognised in the Profit and Loss Account over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest rate basis.
Derivative financial instruments The Company uses derivative financial instruments to help manage its interest rate risk.
These derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently re-measured.
The gain or loss on remeasurement is recognised immediately in the Profit and Loss Account, unless the derivatives qualify for hedge accounting as cashflow hedges in which case the effective element of the gain or loss is recognised directly through reserves in a hedging reserve.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Company would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking account of current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
The Companys derivative financial instruments are shown in these accounts at fair value as derived by JC Rathbone Associates Limited, financial risk consultants, based on market prices, estimated future cashflows and forward rates as appropriate.
Other derivative instruments From time to time, the Company invests in derivatives to mitigate or enhance its exposure to a particular class or spectrum of property assets and related businesses.
Such instruments are accounted for initially at fair value with subsequent adjustment to fair value being reflected through the Profit and Loss Account.
xi Share-based payments The fair value of equity rights is estimated using the Black-Scholes and binomial models at the date of grant to the Directors and staff and is dependent on factors such as the exercise price, expected volatility, option price and risk free interest rate.
The fair value is then amortised through the Profit and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Expected volatility is determined based on the historical share price volatility market price for the Company on the grant date over a period matched to the expected life of the awards.
