Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 140 Notes to the Company Accounts For the year ended 31 March 2008 29 Profit for the year As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the Profit and Loss Account of the Company is not presented as part of these financial statements.
The profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders dealt with in the financial statements was 13,758,000 2007: 54,393,000.
The Company had no employees in the year 2007: none.
Amounts paid to the Companys auditors in respect of services to the Company, other than the audit of the Companys financial statements, have not been disclosed as the information is required instead to be disclosed on a consolidated basis.
30 Accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the financial statements: i Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and under the historical cost accounting rules except that other fixed asset investments and derivative financial instruments have been stated at fair value.
Under Section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8, Related Party Transactions from the requirement to disclose related party transactions on the grounds that it has presented its own consolidated financial statements.
ii Turnover and cost of sales Turnover is stated net of VAT and comprises fees and commissions receivable from participating interests.
Fees from fund management relate to base and performance fees receivable in respect of asset management together with procurement fees.
Performance fees are recognised when it is likely that performance criteria have been met.
iii Tangible fixed assets These assets comprise head office fixtures, fittings and equipment and are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the costs of assets over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method.
iv Investments Other fixed asset investments are designated as available for sale and are shown at fair value.
v Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are stated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
vi Leases Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised and the outstanding future lease obligations are shown in creditors.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the Profit and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
vii Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred taxation is recognised, without discounting, for all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19, Deferred Taxation.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable.
viii Own shares held by Company Purchase of own shares held by Company are debited directly to equity.
ix Own shares held by ESOP Trusts Transactions of the Group-sponsored ESOP Trusts are included in the financial statements.
In particular, the Trust's purchases of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
