Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 102 Notes to the Accounts For the year ended 31 March 2008 1 Accounting policies i Basis of preparation The Groups financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Board in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee as adopted by the European Union IFRS and those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements are presented in Sterling and have been prepared on an historical cost basis except that investment and development properties, other non-current investments and certain financial instruments as described in section xvii below, have been stated at fair value.
The interim report presented by the Group during the year was the first to be prepared in accordance with IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting and included a full revaluation of the property portfolio as at 30 September 2007.
The report also included a restatement of the Balance Sheet as at 30 September 2006 using a directors valuation as at that date, though this was based upon the valuation exercises conducted by external valuers.
As a result of increased valuations being incorporated at 30 September 2006, gains previously calculated as at 31 March 2007 were in part incorporated as part of that valuation.
Therefore the comparatives for the year ended 31 March 2007 have been restated to reclassify a gain on disposal of 3,440,000 previously presented in the Income Statement to the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
The effect of the restatement was as follows: Consolidated Income Statement Year ended 31 March 2007 000 Profit before tax before restatement 51,638 Effect of restatement 3,005 Restated profit before tax 48,633 The restatement may be analysed as follows: Profit from sale of non-current property assets 3,440 Gain on revaluation of investment properties 435 Effect of restatement on profit before tax 3,005 Effect of restatement on deferred tax 902 Effect of restatement on profit for the financial year 2,103 Effect of restatement on earnings per share from continuing operations pence : Basic 1.7 Diluted 1.6 Effect of restatement on earnings per share from total operations pence : Basic 1.6 Diluted 1.6 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense Year ended 31 March 2007 000 Total recognised income and expense for the financial year before restatement 186,113 Effect of restatement Restated total income and expense for the financial year 186,113 The restatement may be analysed as follows: Gain on revaluation of development properties 3,005 Tax on income and expense recognised directly in equity 902 Effect of restatement on net income recognised directly in equity 2,103 Effect of restatement on profit for the financial year 2,103 Effect of restatement on total recognised income and expense for the financial year Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 103 1 Accounting policies continued Consolidated Balance Sheet There was no impact upon the Groups Balance Sheet and basic and diluted net asset value per share as at 31 March 2007.
Consolidated Cashflow Statement The change affected the reconciliation of profit for the financial year to net cashflow from operating activities, but had no impact on the main subtotals and totals presented in the Cashflow Statement.
IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and the complementary amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures have been adopted for the first time in these accounts, introducing new disclosures relating to financial instruments but having no impact on the classification or valuation of these instruments.
At the date of approval of these financial statements, it is not anticipated that any standards or interpretations in issue but not yet effective will have a material impact on the accounts.
ii Significant judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial statements under IFRS requires the Board to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies, the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenue and expense during the reporting period.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgements that are not readily apparent from other sources.
However, the actual results may differ from these estimates.
The measurement of fair value constitutes the main area of judgement exercised by the Board in respect of the Groups results.
In relation to the Groups investment and development properties, the Board has relied upon the external valuations carried out by professionally qualified valuers in accordance with the Appraisal and Valuation Standards of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Copies of the valuation reports of Savills Commercial Limited and Jones Lang LaSalle Limited, which together account for 98.4% of these categories of non-current assets, and of Christie Co, which values the investment properties within Quercus, currently the Groups principal joint venture, are contained on pages 82 to 85.
In relation to the Groups investment properties, the key assumptions relate to the amount and timing of future income streams, anticipated maintenance costs and other landlords liabilities and an appropriate yield.
Valuers also have regard to market evidence generated by transactions involving similar properties.
In relation to development properties, the valuers have regard to the relevant legal rights and synergies, the discount rate appropriate to the current stage of the masterplan, the implementation strategy, the timing and conditions of planning consent, future development costs, the likely completed sales values, cost and value inflation and current market dynamics.
In respect of derivative financial instruments, the Board has relied on the valuation carried out by JC Rathbone Associates Limited, financial risk consultants, and the basis for this exercise is referred to below in section xvii of this note and in note 21.
The Board has also exercised its judgement in relation to the recognition of certain deferred tax assets, which is discussed in further detail in note 6iv, and in assessing the recoverability of trade receivables by reference to their age and the ability of debtors to pay.
Other areas of judgement, risk and uncertainty which are relevant to an understanding of these results and the Groups financial position are referred to in the Operating and Financial Review.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised, if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
iii Basis of consolidation The Groups financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries, together referred to as the Group, and equity account the Groups interest in its joint ventures and associate.
The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date it ceases.
A joint venture is an undertaking in which the Group has a long term interest and over which it exercises joint control.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence but not control over financial and operating policies.
The Group equity accounts for its share of net profit after tax of its joint ventures and associate through the Income Statement.
Movements in the fair value of development properties within joint ventures are shown within equity.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of cashflow hedges within joint ventures less any related tax is also recognised directly in equity.
All other changes, which include the Groups share of adjustments to the fair value of its joint venture and associate investment properties, are recognised in the Income Statement.
The Groups interest in the net assets of joint ventures and the associate is included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Where an asset is transferred to an existing joint venture or the Group disposes of an interest in a subsidiary, the Group recognises a share of the profit equivalent to the interest it has sold to an external party.
All such transactions occur at fair value.
Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 104 Notes to the Accounts continued 1 Accounting policies continued iv Foreign currency Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Operating income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates.
The year end and average rates used for these purposes were as follows: Year end Average 1 2008 2007 2008 2007 France 1.26 1.47 1.42 1.49 United States $1.99 $1.96 $2.01 $1.89 Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are reflected in the translation reserve and released to the Income Statement upon the disposal of the foreign operation.
v Revenue and cost of sales Revenue is stated net of VAT and comprises rental income, proceeds from sales of trading properties, income from hotel operations, fees, commissions and other income.
Rental income from investment and development properties leased out under operating leases is recognised in the Income Statement on a straightline basis over the term of the lease.
Contingent rents which comprise turnover rents are recognised as income in the periods in which they are earned.
Rent reviews are recognised when such reviews have been agreed with tenants.
Lease incentives are recognised as an integral part of the net consideration for the use of the property and amortised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, or the period to the first tenant break, if shorter.
Property operating costs are expensed as incurred including any element of service charge expenditure not recovered from tenants.
Sales of trading properties are recognised on the unconditional exchange of contracts by the balance sheet date.
Income from hotel operations represents income receivable from the Plaza Hotel, Wembley, prior to the redevelopment of the site, for which outline planning permission has been obtained.
Fees from fund management relate to base and performance fees receivable in respect of asset management together with property procurement fees.
Performance fees are recognised when it is likely that performance criteria have been met.
All other fees are recognised on a receivable basis.
Other income comprises income receivable from property derivative instruments entered into by the Group, tenant lease surrender premiums, insurance commission, car parking receipts, property management fees and miscellaneous income.
vi Purchase and disposal of properties held as non-current assets Property purchases and sales are recognised in the accounts on the date of unconditional exchange or where an exchange is conditional, on the date that conditions have been satisfied.
Profits or losses arising on disposal are calculated by reference to the carrying value of the asset at the date of the last revaluation, adjusted for subsequent capital expenditure.
The acquisition or disposal of shares in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures where properties constitute the only or main asset are accounted for as property transactions unless the fair values attributed to other assets and liabilities within the entity differ from their carrying value.
vii Impairment The Groups assets are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If such indication becomes evident, the assets recoverable amount is estimated and an impairment loss recognised whenever the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its net selling price and its value-in-use.
The value-in-use is determined as the net present value of the future cashflows expected to be derived from the asset, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Any impairment of financial assets is based on the original effective interest rate attributable to the financial asset on acquisition.
viii Employee benefits Pensions Contributions to employees personal plans are charged to the Income Statement as incurred.
Share-based payment schemes The fair value of equity rights is estimated using the Black-Scholes and binomial models at the date of grant to Directors and staff and is dependent on factors such as the exercise price, expected volatility, option price and risk free interest rate.
The fair value is then amortised through the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Expected volatility is determined based on the historic share price volatility market price for the Company on the grant date over a period matched to the expected life of the awards.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest, except where forfeiture is only due to the share price not achieving the threshold for vesting.
ix Capitalisation of borrowing costs Net borrowing costs in respect of capital expenditure on properties under development or undergoing refurbishment are capitalised.
Interest is capitalised using the Groups weighted average cost of borrowing from the commencement of development work until the date of practical completion.
The capitalisation of finance costs is suspended if there are prolonged periods when development activity is interrupted.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 105 1 Accounting policies continued x Tax Tax is included in the Income Statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case the related tax is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year using tax rates applicable at the balance sheet date.
Tax payable upon the realisation of revaluation gains recognised in prior periods is recorded as a current tax charge with a release of the associated deferred taxation.
Deferred tax is provided on all temporary differences, except in respect of investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amount used for taxation purposes.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates applicable at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
xi Discontinued operations In accordance with IFRS 5, Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, the loss from discontinued operations is shown in the Income Statement net of tax.
xii Investment properties Investment properties are properties owned or leased by the Group which are held either for long term rental growth or for capital appreciation or both.
Investment properties are initially recognised at cost including related transaction costs and valued bi-annually by professionally qualified external valuers.
Properties held under operating leases are accounted for as investment properties where the other criteria for recognition are met.
Such operating leases are accounted for as if they are finance leases.
Additions to investment properties consist of costs of a capital nature and in the case of investment properties under development, capitalised interest.
Investment properties are independently valued bi-annually by external valuers at market value.
The valuations are prepared by considering the aggregate of the net annual rents receivable from the properties and where relevant, associated costs.
A yield which reflects the specific risks inherent in the net cashflows is then applied to the net annual rentals to arrive at the property valuation.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment properties are included in the Income Statement of the year in which they arise.
When the Group redevelops an existing investment property for continued future use as an investment property, the property remains an investment property and is not reclassified.
xiii Development properties Properties acquired with the intention of redevelopment are classified as development properties and stated at fair value in accordance with IAS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment.
Changes in fair value are recognised through equity in the revaluation reserve.
However, a deficit on revaluation of a development property is recognised in the Income Statement to the extent it exceeds the surplus in the revaluation reserve relating to a previous revaluation of that property.
Similarly, a surplus on revaluation is credited to the Income Statement to the extent of a deficit previously charged.
All costs directly associated with the purchase and construction of a development property are capitalised.
When development properties are completed, they are reclassified as investment and any accumulated balance on revaluation is transferred to retained earnings.
Development properties, which are independently valued bi-annually by external professional valuers, are stated at estimated market value on completion less estimated costs to complete.
xiv Leases Group company is the lessee a Operating leases leases of assets where substantially all risks and rewards of ownership are retained by another party, the lessor, are classified as operating leases.
Payments, including prepayments, made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
b Finance leases leases of assets where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the lease commencement at the lower of the fair value of the property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in current and non-current borrowings.
The finance charges are charged to the Income Statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
Investment properties acquired under finance leases are subsequently carried at their fair value.
Group company is the lessor a Operating leases properties leased out to tenants under operating leases are included in investment properties in the Balance Sheet with rental income recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
b Finance leases when assets are leased out under a finance lease, the present value of the minimum lease payments is recognised as a receivable.
The difference between the gross receivable and the present value of the receivable is recognised as unearned finance income.
Lease income is recognised over the term of the lease using the net investment method before tax which reflects a constant periodic rate of return.
Where only the buildings element of a property lease is classified as a finance lease, the land element is shown within operating leases.
Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 106 Notes to the Accounts continued 1 Accounting policies continued xv Owner-occupied properties, plant and equipment Fixtures, fittings and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the useful life of these assets estimated at between three and five years.
xvi Trading properties Trading properties are properties acquired or developed and held for sale and are shown at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of trading properties is determined on the basis of specific identification of their individual costs.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less estimated costs to completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
xvii Financial instruments Non-current receivables Non-current receivables are held at amortised cost.
Other non-current investments Other non-current investments are non-derivative investments that are designated as available for sale and are shown at fair value.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised at amortised cost.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established where there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the agreed terms of the receivables concerned.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash in hand, deposits with banks and other short term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost with any difference between the amount initially recognised and the redemption value being recognised in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest rate basis.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and are recognised at amortised cost.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its interest rate risk.
These financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently remeasured.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the Income Statement, unless the derivatives qualify for hedge accounting as cashflow hedges, in which case the effective element of the gain or loss is recognised directly through equity in a hedging reserve.
The Groups derivative financial instruments are shown in these accounts at fair value as derived by JC Rathbone Associates Limited, financial risk consultants, based on market prices, estimated future cashflows and forward rates as appropriate.
Other derivative instruments From time to time, the Group invests in derivatives to mitigate or enhance its exposure to a particular class or a spectrum of property assets and related businesses.
Such instruments are accounted for initially at fair value with subsequent adjustments to fair value being reflected through the Income Statement.
xviii Own shares held by ESOP Trusts and treasury shares Transactions of the Group-sponsored ESOP Trusts, The Quintain Group Employee Benefit Trust and The Quintain Estates and Development Deferred Bonus Plan Trust, are included in the Group financial statements.
In particular, the Trusts purchases of shares in the Company and shares acquired as treasury shares are debited directly to equity.
