Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 95 The Directors are responsible for keeping proper Statement of Directors accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company responsibilities in respect and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general of the Annual Report and responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open the financial statements to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Under applicable law and regulations, the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors financial statements in accordance with applicable report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate law and regulations.
Governance Statement that comply with that law and Company law requires the Directors to prepare those regulations.
Group and Parent Company financial statements for each The Directors are responsible for the maintenance financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare and integrity of the corporate and financial information the Group financial statements in accordance with included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and UK governing the preparation and dissemination have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial of financial statements may differ from legislation statements in accordance with UK Accounting in other jurisdictions.
Standards and applicable law, ie UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
