Accounting Policies Basis of preparation Bellway plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
Both the Company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs and have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for other financial assets, which are stated at their fair value.
On publishing the Company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in s230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these approved financial statements.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
In these financial statements the following Adopted IFRS is effective for the first time and comparatives have been restated accordingly: IFRS 7 - Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the related amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements in relation to capital disclosures.
The Group adopted IFRS 7 - Financial instruments: Disclosures on 1 August 2007.
IFRS 7 and the related amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements in relation to capital disclosures, introduces new disclosures relating to financial instruments and does not have any impact on the classification and valuation of the Group's or Company's financial instruments.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Judgements made by the directors, in the application of these accounting policies, that have a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed under accounting estimates and judgements on page 50.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 July.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised income and expenses of equity accounted entities.
When the Group's share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted entity, the Group's carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an investee.
Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups proportionate share of the significant entities assets, liabilities, income and expenses with items of a similar nature on a line by line basis, from the date that joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases.
Property, plant and equipment Items are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives over the following number of years: Plant, fixtures and fittings - 3 to 10 years.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Investment property Investment property is initially recognised at cost.
Subsequent to recognition, investment property is measured using the cost model and is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is charged, where material, so as to write off the cost less residual value of the investment properties over their estimated useful lives.
The residual values and useful lives of investment properties are reviewed at each financial year end.
The useful life of investment properties has been assessed as 40 years 2007 - 40 years.
47 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Accounting Policies continued Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost, in relation to work in progress and showhomes, comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads, not including any general administrative overheads, that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and overheads.
Land held for development, including land in the course of development until legal completion of the sale of the asset, is initially recorded at cost.
Where, through deferred payment terms, the fair value of land purchased differs from the amount that will subsequently be paid in settling the liability, the difference is charged as a finance expense in the income statement over the period to settlement.
Options purchased in respect of land are capitalised initially at cost.
Regular reviews are carried out for impairment in the value of these options, and provisions made accordingly to reflect loss of value.
The impairment reviews consider the period elapsed since the date of purchase of the option given that the option contract has not been exercised at the review date.
Further, the impairment reviews consider the remaining life of the option, taking account of any concerns over whether the remaining time available will allow a successful exercise of the option.
The carrying cost of the option at the date of exercise is included within the cost of land purchased as a result of the option exercise.
Investments in land without the benefit of planning consent, either through the purchase of land or non-refundable deposits paid on land purchase contracts subject to planning consent, are included initially at cost.
Regular reviews are carried out for impairment in the values of these investments, and provision made to reflect any irrecoverable element.
The impairment reviews consider the existing use value of the land and assess the likelihood of achieving planning consent and the value thereof.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are stated at their fair value at the date of initial recognition and subsequently at amortised cost less allowances for impairment.
Other financial assets Other financial assets are classified as being available-for-sale and are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss being recognised directly in equity within an available-for-sale reserve, except for impairment losses.
When these investments are derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised directly in equity is recognised in the income statement.
Where these investments are interest bearing, interest calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash balances in hand and in the bank including short term cash deposits.
The Group utilises bank overdraft facilities, which are repayable on demand, as part of its cash management policy.
As a consequence, bank overdrafts are included as a component of net cash and cash equivalents within the cash flow statement.
Offset arrangements across Group businesses have been applied to arrive at the cash and overdraft figures in the balance sheet.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Interest bearing loans and borrowings are stated at their fair value at the date of initial recognition and subsequently at amortised cost.
Trade and other payables Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Trade payables on deferred terms, most notably in relation to land purchases, are recorded initially at their fair value.
The discount to nominal value is amortised over the period to settlement and charged to finance expenses.
Preference share capital Preference share capital is redeemable on 6 April 2014 or at the option of the Company subject to relevant conditions set out in note 15 and is classified as a liability.
Dividends Dividends on redeemable preference shares are recognised as a liability and accrued using the effective interest rate method.
They are recognised in the income statement within finance expenses.
Other dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by the shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2008 48 Accounting Policies continued Classification of equity instruments and financial liabilities issued by the Group Equity instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: a they include no contractual obligations upon the Company or Group as the case may be to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company or Group : and b where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Companys own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Companys exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classified takes the legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share capital and share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Grants Grants are included within work in progress in the balance sheet and are credited to the income statement over the life of the developments to which they relate.
Revenue recognition Revenue from private housing sales and land is recognised when transactions have legally completed.
Incentives Sales incentives are substantially cash in nature but include part-exchange costs which mainly relate to amounts written down, where the part-exchange allowance given to the purchaser of the new home is greater than the valuation of the part-exchange property.
Incentives are accounted for by reducing the housebuild revenue by the cost to the company of providing the incentive.
Rental income Rental income is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Part-exchange properties The purchase and subsequent sale of part-exchange properties is an activity undertaken in order to achieve the sale of a new property.
As such, the activity is regarded as a mechanism for selling.
Impairments and gains or losses on the sale of part-exchange properties are classified as a cost of sale.
Any subsequent write-down below the part-exchange valuation is posted to cost of sales.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account current and deferred taxation.
The charge is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in equity in which case it is recognised in equity.
Deferred taxation is provided for all temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Employee benefits - retirement benefit costs For the defined benefit pension scheme, the liability is calculated as the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
The fair values of scheme assets are then deducted.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
All actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense SORIE.
Further details of the scheme and the valuation methods applied may be found in note 24 on page 71.
Defined contribution pension costs are charged to the income statement in the period for which contributions are payable.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2008 49 Accounting Policies continued Employee benefits - share-based payment In accordance with IFRS 2, the fair value of equity settled share options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured as at the date the options are granted and the charge is only amended if vesting does not take place due to non-market conditions not being met.
Various option pricing models are used according to the terms of the option scheme under which the options were granted.
The fair value is spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of options that vest.
IFRS 2 has been applied to options granted after 7 November 2002 which had not vested at 1 January 2005.
With respect to share-based payments, a deferred tax asset is recognised on the relevant tax base.
The tax base is then compared to the cumulative sharebased payment expense recognised in the income statement.
Deferred tax arising on the excess of the tax base over the cumulative share-based payment expense recognised in the income statement has been recognised directly in equity outside the SORIE as share-based payments are considered to be transactions with shareholders.
A deferred tax asset relating to awards issued before 7 November 2002, which follow the exemption of IFRS1 and have not been accounted for under IFRS2, has been recognised on transition.
Subsequent reversal of the deferred tax asset and any excess tax benefits are recognised directly in equity.
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries it recognises, in its individual financial statements, an increase in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity settled share-based payment charge recognised in its consolidated financial statements with the corresponding credit being recognised in equity.
Own shares held by ESOP trust Transactions of the Group-sponsored ESOP trust are included in the Group financial statements but are not accounted for within the Company's financial statements.
The purchase of shares in the Company by the trust are charged directly to equity.
Operating leases Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Finance income and expenses Finance income includes interest receivable on bank deposits.
Other financial assets relate to the deferred element of revenues receivable from the sale of homes under shared equity schemes.
The discounting of these other financial assets produces a notional interest receivable amount and this is also credited to finance income.
Finance expenses includes interest on bank borrowings and dividends on redeemable preference shares.
The discounting of the deferred payments for land purchases produces a notional interest payable amount and this is also charged to finance expenses.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are those which, in the opinion of the Board, are material by size or nature, non-recurring, and of such significance that they require separate disclosure on the face of the income statement.
Accounting estimates and judgements Management considers the key estimates and judgements made in the financial statements to be related to: Valuation of work in progress and land held for development Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value, less payments on account.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less all estimated costs of completion and overheads.
Valuations of site work in progress are carried out at regular intervals and estimates of the cost to complete a site and estimates of anticipated revenues are required to enable a development profit to be determined.
Management are required to employ considerable judgement in estimating the profitability of a site and in assessing any impairment provisions which may be required.
Exceptional items For the year ended 31 July 2008, a full review of inventories has been performed and write downs have been made where cost exceeds net realisable value.
Estimated selling prices have been reviewed on a site by site basis and selling prices have been reduced based on local management and the Board's assessment of current market conditions.
These site reviews have resulted in write-downs totalling 112.5 million.
Should there be a further significant reduction in UK house prices then further write-downs of land and work in progress may be required.
Pension The Group has utilised a rate of return on assets and a discount rate having been advised by its actuary.
To the extent that such assumed rates are different from what actually transpires, the pension liability of the Group would change.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2008 50 Accounting Policies continued Income taxes A certain degree of estimation and judgement is required in establishing the tax figures prior to formal resolution with HMRC.
In accordance with the contingent asset rules, detailed in IAS 37, the Group's policy is to be prudent in assessing the level of benefit which may accrue.
Standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective At the date of approval of these financial statements some standards, amendments and interpretations have been published which are expected to have an effect on the Group's financial statements for the accounting periods beginning on or after 1 August 2008.
None of these have been endorsed by the EU with the exception of IFRS 8 'Operating Segments'.
The standards, interpretations and amendments which are expected to have an effect on the Group's financial statements are: - IFRS 8 'Operating Segments'.
This standard amends the current segmental reporting requirements of IAS 14 with a requirement for segmental information to be presented on the same basis as that used by management for internal reporting purposes.
This standard will apply to the Group's financial statements for the period commencing 1 August 2009, with the requirement of additional disclosures.
This amendment requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of the asset, removing the option to immediately expense such costs.
The Group is assessing whether this amendment is applicable to the Group and, if so, its likely effect on the financial statements.
- IFRIC 14 - IAS 19 - 'The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction'.
This IFRIC outlines when refunds or reductions in future contributions can be treated as available under IAS 19 and how a minimum funding requirement affects future contributions or may give rise to a liability.
This interpretation applies to the Group's financial statements from the accounting period commenced on 1 August 2008.
The Group anticipates that no additional liabilities will be recognised on the adoption of IFRIC 14.
- IFRIC 15 'Agreements for the construction of real estate'.
This IFRIC provides guidance on whether the construction of real estate should be accounted for under IAS 11 or IAS 18.
The interpretation is effective from 1 January 2009, however, the Group already accounts for the construction of real estate in accordance with IFRIC 15 and consequently there will be no effect on the Group's financial statements.
Of the other IFRSs that are available for early adoption, none are expected to have a material effect on the financial statements.
51 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2008
