Notice of Annual General Meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at The Copthorne Hotel, The Close, Quayside, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 3RT on Friday 16 January 2009 at 12.00 noon for the following purposes: Ordinary business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions which will be proposed as ordinary resolutions: 1.
THAT the Accounts for the financial year ended 31 July 2008 and the Directors Report and the Auditors Report on those Accounts and the auditable part of the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration be received and adopted.
THAT a final dividend for the year ended 31 July 2008 of 6.0 pence per ordinary 12.5 pence share, as recommended by the directors, be declared.
THAT Mr P J Stoker be re-elected as a director of the Company.
THAT Mr P M Johnson be re-elected as a director of the Company.
THAT Mr D G Perry be re-elected as a director of the Company.
THAT KPMG Audit Plc be re-appointed as the auditors of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which Accounts are laid before the Company.
THAT the directors are authorised to agree the remuneration of the auditors of the Company.
THAT the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration shown on pages 34 to 41 of the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 July 2008 be approved.
Special business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution: 9.
THAT in substitution for the existing authority for the purposes of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act conferred upon the directors by a resolution passed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 11 January 2008, the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 80 of the Act to allot relevant securities which for the purposes of this resolution shall have the same meaning as in Section 80 2 of the Act of the Company provided that: i the maximum amount of relevant securities that may be allotted pursuant to the authority given by this resolution shall be up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,293,629: ii subject as provided in sub-paragraph iii below, such authority shall expire at the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company to be held in 2010, but may be previously revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution of the Company: and iii such authority shall permit and enable the directors to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of such authority, which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and to allot such securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if such authority had not expired: and iv in relation to the grant of any rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the Company, the reference in this resolution to the maximum amount of relevant securities that may be allotted is the maximum amount of shares which may be allotted pursuant to such rights.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions which will be proposed as special resolutions: 10.
THAT, subject to resolution 9 above being passed as an ordinary resolution, and insofar as it relates to securities that are not treasury shares within the meaning of Section 162A 3 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the directors be empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority so conferred or where the equity securities are held by the Company as qualifying shares to which Sections 162A to 162G of the Act apply in each case as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities.
i in connection with an offer of equity securities, open for acceptance for a fixed period, by the directors to ordinary shareholders of the Company on the Register on a fixed record date in proportion as nearly as may be to their then holdings of such equity securities but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange in, any overseas territory or fractional entitlements or any other matter whatsoever : and or ii otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above or pursuant to the Bellway p. l. c. 1995 Employee Share Option Scheme, the Bellway p. l. c. 1996 Employee Share Option Scheme, the Bellway p. l. c. 2003 Savings Related Share Option Scheme, the Bellway p. l. c. 2004 Performance Share Plan, the Bellway p. l. c. 2005 Employee Share Option Scheme, the Bellway p. l. c. 2007 Employee Share Option Scheme, and the Bellway p. l. c. 2008 Share Matching Plan, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 718,456 and shall expire on the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, 15 months after the passing of this resolution except that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities pursuant to such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired.
83 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 11.
THAT the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to purchase ordinary shares and preference shares in the capital of the Company by way of one or more market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act on the London Stock Exchange upon, and subject to the following conditions: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 11,495,292 ordinary shares of 12.5p each, being approximately 10 per cent of the ordinary shares in issue: ii the maximum number of preference shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 20,000,000 9.5% Cumulative Redeemable Preference Shares 2014 of 1 each, being the total amount of preference shares in issue: iii the maximum price at which ordinary shares may be purchased is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations derived from the London Stock Exchange Limited Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the ordinary shares are contracted to be purchased and the minimum price is 12.5p per share, in both cases exclusive of expenses: iv the maximum price at which preference shares may be purchased shall be an amount calculated in accordance with the provisions contained in the Articles of Association of the Company: and v unless previously renewed, varied or revoked, the authority to purchase conferred by this resolution shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, or if earlier, 15 months after the passing of this resolution provided that any contract for the purchase of any shares as aforesaid which was concluded before the expiry of the said authority may be executed wholly or partly after the said authority expires and the relevant shares purchased pursuant thereto.
Notes: i A Member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting convened by the above notice may appoint one or more proxies to attend and speak and vote instead of him her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
ii A form of proxy is enclosed separately.
Completion and return of the proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending in person and voting at the meeting.
iii CREST members will be able to cast their vote using CREST electronic proxy voting using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
In order to be valid, the Companys registrars must receive CREST Proxy Instructions not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
iv There will be available for inspection during the AGM and for at least fifteen minutes before it begins, the Register of Members, Register of Directors interests, details of all proxies received, a copy of the current Memorandum and Articles of Association, and the directors appointment letters and service contracts.
v The above statement as to proxy rights contained in note i above does not apply to a person who receives this notice of general meeting as a person nominated to benefit from information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006.
If you have been sent this notice of meeting because you are such a nominated person, the following statements apply:- a you may have a right under an agreement between you and the member of the Company by whom you were nominated to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for this general meeting: and b if you have no such right or do not wish to exercise it, you may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to that member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Nominated persons should contact the registered member by whom they were nominated in respect of these arrangements.
vi To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the purposes of determination by the Company of the number of votes cast, shareholders must be entered on the Companys Register of Members not less than 48 hours prior to the time set for the meeting.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2008 84 Notice of Annual General Meeting vii In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives - www.
uk - for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
viii As at the date of this notice there are 114,952,916 shares in issue and the total voting rights of the Company are therefore 114,952,916.
By order of the Board G Kevin Wrightson Group Company Secretary Registered Office Bellway p. l. c. Seaton Burn House Dudley Lane Seaton Burn Newcastle upon Tyne NE13 6BE Registered in England and Wales No.
