58 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2008 1.
General information Subsidiaries accumulated impairment loss identified Savills plc the Company and its subsidiaries A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the on acquisition see Note 17 a. together the Group is a leading international Group, where control is the power to govern The Groups share of its associates postproperty advisory group.
It has an extensive the financial and operating policies generally acquisition profits or losses is recognised network of offices and associates throughout accompanying a shareholding of more than in the income statement and its share of the UK, continental Europe, the Americas, half of the voting rights.
The existence and post-acquisition movements in reserves is Asia Pacific and Africa.
Savills is listed on the effect of potential voting rights that are recognised in reserves.
The cumulative postLondon Stock Exchange and employs 19,834 currently exercisable and convertible are acquisition movements are adjusted against staff worldwide in 182 offices.
considered when assessing whether the carrying amount of the investment.
the Group controls another entity.
The Company is a public limited company Accounting policies of associates have incorporated and domiciled in England and The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted been aligned to ensure consistency with the Wales.
The address of its registered office is for using the purchase method.
The results policies adopted by the Group.
Gains and 20 Grosvenor Hill, Berkeley Square, London of subsidiary undertakings acquired during losses on dilution of the Groups share of W1K 3HQ.
the period are included from the date of equity in associates are recognised in the acquisition.
For the purpose of consolidation, These consolidated financial statements were income statement.
the purchase consideration is allocated approved for issue by the Board of Directors between the underlying net assets acquired, Joint ventures on 10 March 2009.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement including intangible assets other than good 2.
Accounting policies will, on the basis of their fair value.
Excess whereby two or more parties undertake an The principal accounting policies applied in costs of acquisition over fair value of the economic activity that is subject to joint control, the preparation of these consolidated financial which exists only when the strategic financial Groups share of identifiable net assets statements are set out below.
These policies acquired are recorded as goodwill.
and operating decisions relating to the have been consistently applied to all the years activity require the unanimous consent of The results of subsidiary undertakings that have presented, unless otherwise stated, and are the venturers.
The Groups joint ventures are been sold during the year are included up to also applicable to the parent Company.
accounted for using the equity method.
The profit or loss is calculated Basis of preparation by reference to the net asset value at the date Segment reporting These financial statements have been prepared of disposal, adjusted for purchased goodwill A business segment is a group of assets and in accordance with International Financial previously included on the balance sheet and operations engaged in providing products or Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS foreign exchange reserve balances on services that are subject to risks and returns interpretations as adopted by the European retranslation.
that are different from those of other business Union and with those parts of the Companies segments.
A geographical segment is engaged Inter-company transactions, balances and Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting in providing products or services within a unrealised gains arising between Group under IFRS.
particular economic environment that is subject companies are eliminated in preparing the to risks and returns that are different from those The financial statements have been consolidated financial statements.
Accounting segments operating in other economic prepared under the historical cost convention, policies of subsidiaries have been changed environments.
as modified to include the revaluation of where necessary to ensure consistency with available-for-sale financial assets to equity the policies adopted by the Group.
As the Group is strongly affected by both and financial liabilities including derivative differences in the types of services it provides Transactions with minority interests instruments at fair value through the and the geographical areas in which it The Group applies a policy of treating income statement.
operates, the matrix approach of disclosing transactions with minority interests as both the business and geographical segments The preparation of financial statements in transactions with parties external to the as primary reporting formats is used.
conformity with IFRS requires the use of Group.
Disposals to minority interests result certain critical accounting estimates and for in gains and losses for the Group that are Revenues and expenses are allocated to management to exercise judgement in the recorded in the income statement.
Purchases segments on the basis that they are directly process of applying the Groups accounting from minority interests may result in goodwill, attributable or the relevant portion can be policies.
The areas involving a higher degree being any difference between consideration allocated on a reasonable basis.
of judgement or complexity, or areas where paid and the relevant share acquired of the Exceptional items assumptions and estimates are significant carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary.
Exceptional items are disclosed and described to the consolidated financial statements Associates separately in the financial statements where are disclosed in Note 4.
Associates are all entities over which the it is necessary to do so to provide further Consolidation Group has significant influence but not control, understanding of the financial performance of The consolidated accounts include the generally accompanying a shareholding of the Group.
They are material items of income or accounts of the Company and its subsidiary between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
expense that have been shown separately due undertakings, together with the Groups share Investments in associates are accounted to the significance of their nature or amount.
of results of its associates and joint ventures.
for using the equity method and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill net of any 59 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable Acquired computer software licences are Foreign currency translation that the future economic benefits associated capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred Functional and presentation currency with the item will flow to the Group and the to acquire and bring to use the specific cost of the item can be measured reliably.
Costs associated with developing or Items included in the financial statements maintaining computer software programmes of each of the Groups entities are measured Provision for depreciation is made at rates are recognised as an expense as incurred.
using the currency of the primary economic calculated on a straight-line basis to write-off environment in which the entity operates the assets over their estimated useful lives Measurement subsequent to initial recognition the functional currency.
The consolidated as follows: is at fair value less accumulated amortisation financial statements are presented in Sterling, and impairment.
Freehold property 50 years which is also the Companys functional Amortisation charges are spread on a Leasehold property over unexpired and presentation currency.
straight-line basis over the period of the assets less than 50 years term of lease Transactions and balances estimated useful lives as follows: Furniture and office equipment 3 6 years Motor vehicles 3 5 years Foreign currency transactions are translated Computer software 3 years into the functional currency using the exchange Computer equipment 3 years Property management rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
contracts 2 10 years Useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting Incremental contract costs 10 years appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
from the settlement of such transactions and Business and customer from the translation at year-end exchange rates An assets carrying amount is written down relationships 6 10 years of monetary assets and liabilities denominated immediately to its recoverable amount if the Brands 5 years in foreign currencies are recognised in the assets carrying amount is greater than its income statement.
Impairment of non-financial assets estimated recoverable amount.
Assets that have indefinite useful lives are Translation differences on non-monetary Goodwill not subject to amortisation and are tested financial assets and liabilities are reported Goodwill represents the excess of the cost annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject as part of the fair value gain or loss and of acquisition of a subsidiary or associate over to amortisation are reviewed for impairment are recognised in the income statement.
the Groups share of the fair value of identifiable whenever an indicator of impairment exists.
Non-monetary items carried at historical net assets acquired.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent cost are reported using the exchange rate that the carrying value exceeds the higher of In respect of associates, goodwill is included at the date of the transaction.
the assets fair value less cost to sell and its in the carrying value of the investment.
Goodwill The differences between retained profits value-in-use.
For the purposes of assessing arising on acquisition is capitalised and subject of overseas subsidiaries and associated impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest to annual impairment reviews.
Goodwill is undertakings translated at average and levels for which there are separately identifiable stated at cost less accumulated impairment closing rates of exchange are taken to reserves, cash flows cash-generating units.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not as are differences arising on the retranslation is not possible to estimate the recoverable reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of overseas net assets to Sterling at the end amount of an individual asset, the Group of an entity include the carrying amount of of the year using closing rates of exchange.
estimates the recoverable amount of the cashgoodwill relating to the entity sold.
Any differences that have arisen since generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units 1 January 2004 are presented as a separate Value-in-use is determined using the for the purpose of impairment testing.
As permitted under discounted cash flow method, with an allocation is made to those cash-generating IFRS 1, any differences prior to that date appropriate discount rate to reflect market units or groups of cash-generating units that are not included in this separate component rates and specific risks associated with the are expected to benefit from the business of equity.
If the recoverable amount is estimated combination in which the goodwill arose.
When a foreign operation is sold, exchange to be less than its carrying amount, an The Group allocates goodwill to each business differences that were recorded in equity are impairment loss is recognised immediately segment in the geographical region in which it recognised in the income statement as part in the income statement.
operates Note 15. of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair Intangible assets other than goodwill value adjustments arising on the acquisition Intangible assets acquired as part of business of a foreign entity are treated as assets and combinations and incremental contract costs liabilities of the foreign entity and translated are valued at fair value on acquisition and at the closing rate.
amortised over the useful life.
Fair value on Property, plant and equipment acquisition is determined by third-party Property, plant and equipment is stated at valuations where the acquisition is significant.
historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Historical cost includes expenditure directly attributable to acquisition.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate 60 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued Trade payables except where the timing of the reversal of the Financial instruments Trade payables are initially measured at fair temporary difference is controlled by the Group Financial assets and liabilities are recognised value and subsequently measured at amortised and it is probable that it will not reverse in the on the Groups balance sheet at fair value when cost, using the effective interest rate method.
the Group becomes party to the contractual Derivative financial instruments and hedging A deferred income tax asset is recognised provisions of the instrument.
Subsequent only to the extent that it is probable that future Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value measurement depends on the classification on the date a derivative contract is entered into taxable profits will be available against which and is discussed below: and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
the asset can be utilised.
Deferred income Investments tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
The method of recognising the resulting gain Available-for-sale investments are stated at or loss depends on whether the derivative is Deferred income tax is determined using fair value less accumulated impairment, with designated as a hedging instrument and if the tax rates that have been enacted or changes in fair value being recognised directly substantially enacted by the balance sheet so, the nature of the item being hedged.
When such investments are disposed date and are expected to apply when the Certain derivatives do not qualify for hedge or become impaired, the accumulated gains related deferred tax asset is realised or deferred accounting.
In these cases, changes in the and losses, previously recognised in equity, tax liability is settled.
Income tax and deferred fair value of all derivative instruments are are recognised in the income statement.
tax is recognised in the income statement recognised immediately in the income except to the extent that it relates to items The investment in subsidiaries held by the statement.
recognised directly in equity, in which case Company are held at cost, less any provision Gains and losses relating to the effective it is recognised in equity.
portion of hedges of net investments in foreign Pension obligations Trade receivables operations are recognised in equity.
Gains or The Group has both defined benefit and Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair losses relating to the ineffective portion are defined contribution plans.
A defined value and subsequently measured at amortised recognised immediately in the income contribution plan is a pension plan under cost less provision for impairment.
Gains and losses accumulated in which the Group pays fixed contributions are discounted where the time value of money equity are included in the income statement into a separate entity.
The Group has no is material.
when the foreign operation is partially disposed legal or constructive obligations to pay further or sold.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient is established when there is objective evidence Share capital assets to pay all employees the benefits relating that the Group will not be able to collect all Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
to employee service in the current and prior amounts due according to the original terms Incremental costs directly attributable to the periods.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties issue of new shares or options are shown that is not a defined contribution plan.
A defined of the debtor, probability that the debtor will in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, proceeds.
When share capital is repurchased, amount of pension benefit that an employee and default or delinquency in payments are the amount of consideration paid, including will receive on retirement, usually dependent considered indicators that the trade receivable directly attributable costs, is recognised as a on one or more factors, such as age, years is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the charge to equity.
Repurchased shares which of service and compensation.
difference between the assets carrying amount are not cancelled, or shares purchased for The liability recognised in the balance sheet in and the present value of estimated future cash the Employee Share Ownership Trusts, are respect of defined benefit pension plans is the flows, discounted at the original effective classified as treasury shares and presented as present value of the defined benefit obligation interest rate.
at the balance sheet date less the fair value of Cash and cash equivalents Taxation plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is Cash and cash equivalents include cash in Taxation is that chargeable on the profits for calculated annually by independent actuaries hand and deposits held on call with banks, the period, together with deferred taxation.
using the projected unit credit method.
together with other short-term highly liquid The current income tax charge is calculated The present value of the defined benefit investments with original maturities of three on the basis of the tax laws enacted at the obligation is determined by discounting the months or less and working capital overdrafts, balance sheet date in the countries where the estimated future cash outflows.
which are subject to an insignificant risk of Group operate and generate taxable income.
Where applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation, provisions are established where Bank borrowings appropriate on the basis of amounts expected Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are to be paid.
initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred, and subsequently measured Deferred income tax is provided in full using at amortised cost using the effective interest the liability method, on temporary differences rate method.
between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amount used for the tax base.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, 61 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued The assets and liabilities of the EBT are fees are recognised on the date of completion Pension obligations continued included in the balance sheet of the Group.
of a purchase or sale transaction.
Distribution The defined benefit scheme charge consists of Investments in the Groups own shares are fees are recognised on the completion of current service costs, interest costs, expected shown as a deduction from equity.
a signed subscription agreement and return on plan assets, past service costs and performance fees are recognised when Provisions the impact of any settlements or curtailments approved by the fund.
Provisions are recognised when the Group and is charged as an expense as they fall due.
has a present legal or constructive obligation Financial services All actuarial gains and losses are recognised as a result of a past event and it is probable immediately in the statement of recognised Insurance commission revenue is recognised that the Group will be required to settle that income and expense as they arise.
when the insurance policy sold is in effect obligation and the amount has been reliably and the amount of commission earned is The Group also operates a defined contribution estimated.
Provisions are measured at the determinable.
Indemnity commission is group personal pension plan for new entrants Directors best estimate of the expenditure recognised when the policy sold is in effect.
and a number of defined contribution individual required to settle the obligation at the balance Mortgage commission is recognised on pension plans.
Contributions in respect of sheet date and are discounted to present completion with the exception of residential defined contribution pension schemes are value where the effect is material.
properties where 50% is recognised at charged to the income statement when they Revenue exchange and the remaining 50% are payable.
The Group has no further payment Revenue comprises the fair value of the at completion.
obligations once the contributions have been consideration received or receivable for the paid.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as Work in progress provision of services in the ordinary course of an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a the Groups activities.
Revenue is shown net Work in progress generally relates to reduction in the future payments is available.
of value-added tax and after elimination of consultancy revenue and is stated at the lower Share-based payments revenue within the Group.
of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes The Group operates equity-settled share-based an appropriate proportion of overheads.
Residential transactional fees compensation plans.
The fair value of the Interest income employee services received in exchange Generally, where contracts are unconditional, for the grant of the options is recognised as revenue is recognised on exchange of Interest income is recognised on a timean expense.
contracts however, on more complex proportion basis using the effective interest contracts, revenue will be recognised on method.
Equity-settled share-based payments granted the date of completion.
On multi-unit Dividend income after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as developments, revenue is recognised on of 1 January 2005 are measured at fair value at a staged basis, commencing when the Dividend income is recognised when the right the date of grant.
The fair value determined at underlying contracts are exchanged.
to receive payment is established.
the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis Commercial transactional fees Other income over the vesting period, based on the Groups Generally, revenue is recognised on the date Other income includes interest and dividend estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
of completion or when unconditional contracts income on available-for-sale investments plus The fair value of equity-settled share based have been exchanged.
fair value gains and losses on assets at fair payments is measured by the use of Actuarial value through profit or loss.
Property consultancy Binomial option pricing model.
At each balance Accounting for leases sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of Revenue in respect of property consultancy Assets financed by leasing agreements which the number of options that are expected to represents commissions and fees recognised give rights approximating to ownership finance become exercisable.
It recognises the impact on a time basis, fixed fee or percentage of leases are capitalised in property, plant and of the revision of original estimates, if any, in completion.
Finance lease assets are initially the income statement, and a corresponding recognised at an amount equal to the lower Property and facilities management adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting of their fair value and the present value of period.
The proceeds received net of any Revenue represents fees earned for the minimum lease payments at inception of directly attributable transaction costs are managing properties and providing facilities the lease, then depreciated over the lower of credited to share capital nominal value and and is generally recognised in the period the the lease life or the estimated useful lives on share premium when the options are exercised.
services are provided using a straight-line the same basis as owned assets.
basis over the term of the contract.
Employee Benefit Trust The Company has established The Savills plc Fund management 1992 Employee Benefit Trust the EBT, the Revenue represents commissions and fees purposes of which are to grant awards to receivable, net of marketing costs in employees, to acquire shares in the Company accordance with the relevant fee agreements.
pursuant to the Savills Deferred Share Bonus Annual management fees are recognised, Plan and the Savills Deferred Share Plan and to hold shares in the Company for subsequent gross of costs, in the period to which the transfer to employees on the vesting of the service has been provided, in accordance with the contracted fee agreements.
Transaction awards granted under the schemes.
62 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued Standards, amendments and interpretations IFRS 2 Amendment, Share-based Accounting for leases continued effective in 2008 but not relevant payment effective from 1 January 2009.
The capital elements of future obligations under IFRIC 12, Service concession arrangements The amendment clarifies that vesting finance leases are included as liabilities in the is mandatory for accounting periods conditions are service conditions and balance sheet.
Leasing payments comprise beginning on or after 1 January 2008 but is performance conditions only.
Other features capital and finance elements and the finance not relevant to the Groups operations as of a share-based payment are not vesting element is charged to the income statement.
none of the Groups companies provide conditions.
These features would need to public sector services.
be included in the grant date fair value for The annual payments under all other lease transactions with employees and others agreements operating leases are charged to Standards, amendments and interpretations providing similar services: they would not the income statement on a straight-line basis to standards that are not yet effective and have impact the number of awards expected to over the lease term.
Benefits received and not been early adopted by the Group vest or valuation thereof subsequent to grant receivable as an incentive to enter into the The following standards and amendments date.
All cancellations, whether by the entity operating lease are also spread on a straightto published standards are mandatory for or by other parties, should receive the same line basis over the lease term.
accounting periods beginning on or after accounting treatment.
The Group will apply 1 January 2009, but have not been A lease is classified as onerous where the IFRS 2 Amendment from 1 January 2009. early adopted: unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations It is not expected to have a material impact under the contract exceed the economic IFRS 8, Operating segments effective from on the Groups financial statements but will benefits expected to be received under it.
IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 change the accounting for the Sharesave and aligns segment reporting with the Schemes.
Dividends requirements of the US standard SFAS 131, Final dividends are recognised as a liability in IAS 32 Amendment, Financial Disclosures about segments of an enterprise the Groups financial statements in the period instruments: Presentation, and IAS 1 and related information.
The new standard in which they are approved by the Companys Amendment, Presentation of financial requires a management approach, under shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised statements Puttable financial instruments which segment information is presented on when paid.
and obligations arising on liquidation the same basis as that used for internal effective from 1 January 2009.
Interpretations effective in 2008 reporting purposes.
The Group will apply The amendments require entities to The following interpretations are mandatory for IFRS 8 from 1 January 2009. classify puttable financial instruments and the Groups accounting periods beginning on IAS 27 Amendment, Consolidated and instruments, or components of instruments or after 1 January 2008: separate financial statements effective from that impose on the entity an obligation to IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a defined 1 January 2009.
Where an investment in a deliver to another party a pro rata share benefit asset, minimum funding requirements subsidiary that is accounted for under IAS of the net assets of the entity only on and their interaction, provides guidance on 39, Financial instruments: recognition and liquidation as equity, provided the financial assessing the limit in IAS 19 on the amount measurement, is classified as held-for-sale instruments have particular features and of the surplus that can be recognised as an under IFRS 5, Non-current assets held-formeet specific conditions.
It also explains how the pension asset sale and discontinued operations, IAS 39 apply the amendments from 1 January 2009. or liability may be affected by a statutory or would continue to be applied.
It is not It is not expected to have any impact on contractual minimum funding requirement.
expected to have a material impact on the the Groups financial statements.
This interpretation does not have any impact Groups financial statements.
IAS 27 Revised, Consolidated and on the Groups financial statements, as IAS 1 Revised, Presentation of financial separate financial statements, effective the Group has a pension deficit and is not statements effective from 1 January 2009. from 1 July 2009.
The revised standard subject to any minimum funding requirements.
Prohibits the presentation of items of income requires the effects of all transactions with IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and treasury and expenses that is, non-owner changes non-controlling interests to be recorded in share transactions, provides guidance on in equity in the statement of changes in equity if there is no change in control and whether share-based transactions involving equity, requiring non-owner changes these transactions will no longer result in treasury shares or involving Group entities in equity to be presented separately from goodwill or gains and losses.
The standard should be accounted for as equity-settled owner changes in equity.
All non-owner also specifies the accounting when control or cash-settled share-based payment changes in equity will be required to is lost.
Any remaining interest in the entity transactions in the stand-alone accounts be shown in a performance statement, is re-measured to fair value, and a gain of the parent and Group companies.
but entities can choose whether to or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
This interpretation was early adopted in 2007 present one statement the statement of The Group will apply IAS 27 Revised to but does not have an impact on the Group comprehensive income or two statements transactions with non-controlling interests or Companys financial statements as all the income statement and statement of from 1 January 2010. share-based transactions are equity-settled.
The Group will apply IAS 1 Revised from 1 January 2009.
It is likely that both the income statement and statement of comprehensive income will be presented as performance statements.
63 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued IAS 38 Amendment, Intangible assets When remeasuring the carrying amount Standards, amendments and interpretations to effective from 1 January 2009. of a debt instrument on cessation of fair standards that are not yet effective and have A prepayment may only be recognised as value hedge accounting, the amendment not been early adopted by the Group continued an intangible asset in the event that payment clarifies that a revised effective interest IFRS 3 Revised, Business combinations has been made in advance of obtaining right rate calculated at the date fair value effective from 1 July 2009.
The revised of access to goods or receipt of services.
hedge accounting ceases is used.
standard continues to apply the acquisition The Group will apply the IAS 38 The Group will apply the IAS 39 Amendment method to business combinations, with Amendment from 1 January 2009. from 1 January 2009.
It is not expected to have some significant changes.
For example, all an impact on the Groups income statement.
IAS 19 Amendment, Employee benefits payments to purchase a business are to be effective from 1 January 2009. recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, IAS 1 Amendment, Presentation of financial with contingent payments classified as debt The amendment clarifies that a plan statements effective from 1 January 2009. and subsequently re-measured through the amendment that results in a change in the The amendment clarifies that some rather income statement.
There is a choice on an extent to which benefit promises are affected than all financial assets and liabilities classified  basis to measure by future salary increases is a curtailment, as held for trading in accordance with the non-controlling interest in the acquiree while an amendment that changes benefits IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition either at fair vale or at the non-controlling attributable to past service gives rise to a and measurement are examples of current interests proportionate share of the negative past service cost if it results in a assets and liabilities respectively.
The Group acquirees net assets.
All acquisition-related reduction in the present value of the defined will apply the IAS 39 Amendment from costs should be expensed.
The Group will benefit obligation.
It is not expected to have an apply IFRS 3 Revised to all business impact on the Groups financial statements.
The definition of return on plan assets combinations from 1 January 2010. has been amended to state that plan There are also a number of minor amendments IFRS 5 Amendment, Non-current assets administration costs are deducted in the to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, held-for-sale and discontinued operations calculation of return on plan assets only IAS 8, Accounting policies, changes in and consequential amendment to IFRS 1, to the extent that such costs have been accounting estimates and errors, IAS 10, First-time adoption effective from 1 July excluded from measurement of the Events after the reporting period, IAS 18, 2009.
The amendment clarifies that all of a defined benefit obligation.
Revenue and IAS 34, Interim financial subsidiarys assets and liabilities are classified reporting, which are part of the IASBs annual The distinction between short-term and as held-for-sale if a partial disposal sale plan improvements project published in May 2008. long-term employee benefits will be based results in loss of control.
A consequential These amendments are unlikely to have an on whether benefits are due to be settled amendment to IFRS 1 states that these impact on the Groups accounts.
within or after 12 months of service amendments are applied prospectively from being rendered.
IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in a the date of transition to IFRSs.
The Group will foreign operation effective from 1 October apply the IFRS 5 Amendment to all partial The Group will apply the IAS 19 2008.
Net investment hedging relates disposals of subsidiaries from 1 January 2010.
It is to differences in functional currency not not expected to have a material impact IAS 28 Amendment, Investments in presentation currency, and hedging on the Groups financial statements.
associates and consequential amendments instruments may be held anywhere in the to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: IAS 39 Amendment, Financial instruments: Group.
The requirements of IAS 21, The Presentation, and IFRS 7, Financial Recognition and measurement effective effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, instruments: Disclosures effective from from 1 January 2009. do apply to the hedged item.
An investment in associate apply IFRIC 16 from 1 January 2009.
It is not This amendment clarifies that it is possible is treated as a single asset for the purposes expected to have a material impact on the for there to be movements in the fair value of impairment testing.
Any impairment loss Groups financial statements.
through profit or loss category where a is not allocated to specific assets included derivative commences or ceases to qualify IFRIC 17, Distributions of Non-cash Assets within the investment, for example, goodwill.
as a hedging instrument in cash flow or to Owners effective from 1 July 2009 Reversals of impairment are recorded as an net investment hedge.
applies in the accounting treatment of adjustment to the investment balance to the distribution of non-cash assets to owners.
extent that the recoverable amount of the The definition of financial asset or financial It is not expected to have a material impact associate increases.
The Group will apply the liability at fair value through profit or loss as on the Groups financial statements.
IAS 28 Amendment from 1 January 2009. it relates to items that are held for trading is also amended.
This clarifies that a financial IAS 36 Amendment, Impairment of assets asset or liability that is part of a portfolio of effective from 1 January 2009.
Where fair financial instruments managed together with value less costs to sell is calculated on the evidence of an actual recent pattern of shortbasis of discounted cash flows, disclosures term profit taking is included in such a equivalent to those for value-in-use portfolio on initial recognition.
The Group will apply the IAS 36 Amendment from 1 January 2009.
64 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued consequential amendment to IAS 7, For the year ended 31 December 2008, if Amendments and interpretations to existing Statement of cash flows IAS 23 the average currency conversion rates for the standards that are not yet effective but Amendment, Borrowing costs, and year had changed with all other variables held are not relevant IAS 38 Amendment, Intangible assets.
constant, the Group post tax loss profit for The following amendments and interpretations the year would have increased or decreased IFRIC 15, Agreements for construction of to existing standards have been published as shown below: real estates effective from 1 January 2009. and are mandatory for accounting periods Movement of currency against Sterling IFRIC 15 is not relevant to the Groups beginning on or after 1 January 2008 or later, m 20% 10% 10% 20% operations as all revenue transactions but are not relevant to the Groups operations: For the year ended 31 December 2008 are accounted for under IAS 18 and not IAS 28 Amendment, Investments in IAS 11 Construction Contracts.
Estimated impact on post tax loss profit associates and consequential amendments Euro 0.6 0.3 0.2 0.4 IFRIC 18, Transfers of Assets from to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Customers effective from 1 July 2009.
Hong Kong dollar 2.1 0.9 0.8 1.4 Presentation and IFRS 7, Financial IFRIC 18 is not relevant to the Groups US dollar 1.7 0.7 0.6 1.1 instruments: Disclosures Where an operations as it does not account for investment in associate is accounted for Estimated impact on components of equity transfers of assets from customers.
in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Euro 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 instruments: recognition and measurement, 3.
Financial risk management Hong Kong dollar 23.3 10.4 8.5 15.6 only certain rather than all disclosure Financial risk factors US dollar 1.7 0.7 0.6 1.1 requirements in IAS 28 need to be made in The Groups activities expose it to a variety For the year ended 31 December 2007 addition to disclosures required by IAS 32, of financial risks.
The Group has in place a risk Financial Instruments: Presentation and management programme that seeks to limit the Estimated impact on post tax profit IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
adverse effects on the financial performance Euro 1.6 0.7 0.6 1.1 The amendment will not have an impact on of the Group.
Occasionally, the Group uses Hong Kong dollar 3.2 1.4 1.2 2.1 the Groups operations because it is Group financial instruments to manage foreign US dollar 1.6 0.7 0.6 1.1 policy for an investment in an associate currency and interest rate risk.
Estimated impact on components of equity to be equity accounted.
The treasury function is responsible for Euro 3.1 1.4 1.1 2.0 IAS 31 Amendment, Interests in joint implementing risk management policies applied Hong Kong dollar 12.5 5.5 4.5 8.3 ventures and consequential amendments to by the Group and has a policy and procedures IAS 32 and IFRS 7.
Where an investment in manual that sets out specific guidelines on US dollar 4.8 2.1 1.8 3.2 joint venture is accounted for in accordance financial risks and the use of financial Price risk with IAS 39, only certain rather than all instruments to manage these.
The Group is not materially exposed to equity disclosure requirements in IAS 31 need to be Foreign exchange risk securities price risk because listed investments made in addition to disclosures required by The Group operates internationally and is held on the balance sheet are not significant.
IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation, exposed to foreign exchange risks primarily The Group is not exposed to commodity and IFRS 7 Financial instruments: with respect to the Euro, US dollar and Hong price risk.
The amendment will not have Kong dollar.
Foreign exchange risk arises from an impact on the Groups operations Interest rate risk future commercial transactions, recognised because it is Group policy for an investment The Group has both interest bearing assets assets and liabilities and net investments in in a joint venture to be equity accounted.
The Group finances its operations foreign operations.
The Group finances some through a mixture of retained profits and bank The minor amendments to the following overseas investments through the use of borrowings, at both fixed and floating interest standards are not relevant to the Groups foreign currency borrowings.
Borrowings issued at variable rates operations: not actively seek to hedge risks arising from expose the Group cash flow to interest foreign currency transactions due to their non IAS 20 Accounting for government grants rate risk.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates cash nature and the high costs associated with and disclosure of government assistance, expose the Group to fair value interest rate such hedging: however when there is a material IAS 29, Financial reporting in risk.
Occasionally, the Group enters into committed foreign currency exposure the hyperinflationary economies, IAS 40, floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps to hedge foreign exchange risk will be hedged.
Investment property, IAS 41, Agriculture, the cash flow interest rate risk on borrowings.
IFRS 1 Amendment First time adoption of IFRS, IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements IAS 16 Amendment, Property, plant and equipment and 65 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements Between Between 3.
Financial risk management continued The table below shows bank counterparty Less than 1 and 2 and Interest rate risk continued ratings at the balance sheet date: m 1 year 2 years 5 years For the year ended 31 December 2008, if the 2008 2007 As at 31 December 2007 average interest rate for the year had changed Balance Balance Borrowings 4.6 4.0 11.1 Counterparty rating provided by S&P m m with all other variables held constant, the Group Loan notes 6.1 7.0 0.6 AAA 5.8 post-tax loss profit for the year would have increased or decreased as shown below: Derivative financial AA 1.5 60.4 instruments 0.2 AA 19.4 3.8 Movement of interest rates Trade and other A 10.8 31.7 m 0.50% 1.00% 1.50% 2.00% payables 234.3 7.1 6.8 A 27.6 8.1 For the year ended 31 December 2008 245.0 18.1 18.7 A 6.4 3.8 Estimated impact Capital risk management on post-tax loss BBB 3.8 2.9 The Groups objectives when managing profit 0.1 0.3 0.4 0.6 Total 75.3 110.7 capital are: For the year ended 31 December 2007 Liquidity risk to safeguard the Groups ability to provide Estimated impact The Group maintains appropriate committed on post-tax profit 0.1 0.3 0.4 0.6 returns for shareholders and benefits for facilities to ensure the Group has sufficient other stakeholders: and Credit risk funds available for operations and expansion.
to maintain an optimal capital structure Credit risk arises from cash and cash The Group prepares an annual funding plan to reduce the cost of capital.
equivalents, derivative financial instruments and approved by the Board which sets out the deposits with banks and financial institutions, Groups expected financing requirements Savills plc is not subject to any externally as well as credit exposures to clients, including for the next 12 months.
imposed capital requirements, with the outstanding receivables and committed exception of our FSA regulated entities, which Management monitors rolling forecasts of the transactions.
The Group has policies that complied with all capital requirements during Groups liquidity reserve comprising undrawn require appropriate credit checks on potential the year ended 31 December 2008. borrowing facilities Note 23 and cash and customers before business commences.
A risk cash equivalents Note 20 on the basis of In order to maintain an optimal capital structure, control framework is used to assess the credit expected cash flow.
This is carried out at local the Group may adjust the amount of dividends quality of clients, taking into account financial level in the operating companies of the Group paid to shareholders, return capital to position, past experience and other factors.
in accordance with Group practice as well as shareholder, issue new shares or sell assets Individual risk limits for banks and financial on a Group consolidated basis.
institutions are set based on external ratings The table below analyses the Groups financial The Groups policy is to borrow centrally and in accordance with limits set by the Board.
liabilities and net-settled derivative financial if required to meet anticipated funding The utilisation of credit limits is regularly liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based requirements.
on the remaining period from the balance with cash generated from operations, are Significant credit risk existed at balance sheet sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
then on-lent or contributed as equity to certain date in relation to deferred consideration on The amounts disclosed in the table are subsidiaries.
The Board of Directors monitor disposal of a joint venture and banking the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
a number of debt measures including gross counterparties: Balances due within 12 months equal cash by location: gross debt by location: cash their carrying balances, as the impact subject to restrictions: total debt servicing 10m is due in December 2009 for the of discounting is not significant.
cost to operating profit: gross borrowings as last deferred payment in relation to the Between Between a percentage of EBITDA earnings before disposal of Infinergy Limited.
This payment Less than 1 and 2 and interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation : is underwritten by a guarantee provided by m 1 year 2 years 5 years and forecast headroom against available ABN AMRO.
There were no other significant As at 31 December 2008 facilities.
These internal measures indicate receivables or individual trade receivable Borrowings 5.6 5.7 9.7 the levels of debt that the Group has and are balances at 31 December 2008 and Loan notes 7.6 1.1 closely monitored to ensure compliance with 31 December 2007. banking covenants and that the Group has Derivative financial Bank counterparty ratings deteriorated instruments 1.2 sufficient unused facilities.
during the year due to the effects of the credit Trade and other crunch, and as a result our credit risk has payables 145.2 7.4 9.4 increased.
However, no credit limits were 158.4 14.2 20.3 exceeded during the reporting period, and management does not expect any losses from non-performance by these counterparties.
66 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 4.
Critical accounting estimates and Income taxes Valuation of intangible assets and useful life management judgements The Group is subject to income taxes in The Group has made assumptions in Critical accounting estimates and assumptions numerous jurisdictions.
Judgement is required relation to the potential future cash flows to Estimates and judgements are continually in determining the provision for income taxes.
be determined from separable intangible assets evaluated and are based on historical There are transactions and calculations acquired as part of business combinations.
experience, current market conditions and for which the ultimate tax determination is This assessment involves assumptions relating other factors including expectations of future uncertain.
Where the final tax outcome of these to potential future revenues, appropriate events that are believed to be reasonable under matters is different from the amounts that were discount rates and the useful life of such the circumstances.
Actual results may differ initially recorded, such differences will impact assets.
These assumptions impact the from these estimates.
Changes in accounting the income tax and deferred tax provisions income statement over the useful life of the estimates may be necessary if there are in the period in which such determination intangible asset.
changes in circumstances on which the is made.
Provisions estimate was based, or as a result of new Fair value of options granted to employees The Group and its subsidiaries are party to information or more experience.
The estimates The Group uses the Binomial Model in various legal claims.
Provisions made within and assumptions that have a significant risk of determining the fair value of options granted to these financial statements are contained in causing a material adjustment to the carrying employees under the Groups various schemes Note 25 a.
Additional claims could be made amounts of assets and liabilities within the next as detailed in the Remuneration Report.
which might not be covered by existing financial year are discussed below.
Information on such assumptions is contained provisions or by insurance as detailed Pension benefits in Note 27.
The alteration of these assumptions in Note 30.
The present value of the defined benefit may impact charges to the income statement Critical judgements in applying the entitys pension obligations depends on a number over the vesting period of the award.
accounting policies of factors that are determined on an actuarial Estimated impairment of assets The application of the Groups accounting basis using a number of assumptions The Group tests annually whether goodwill policies may require management to make including discount rate.
Any changes in these has suffered any impairment.
All other assets judgements, apart from those involving assumptions will impact the carrying amount are tested for impairment where there are estimates, that can affect the amounts of pension obligations.
The Group determines indicators of impairment.
The recoverable recognised in the consolidated financial the appropriate discount rate at the end of amounts of cash-generating units have been statements.
Such judgements include the each year.
In determining the appropriate determined based on value-in-use calculations.
following areas: discount rate, the Group considers the interest The use of this method requires the estimate rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are Award of options and deferred shares of future cash flows expected to arise from the denominated in the currency in which the to employees continuing operation of the cash-generating benefits will be paid and that have terms to The Group applies judgement in deciding the unit and the choice of a suitable discount rate maturity approximating the terms of the related proportion of the available bonus pool to be in order to calculate the present value.
Other key assumptions for awarded to employees under its long-term outcomes could vary significantly from these pension obligations are based in part on current share-based incentive scheme.
The estimates used in these financial market conditions.
Additional information is current policy is to deduct from the bonus pool statements are contained in Note 15. disclosed in Note 10. an amount equal to the market value of the share price on the date of award.
Under IFRS, the value of award is spread over the vesting period and charged to the income statement.
The charge to the income statement is currently lower than the market value of shares to be awarded.
67 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 5.
Segment analysis Property & Transactional Facilities Fund Financial Unallocated Advice Consultancy Management Management Services Total Year ended 31 December 2008 m m m m m m m Revenue United Kingdom commercial 51.9 76.9 45.5 19.5 1.6 195.4 residential 64.2 24.0 14.7 15.8 118.7 116.1 100.9 60.2 19.5 17.4 314.1 Rest of Europe 34.2 11.5 21.9 67.6 Asia Pacific 56.2 19.4 109.3 184.9 America 1.9 1.9 Total revenue 208.4 131.8 191.4 19.5 17.4 568.5 Operating profit loss United Kingdom commercial 7.1 11.4 4.5 3.9 0.1 9.1 17.7 residential 9.0 20.2 1.5 2.5 1.9 8.3 1.9 31.6 6.0 3.9 2.6 11.0 26.0 Rest of Europe 22.2 0.6 4.4 4.9 32.1 Asia Pacific 1.8 2.0 3.5 7.3 America 11.9 11.9 Operating loss profit 34.2 33.0 5.1 3.9 2.6 15.9 10.7 Finance income Note 11 2.5 Share of post tax profit loss from associates and joint ventures 1.0 1.1 0.9 0.3 0.5 Loss before income tax 7.7 Income tax expense 4.6 Loss for the year 12.3 Year ended 31 December 2007 Revenue United Kingdom commercial 79.4 84.0 38.9 15.4 3.5 221.2 residential 115.0 30.4 12.7 26.3 184.4 194.4 114.4 51.6 15.4 29.8 405.6 Rest of Europe 45.4 10.7 18.1 74.2 Asia Pacific 60.6 16.4 90.0 167.0 America 3.7 3.7 Total revenue 304.1 141.5 159.7 15.4 29.8 650.5 Operating profit United Kingdom commercial 15.9 14.2 3.0 4.1 1.0 3.0 35.2 residential 17.8 5.7 0.7 3.5 27.7 33.7 19.9 3.7 4.1 4.5 3.0 62.9 Rest of Europe 3.9 2.1 0.3 5.7 Asia Pacific 8.9 1.6 4.1 14.6 America 0.2 0.2 Operating profit loss 46.7 23.6 7.5 4.1 4.5 3.0 83.4 Finance income Note 11 2.1 Share of post tax profit loss from associates and joint ventures 1.1 1.4 0.7 0.4 Profit before income tax 85.9 Income tax expense 28.0 Profit for the year 57.9 For the purpose of the segmental information above, and to assist in the comparison of segmental information, the benefit arising from the amortisation of the share-based payment charge as discussed in more detail in Note 14 b is retained within the unallocated segment.
68 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 5.
Segment analysis continued Other segmental items included in the income statement are as follows: Property & Transactional Facilities Fund Financial Unallocated Advice Consultancy Management Management Services Total Year ended 31 December 2008 m m m m m m m Depreciation Note 16 United Kingdom commercial 0.5 1.2 0.7 0.1 0.1 0.6 3.2 residential 1.1 0.2 0.1 1.4 Rest of Europe 0.4 0.2 0.3 0.9 Asia Pacific 0.7 0.1 0.8 1.6 America 0.1 0.1 2.8 1.7 1.9 0.1 0.1 0.6 7.2 Amortisation of intangibles Note 15 United Kingdom commercial 0.7 0.1 0.1 0.2 1.1 residential 0.1 0.1 0.2 Rest of Europe 0.8 0.1 0.9 1.8 Asia Pacific 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.4 America 1.5 1.5 3.2 0.2 1.3 0.1 0.2 5.0 Impairment of intangible assets Note 15 United Kingdom residential 6.2 0.3 0.5 7.0 Rest of Europe 14.1 1.1 2.2 17.4 Asia Pacific 1.6 3.3 4.9 America 7.7 7.7 29.6 1.1 5.8 0.5 37.0 Other exceptional items United Kingdom commercial 16.9 0.8 16.1 residential 5.0 0.7 1.1 6.8 Rest of Europe 0.8 5.4 6.2 5.8 16.9 0.7 7.3 3.1 Other non-cash expenses United Kingdom commercial 2.1 3.5 0.7 0.5 6.8 residential 0.3 1.2 0.3 0.3 2.1 Rest of Europe 1.1 0.1 0.1 1.3 3.5 4.8 1.1 0.3 0.5 10.2 69 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 5.
Segment analysis continued Property & Transactional Facilities Fund Financial Advice Consultancy Management Management Services Unallocated Total Year ended 31 December 2007 m m m m m m m Depreciation Note 16 United Kingdom commercial 0.5 0.8 0.4 0.1 0.1 0.6 2.5 residential 1.1 0.2 0.2 1.5 Rest of Europe 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.6 Asia Pacific 0.6 0.1 0.9 1.6 2.5 1.2 1.7 0.1 0.1 0.6 6.2 Amortisation of intangibles Note 15 United Kingdom commercial 0.6 0.1 0.1 0.2 1.0 residential 0.1 0.1 Rest of Europe 1.0 0.1 0.4 1.5 Asia Pacific 0.1 0.1 0.8 1.0 America 0.5 0.5 2.2 0.2 1.4 0.1 0.2 4.1 Impairment of assets Notes 15 and 17 b United Kingdom commercial 0.3 1.0 1.3 Rest of Europe 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 1.0 1.6 Other non-cash expenses United Kingdom commercial 1.9 1.8 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.3 5.0 residential 2.6 0.9 0.2 3.7 4.5 2.7 0.5 0.3 0.4 0.3 8.7 70 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 5.
Segment analysis continued Property & Transactional Facilities Fund Financial Advice Consultancy Management Management Services Unallocated Total Year ended 31 December 2007 m m m m m m m Segment assets United Kingdom commercial 50.4 36.3 6.7 14.9 20.5 30.6 159.4 residential 79.3 26.7 9.7 115.7 Rest of Europe 65.1 17.1 13.2 95.4 Asia Pacific 49.1 11.2 63.2 5.8 129.3 America 28.9 28.9 272.8 91.3 92.8 14.9 20.5 36.4 528.7 Investment in associates and joint ventures 5.3 0.1 3.5 8.9 Total assets 278.1 91.4 96.3 14.9 20.5 36.4 537.6 Segment liabilities United Kingdom commercial 29.7 25.3 3.5 8.0 13.0 9.3 88.8 residential 50.2 23.8 5.7 79.7 Rest of Europe 22.2 9.5 1.6 33.3 Asia Pacific 26.8 4.3 26.1 57.2 America 8.0 8.0 136.9 62.9 36.9 8.0 13.0 9.3 267.0 Unallocated liabilities tax 13.8 13.8 borrowings 33.2 33.2 Total liabilities 136.9 62.9 36.9 8.0 13.0 56.3 314.0 Segment net assets 141.2 28.5 59.4 6.9 7.5 19.9 223.6 Capital expenditure United Kingdom commercial 0.5 0.6 0.2 0.1 0.2 1.2 2.8 residential 3.8 1.7 0.9 6.4 Rest of Europe 0.8 0.2 1.2 2.2 Asia Pacific 0.7 0.3 1.1 2.1 America 5.0 5.0 10.8 2.8 3.4 0.1 0.2 1.2 18.5 The matrix approach of disclosing both the business and geographical segments as primary reporting formats provides the most useful information, as the Group is strongly affected by both differences in the types of services it provides and the geographical areas in which it operates.
The unallocated segment includes holding company costs, group bonuses and other expenses not directly attributable to the operating activities of the Groups business segments.
Segment assets include property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, receivables and operating cash and mainly exclude investments.
Segment liabilities comprise operating liabilities and exclude taxation and corporate borrowings.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment, including intangible additions resulting from acquisitions through business combinations and separately acquired.
The Group manages its business segments on a global basis.
Operations are based in four main geographical areas.
The UK is the home of the parent Company with segment operations throughout England and Scotland.
Asia Pacific segment operations are based in Hong Kong, Macau, China, Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Thailand, Singapore, Vietnam and Australia.
Europe segment operations are based in Germany, France, Spain, Netherlands, Belgium, Sweden, Italy, Ireland and Poland.
America segment operations are based in New York.
The sales location of the client is not materially different from the location where fees are received and where the segment assets are located.
72 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 6 a.
Operating profit Operating profit, including exceptional items, is stated after charging crediting : Group Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 Other operating expenses include: m m Impairment of available-for-sale investments and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 8.4 1.0 Net foreign exchange gains losses 0.6 0.2 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.7 Operating lease rentals Hire of plant and machinery 2.2 1.4 Property 20.5 16.5 Rental income 0.9 0.8 Other income dividend and investment income 0.2 0.7 Profit on disposals is made up as follows: Profit on disposals Available-for-sale investments 0.5 0.4 Joint ventures 16.9 Associates 0.3 17.4 0.7 6 b.
Income Statement of the Company As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the income statement of the Company is not presented as part of these accounts.
The Company receives dividends from subsidiaries and charges subsidiaries for the provision of Group related services.
The profit after income tax of the Company for the year was 61.0m 2007 37.4m.
6 c. Fees payable to the Companys auditor,  LLP, and its associates: Group Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Audit services Fees payable to Company auditor for the audit of parent Company and consolidated accounts 0.2 0.2 Other services Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.8 0.6 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.3 Tax services 0.4 0.2 Services relating to corporate finance transactions proposed to be entered into by the Company 0.1 0.3 1.5 1.6 73 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 7 a.
Underlying profit before tax Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Reported profit before exceptional items and income tax 26.2 85.9 Adjustments: Amortisation of intangibles excluding software and impairment of goodwill and available-for-sale investments 4.2 5.1 Share-based payment adjustment 3.3 4.8 Profit on disposal of associate, joint ventures and available-for-sale investments 0.5 0.7 Underlying profit before tax 33.2 85.5 The Directors regard the above adjustments necessary to give a fair picture of the underlying results of the Group for the period.
The impairment of goodwill and available-for-sale investments relates to the year to 31 December 2007 which were not considered exceptional.
The adjustment for share-based payment relates to the impact of the accounting standard for share-based compensation.
The annual bonus is paid in a mixture of cash and deferred shares and the proportions can vary from one year to another.
Under IFRS the deferred share element is amortised to the income statement over the vesting period whilst the cash element is expensed in the year.
The adjustment is the difference between the IFRS 2 charge for the schemes that form part of the bonus pool and the value of the annual share award.
Underlying segmental analysis Property & Transactional Facilities Fund Financial Advice Consultancy Management Management Services Unallocated Total Year ended 31 December 2008 m m m m m m m United Kingdom commercial 7.8 10.3 4.6 3.6 0.1 3.1 23.1 residential 2.8 3.2 2.4 0.9 7.5 10.6 13.5 7.0 3.6 1.0 3.1 30.6 Rest of Europe 7.8 0.8 1.2 8.2 Asia Pacific 4.3 2.0 8.4 14.7 America 3.9 3.9 Total underlying profit loss 3.2 16.3 14.2 3.6 1.0 3.1 33.2 Property & Transactional Facilities Fund Financial Advice Consultancy Management Management Services Unallocated Total Year ended 31 December 2007 m m m m m m m United Kingdom commercial 17.7 13.1 3.0 4.1 1.0 5.5 33.4 residential 17.3 5.6 1.6 4.1 28.6 35.0 18.7 4.6 4.1 5.1 5.5 62.0 Rest of Europe 3.8 2.0 0.1 5.9 Asia Pacific 9.6 1.6 6.2 17.4 America 0.2 0.2 Total underlying profit loss 48.6 22.3 10.9 4.1 5.1 5.5 85.5 74 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 8.
Exceptional items Exceptional items comprise the following: Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Redundancy costs 0.6 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Note 15 37.0 Available-for-sale investment impairment Note 17 b 6.9 Diminution in value of asset at fair value through the profit and loss Note 24 1.5 Plant, property and equipment impairment Note 16 1.0 Onerous leases Note 25 a 3.3 Other 0.5 Profit on disposal of joint venture Note 17 a 16.9 Total exceptional items 33.9 During the year, a number of exceptional items have been recognised and charged to the income statement.
To enable a clearer understanding of the Groups underlying performance and to assist comparability between periods, the exceptional items have been separately shown in the income statement.
Recognised in other operating expenses on the face of the income statement.
Employee benefits expense Staff and Directors Group Company Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Basic salaries and wages 231.1 184.5 5.8 4.8 Incentive bonuses and commissions 79.9 152.0 2.4 3.2 311.0 336.5 8.2 8.0 Social security costs 25.7 28.6 0.9 0.8 Other pension costs 10.7 9.1 0.3 0.2 Share-based payments 10.0 8.1 0.4 0.2 357.4 382.3 9.8 9.2 9 b.
Staff numbers The average number of employees including directors during the year was: Group Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 Number Number UK 3,374 3,192 America 33 23 Rest of Europe 837 729 Asia Pacific 15,590 14,085 19,834 18,029 The average number of UK employees including directors during the year included 35 employed under fixed term and temporary contracts 2007 74.
The average number of employees of the Company was 122 2007 127 who are all located in the UK.
75 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 9 c. Key management compensation Group Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Key management Remuneration excluding bonuses 1.1 0.8 Bonuses 1.5 4.8 National Insurance 0.3 0.4 Fees to Non-Executive Directors 0.3 0.3 Total short-term employee benefits 3.2 6.3 Share-based payments 0.8 0.7 4.0 7.0 The key management of the Group comprises Savills plc Board directors and their aggregate compensation is shown above.
Details of directors remuneration are contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 51.
During the year five Executive Directors made gains totalling 0.9m on the exercise of options under the DSBP, ESOP.
The pension annuity for the highest paid Director was 46,813 with no lump sum accrued 2007 44,188 with no lump sum accrued.
Retirement benefits under the defined benefit scheme are accruing for three Directors and benefits are accruing under a defined contribution scheme in Hong Kong for one Executive Director.
Pension scheme Defined contribution plans The Group operates the Savills UK Group Personal Pension Plan, a defined contribution scheme, a number of defined contribution individual pension plans and a Mandatory Provident Fund Scheme in Hong Kong, to which it contributes.
The total pension charges in respect of these plans were 8.4m 2007 6.6m.
Defined benefit plan The Group operates a pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable salary.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group, and invested in managed funds units.
The contributions are determined by an independent qualified actuary on the basis of triennial valuations.
The most recent actuarial valuation completed, using the projected unit method, was as at 5 April 2007.
The assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the valuation are those relating to the rate of return on investments pre-retirement, the rates of increase in salaries and the post-retirement investment return.
The valuation showed that the market value of the schemes assets was 100.7m and that the actuarial value of those assets represented 98% of the benefits that had accrued to members, after allowing for expected future increases in earnings.
The scheme has been closed to new joiners for pension benefits since 1 April 2000.
Group Principal assumptions at 31 December 2008 2007 Expected return on plan assets Equities 7.65% 8.10% Bonds 5.35% 5.00% Property 6.65% 7.10% Other 1.85% 5.35% Expected rate of salary increases 4.80% 5.00% Rate of increase to pensions in payment accrued before 6 April 1997 3.00% 3.00% accrued after 5 April 1997 3.30% 3.40% accrued after 5 April 2005 2.40% 2.40% Rate of increase to pensions in deferment accrued before 6 April 2001 5.00% 5.00% accrued after 5 April 2001 3.30% 3.40% Discount rate 6.30% 5.80% Inflation assumption 3.30% 3.40% 76 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 10.
Pension scheme continued Using post-retirement mortality assumptions, the assured life expectations on retirement at age 60 are as follows: Group 2008 2007 Retiring today Male 87.1 86.3 Female 89.7 88.8 Retiring in 20 years Male 89.2 87.6 Female 91.7 89.9 Sensitivity analysis of the discount rate: Change in assumption Reduce by 0.5% p. a.
Impact on liabilities Increase by 12% The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Fair value of plan assets 85.9 103.4 4.9 5.7 Present value of funded obligations 110.5 113.4 6.3 6.2 Deficit 24.6 10.0 1.4 0.5 Related deferred tax asset 7.0 3.5 0.4 0.2 Net liability 17.6 6.5 1.0 0.3 The amounts recognised in the income statement: Group 2008 2007 m m Current service cost 3.6 3.8 Interest cost 6.7 5.8 Expected return on plan assets 8.0 7.1 Total included in staff costs Note 9 2.3 2.5 All net actuarial gains or losses for each year are recognised in full in the year in which they are incurred in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Change in defined benefit obligation: Group 2008 2007 m m Present value of defined benefit obligation at start of year 113.4 112.1 Current service cost 3.6 3.8 Interest cost 6.7 5.8 Plan participants contributions 1.2 1.2 Actuarial gain 13.6 8.5 Benefits paid 0.8 1.0 Present value of defined benefit obligation at end of year 110.5 113.4 77 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 10.
Pension scheme continued Change in plan assets: Group 2008 2007 m m Fair value of plan assets at start of year 103.4 96.6 Expected return on plan assets 8.0 7.1 Actuarial loss 29.9 2.7 Employer contributions 4.0 2.2 Plan participants contributions 1.2 1.2 Benefits paid 0.8 1.0 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 85.9 103.4 The actual return on plan assets was 21.9 m 2007 4.4m.
The overall expected return on assets is determined as the weighted average of the expected returns on each separate asset class shown below.
The expected return on plan assets is determined by the expected rate of return over the remaining life of the related liabilities held by the scheme.
The expected rate of return on equities is based on market expectations of dividend yields and price earnings ratios.
Expected returns on bonds are based on gross redemption yields as at the balance sheet date.
The amounts recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense: Group 2008 2007 m m Actuarial losses brought forward 8.5 14.3 Net actuarial loss gain for the year 16.3 5.8 Accumulated net actuarial losses 24.8 8.5 The major categories of assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: 2008 2007 Equities 73% 79% Bonds 18% 15% Property 4% 5% Cash 5% 1% Total 100% 100% No plan assets are the Groups own financial instruments or property occupied or used by the Group.
Amounts for the current and previous four years are as follows: 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 m m m m m Plan assets 85.9 103.4 96.6 85.4 60.8 Defined benefit obligation 110.5 113.4 112.1 102.8 81.1 Deficit 24.6 10.0 15.5 17.4 20.3 Experience gain loss on plan liabilities 1% 5% 3% 14% 14% Experience loss gain on plan assets 35% 4% 3% 8% 3% The Group expects to contribute 3.9m 2008 4.2m 0.2m Company, 2008 0.1m to its pension plan in 2009, being 23.8% of pensionable salaries 2008 23.8%.
78 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 11.
Finance income and costs Group Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Bank interest receivable 5.2 4.5 Fair value gain forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps 1.8 Finance income 7.0 4.5 Bank interest payable 3.9 2.3 Fair value loss forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps 0.6 0.1 Finance costs 4.5 2.4 Net finance income 2.5 2.1 12.
Income tax expense Group Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 Analysis of tax expense for the year m m Current tax United Kingdom: Corporation tax at 28.5% 2007 30% 9.6 21.3 Adjustment in respect of previous years 0.9 0.1 8.7 21.4 Foreign tax 3.3 7.2 Adjustment in respect of previous years 0.6 0.2 Total current tax 11.4 28.4 Deferred tax Representing: United Kingdom 3.6 1.0 Foreign tax 3.6 0.9 Adjustment in respect of previous years 0.4 0.5 Total deferred tax Note 18 6.8 0.4 Income tax expense 4.6 28.0 The tax charged to equity is as follows: Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Current tax credit on employee benefits 1.2 3.8 0.1 0.3 Deferred tax on pension actuarial losses gains 4.6 2.0 0.3 0.1 Deferred tax charge on employee benefits 1.1 6.5 0.1 0.4 Deferred tax on revaluations of available-for-sale investments 0.2 0.1 Deferred tax on foreign exchange reserves 0.6 0.2 Tax on items taken directly to reserves 4.3 5.0 0.3 0.2 79 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 12.
Income tax expense continued The tax on the Groups loss profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to profits of the consolidated companies.
The tax for the year is higher 2007 higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 28.5%.
The total tax charge on loss profit can be reconciled to accounting loss profit as follows: Group Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Loss profit before tax 7.7 85.9 Loss profit on ordinary activities multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28.5% 2007 30% 2.2 25.8 Effects of: Adjustments to tax in respect of previous years 1.1 0.6 Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 2.7 2.1 Impact of falling share price below fair value of share awards options at date of grant 1.8 2.1 Income not subject to tax 4.0 0.5 Non-deductible tax losses 0.4 Expenses and other charges not deductible for tax purposes 13.2 3.3 Income tax expense on loss profit 4.6 28.0 The effective tax rate of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2008 is 121% 2007 32.6%.
Dividends Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Amounts recognised as distribution to equity holders in the year: Ordinary final dividend for 2007 of 12.0p per share 2006 11.0p 14.7 13.4 Interim dividend of 6.0p per share 2007 6.0p 7.3 7.3 22.0 20.7 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 of 3p per share 3.7 The final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008 is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2009.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
Under the terms of The Savills plc 1992 Employee Benefit Trust the EBT, the Trustee has waived all but 0.01p of any dividend on each share held by the Trust.
Savills QUEST Trustees Limited, the trustee of the Qualifying Employee Share Trust, has waived all dividends on the shares it holds.
80 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 14 a.
Basic and diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share are based on the profit for the year and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding the shares held by the EBT, 9,742,738 shares 2007 11,164,834 shares and QUEST, 2,154 shares 2007 2,154 shares.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares, being the share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year.
The earnings and the shares used in the calculations are as follows: Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 Earnings Shares EPS Earnings Shares EPS m million pence m million pence Basic earnings per share 11.3 121.7 9.3 55.3 121.6 45.5 Effect of additional shares issuable under option 3.7 3.2 1.2 Diluted earnings per share 11.3 125.4 9.3 55.3 124.8 44.3 14 b.
Underlying basic and diluted earnings per share Excludes exceptional items, impairment of goodwill and available-for-sale investments and amortisation of intangibles, share-based payment adjustment and disposals.
Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 Earnings Shares EPS Earnings Shares EPS m million pence m million pence Basic earnings per share 11.3 121.7 9.3 55.3 121.6 45.5 Exceptional items after tax 29.5 24.3 Basic earnings before exceptionals 18.2 121.7 15.0 55.3 121.6 45.5 Amortisation of intangibles excluding software and impairment of goodwill and available-for-sale investments after tax 3.0 2.5 4.6 3.8 Share-based payment adjustment after tax 2.4 2.0 3.4 2.8 Profit on disposal of associate, joint venture and available-for-sale investments after tax 1.6 1.4 0.5 0.4 Underlying basic earnings per share 22.0 121.7 18.1 56.0 121.6 46.1 Effect of additional shares issuable under option 3.7 0.6 3.2 1.2 Underlying diluted earnings per share 22.0 125.4 17.5 56.0 124.8 44.9 The Directors regard the above adjustments necessary to give a fair picture of the underlying results of the Group for the period.
The adjustment for share-based payment relates to the impact of the accounting standard for share based compensation.
The gross amounts of the above adjustments are profits on disposals 0.5m 2007 0.7m, share-based payment adjustment 3.3m 2007 4.8m and add back of amortisation of intangibles excluding software and impairment of goodwill and available-for-sale investments of 4.2m 2007 5.1m.
81 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 15.
Goodwill and intangible assets Group Company Investment and Customer Property business Management Computer Goodwill relationships Brands contracts software Total Total Acquired goodwill and intangible assets m m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2008 139.6 15.5 5.1 6.5 7.1 173.8 1.5 Acquisitions Note 17 e 11.6 2.4 14.0 Other additions 1.3 1.3 0.5 Initial recognition of deferred tax on intangibles Note 18 1.3 1.8 1.5 4.6 Exchange movement 20.9 2.9 1.7 0.7 1.0 27.2 At 31 December 2008 173.4 22.6 6.8 8.7 9.4 220.9 2.0 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2008 0.9 3.6 1.3 2.0 5.5 13.3 1.1 Amortisation charge for the year 2.2 1.3 0.7 0.8 5.0 0.2 Impairment 32.5 0.5 2.8 1.2 37.0 Exchange movement 6.5 0.7 1.4 0.6 1.2 10.4 At 31 December 2008 39.9 7.0 6.8 4.5 7.5 65.7 1.3 Net book value At 31 December 2008 133.5 15.6 4.2 1.9 155.2 0.7 All intangible amortisation charges in the year are disclosed on the face of the income statement.
The Companys intangible assets consist of computer software.
Group Company Investment and Customer Property business Management Computer Goodwill relationships Brands contracts software Total Total Acquired goodwill and intangible assets m m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2007 100.2 11.0 3.8 6.3 5.9 127.2 1.1 Acquisitions Note 17 e 36.6 4.0 1.0 0.2 0.1 41.9 Other additions 1.0 1.0 0.4 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Exchange movement 2.8 0.6 0.3 0.1 3.8 At 31 December 2007 139.6 15.5 5.1 6.5 7.1 173.8 1.5 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2007 0.3 1.8 0.4 0.9 4.8 8.2 0.9 Amortisation charge for the year 1.7 0.9 0.9 0.6 4.1 0.2 Impairment 0.6 0.6 Exchange movement 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.4 At 31 December 2007 0.9 3.6 1.3 2.0 5.5 13.3 1.1 Net book value At 31 December 2007 138.7 11.9 3.8 4.5 1.6 160.5 0.4 82 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 15.
Goodwill and intangible assets continued During the year, goodwill and intangibles were tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36.
Goodwill and intangibles are allocated to the Groups cash-generating units CGUs identified according to country of operation and business segment.
In most cases, the CGU is an individual subsidiary or operation and these have been separately assessed and tested.
A segment-level summary of the allocation is presented below: Property & Transactional Facilities Fund Financial Advice Consultancy Management Management Services Total m m m m m m United Kingdom 25.8 9.2 5.5 0.4 0.1 41.0 Rest of Europe 36.1 1.7 14.3 52.1 Asia Pacific 10.6 3.2 21.6 35.4 America 24.8 24.8 Total goodwill and intangibles excluding software 97.3 14.1 41.4 0.4 0.1 153.3 Method of impairment testing All recoverable amounts were determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use discounted cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a five-year period.
Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using a terminal value.
Key assumptions Key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations: Market recovery The models used assume that the property markets in which the Group operates begin to recover during 2010.
Discount rate The discount rate applied to cash flows of each CGU is based on the Groups Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC.
WACC is the average costs of sources of financing debt and equity, each of which is weighted by its respective use.
Key inputs to the WACC calculation are the risk free rate, the equity market risk premium the return that Savills shares provide over the risk free rate, beta reflecting the risk of the Group relative to the market as a whole and the Groups borrowing rates.
Group WACC was adjusted for risk relative to the country in which the assets were located.
The risk adjusted pre-tax discount range of rates used in each region for impairment testing are as follows: 2008 2007 Pre-tax discount rate range Pre-tax discount rate range United Kingdom 11.6% 12.4% Rest of Europe 11.6% 12.5% 11.4% Asia Pacific 11.6% 13.4% 10.84% America 12.5% Long-term growth rate To forecast beyond the five years covered by detailed forecasts, a terminal value was calculated, using a long-term growth rate determined at 1.5%.
This reflects managements expectations based on historical growth and current market conditions and does not exceed the long-term growth rate in any country in which the Group operates.
83 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 15.
Goodwill and intangible assets continued Impairment charge Following impairment testing, a 37.0m charge has been recognised through the income statement 2007 0.6m relating to goodwill and intangibles on historical acquisitions where carrying values are no longer supported by the discounted cash flow analysis.
Due to the materiality of the 2008 impairments, these have been treated as exceptional items.
Significant impairments recognised are as follows: Savills America Due to the US investment market slowing dramatically in 2008, an impairment charge has been recognised of 7.7m using a pre-tax discount rate of 12.5%.
This includes accelerated amortisation of 0.6m for the Granite trademark.
Savills Ireland formerly Hamilton Osborne King Irelands economy has weakened significantly following the global credit crisis.
This has limited the debt markets, dampened occupational demand and rapidly slowed down the development cycle.
It has therefore been necessary to impair our investment in Ireland by 15.0m.
This includes 1.9m on the HOK trademark.
A pre-tax discount rate of 12.1% was used.
Savills Korea Total impairment of 4.9m has been recognised using a pre-tax discount rate of 11.79%.
Savills Korea formerly BHPK Following the fall in the investment market in Korea which is unlikely to return to previous levels, an impairment of all the existing goodwill of 1.6m for BHPK has been recognised.
Savills Korea Asset Management formerly KAA The write-down in intangibles of 1.1m for the Korea property management business reflects loss of contracts that were acquired at the date of acquisition, which have since been terminated or deemed no longer profitable.
In addition, 70% of the goodwill has been impaired 2.2m.
Christopher Rowland UK residential business An impairment charge has been recognised for Christopher Rowland with all goodwill written off 3.9m as the agency market has been significantly hit by the economic downturn in the Home Counties.
The pre-tax discount rate used was 11.6%.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions The level of impairment is a reflection of best estimates in arriving at value in use, future growth rates and the discount rate applied to cash flow projections.
Future impairments may be impacted by the following factors: Market conditions the timing and growth expectations for market recovery are key in the determination of the cash flow projections.
Management expect the market to begin to recover during 2010.
If a marked downturn continues beyond this period, further impairments may occur.
Cost base the cost base assumptions reflects managements cost savings measurements undertaken during 2007 and 2008 and assumes limited growth in the fixed cost base going forward.
Commissions and bonuses are correlated to the Groups revenue and profits and the percentage payout.
These are assumed to be consistent with existing rates.
84 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 16.
Property, plant and equipment Equipment Equipment Short and motor and motor Freehold leasehold vehicles vehicles property property Owned Leased Total Group m m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 January 2008 0.4 16.5 38.8 0.2 55.9 Additions 3.2 5.3 8.5 Acquisitions Note 17 e 1.0 0.1 1.1 Disposals 0.2 1.8 0.1 2.1 Exchange movement 0.2 5.8 0.1 5.9 At 31 December 2008 0.4 20.7 48.2 69.3 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2008 7.9 26.2 0.1 34.2 Charge for the year 2.0 5.2 7.2 Impairment 1.0 1.0 Disposals 0.1 1.4 0.1 1.6 Exchange movement 0.1 4.7 4.8 At 31 December 2008 10.9 34.7 45.6 Net book value At 31 December 2008 0.4 9.8 13.5 23.7 The Directors consider that the fair value of plant, property and equipment approximates to carrying value.
The impairment charge of 1.0m arose on the write off of office fit out costs where the properties are no longer in use and the leases have been classed as onerous.
Equipment Equipment Short and motor and motor Freehold leasehold vehicles vehicles property property Owned Leased Total Group m m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 January 2007 0.4 13.1 31.9 0.2 45.6 Additions 4.0 7.5 0.1 11.6 Acquisitions Note 17 e 0.2 0.5 0.7 Disposals 0.8 1.5 0.1 2.4 Exchange movement 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2007 0.4 16.5 38.8 0.2 55.9 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2007 6.6 22.4 0.1 29.1 Charge for the year 1.5 4.7 6.2 Disposals 0.2 1.4 1.6 Exchange movement 0.5 0.5 At 31 December 2007 7.9 26.2 0.1 34.2 Net book value At 31 December 2007 0.4 8.6 12.6 0.1 21.7 85 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 16.
Property, plant and equipment continued Freehold Short Equipment property leasehold and motor owned property vehicles Total Company m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 January 2008 0.1 1.1 7.1 8.3 Additions 0.5 0.5 At 31 December 2008 0.1 1.1 7.6 8.8 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2008 0.2 6.5 6.7 Charge for the year 0.2 0.4 0.6 Impairment 0.6 0.6 At 31 December 2008 1.0 6.9 7.9 Net book value At 31 December 2008 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.9 Impairment relates to fit out of offices where the property lease has been classed as onerous.
Freehold Short Equipment property leasehold and motor owned property vehicles Total Company m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 January 2007 0.1 1.6 6.8 8.5 Additions 0.1 0.4 0.5 Disposals 0.6 0.1 0.7 At 31 December 2007 0.1 1.1 7.1 8.3 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2007 0.2 6.0 6.2 Charge for the year 0.2 0.6 0.8 Disposals 0.2 0.1 0.3 At 31 December 2007 0.2 6.5 6.7 Net book value At 31 December 2007 0.1 0.9 0.6 1.6 86 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 17 a.
Group Investments in joint ventures and associated undertakings Joint ventures Associated undertakings Investment Loans Total Investment Goodwill Total m m m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 January 2008 2.0 4.2 6.2 2.2 0.2 2.4 Additions 0.4 0.4 Transfer to subsidiary 2.1 2.1 Disposal 0.1 0.1 Movement on loans 2.1 2.1 Exchange movement 0.8 0.5 1.3 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2008 1.1 2.5 3.6 2.3 0.2 2.5 Share of profit loss At 1 January 2008 2.0 2.0 2.3 2.3 Groups share of retained loss profit 0.6 0.6 1.1 1.1 Disposal 3.9 3.9 Dividends received 0.5 0.5 0.6 0.6 Exchange movement 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 At 31 December 2008 1.4 1.4 3.4 3.4 Net book value At 31 December 2008 2.5 2.5 5.0 5.7 0.2 5.9 Net book value At 31 December 2007 4.2 4.2 4.5 0.2 4.7 In relation to the Groups interests in joint ventures, the assets, liabilities, income and expenses are shown below: 2008 2007 m m Current assets 2.5 3.4 Non-current assets 2.3 1.6 Current liabilities 2.3 5.2 Minority interests share 0.2 Net assets 2.5 Revenue 6.4 4.3 Expenses 6.8 4.9 Share of income tax 0.2 0.2 Share of post-tax loss from joint ventures 0.6 0.8 In relation to the Groups associated undertakings, the assets, liabilities, income and expenses are shown below: 2008 2007 m m Current assets 9.6 6.8 Non-current assets 4.5 4.1 Current liabilities 7.1 5.2 Non-current liabilities 1.3 1.2 Net assets 5.7 4.5 Revenue 22.0 17.4 Expenses 20.5 15.7 Share of income tax 0.4 0.5 Share of post-tax profit from associates 1.1 1.2 87 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 17 a.
Group Investments in joint ventures and associated undertakings continued On 12 June 2008, the Group disposed of its 50% stake in Infinergy Limited to its joint venture partner.
Proceeds of 13.0m have been received with the remaining 10.0m due in December 2009 which includes interest of 1m.
The deferred payment is underwritten by an ABN AMRO guarantee.
Profit on disposal before tax, net of costs on disposal, was 16.9m.
The joint ventures and associates have no significant liabilities to which the Group is exposed to, nor has the Group any significant contingent liabilities or capital commitments in relation to its interests in the joint ventures and associates.
The market value of the Groups holding in Adventis plc, an associate company, was 2.0m at 31 December 2008 2007 5.5m.
17 b. Available-for-sale investments Group Group 2008 2007 m m At 1 January 21.6 8.8 Additions 3.1 21.8 Subsidiaries acquired Note 17 e 0.1 Revaluation deficit surplus transferred to equity Note 28 0.5 0.6 Disposals 3.6 9.6 Impairment 6.9 1.0 Exchange movement 2.5 0.9 At 31 December 2008 16.2 21.6 Available-for-sale investments comprise the following: Listed securities Asia Pacific equity securities 0.9 1.3 Unlisted securities UK equity securities 1.4 1.4 UK limited partnership 0.7 UK investment funds 3.2 2.6 European investment funds 10.7 15.6 16.2 21.6 An impairment charge of 6.9m has been recognised in relation to Cordea Savills investment funds.
Where the unit price is less than the original unit price we have taken the downward revaluation as an impairment to the income statement.
Even though the funds are mostly five-seven year closed end funds, this approach has been adopted in light of the deterioration of underlying property asset values.
The most significant impairments relate to the Cordea Savills Italian Opportunities Fund 1 2.0m and Cordea Savills Italian Opportunities Fund 2 1.6m.
No amounts were outstanding at 31 December 2008 in relation to the disposal of available-for-sale investments 2007 5.2m.
In 2007 an impairment charge of 1.0m was recognised in relation to the investment in VoxVue Corp. Available-for-sale investments are denominated in the following currencies: Group Group 2008 2007 m m Sterling 4.7 4.7 Euro 10.5 15.6 Other 1.0 1.3 16.2 21.6 At 31 December 2008, the Group held the following available-for-sale investments: Investment Holding Principal activity Savills Investor Syndicate No.
1 entity registered in England and Wales 4.5% Retail investment property fund Pinnacle Regeneration Group plc registered in England and Wales 12.1% Social housing Cordea Savills Dawn Syndication entity registered in England and Wales 1.0% Investment property fund Cordea Savills Student Hall Fund entity registered in Jersey 1.3% Student accommodation property fund Cordea Savills Italian Opportunities Fund 1 entity registered in Luxembourg 0.7% Investment property fund Cordea Savills Italian Opportunities Fund 2 entity registered in Luxembourg 0.4% Investment property fund Serviced Land No.
2 entity registered in England and Wales 2.0% UK land investment fund Cordea Savills German Retail Fund entity registered in Luxembourg 1.5% Retail investment property fund Cordea Savills Nordic Retail Fund entity registered in Luxembourg 8.0% Retail investment property fund Cordea Nichani Indian Opportunities No.
1 LP registered in Mauritius 1.0% Investment property fund 88 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 17 b. Available-for-sale investments continued The Group does not exert significant influence over these businesses, and therefore does not equity account for these investments.
These shareholdings are treated as trade investments and held at fair value.
The fair value of unlisted securities is based on underlying asset values and price earnings models.
The fair value of investment funds is determined by the Fund Managers annual audited financial statements.
As at 31 December 2008 the Group held conditional commitments for investment funds as detailed in Note 29.
17 c. Company Investments in subsidiaries and associated undertakings Shares Loans to in Group Group undertakings undertakings Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2008 17.4 112.0 129.4 Additions 5.0 7.6 12.6 Repayments 8.7 8.7 Exchange movement 6.1 6.1 At 31 December 2008 22.4 117.0 139.4 17 d. Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings The principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings of the Group which, in the Directors opinion principally affect the figures shown in the financial statements, are shown below together with details of their main activities.
Except where otherwise noted, they are whollyowned, have share capital wholly comprised of ordinary shares, are registered in England and Wales, operate in the UK and are consolidated into the Group accounts.
Holding interests are the same as voting interests.
A full list of the Groups subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings is available from the registered office of Savills plc.
Subsidiary undertakings Holding Main activities Cordea Savills LLP 60.0% Provision of fund management Savills Commercial Limited 100.0% Commercial surveyors Savills L&P Limited 100.0% General practice surveyors Prime Purchase Limited 100.0% Property buying company Cordea Savills Investment Management Limited 60.0% Asset manager regulated by FSA Provision of general insurance, mortgage broking and Savills Private Finance Limited 100.0% personal financial planning services regulated by FSA Savills LLC registered in the US 75.0% Property consultants Savills Commercial Ireland Limited registered in Ireland 100.0% Property consultants Savills Residential Ireland Limited registered in Ireland 100.0% Property consultants Savills Consultores Inmobiliarios SA registered in Spain 100.0% Property consultants Savills Immobilien Beratungs GmbH registered in Germany 100.0% Property consultants Savills SA registered in France 99.97% Property consultants Savills Italy SRL registered in Italy 83.4% Property consultants Savills Nederland BV registered in the Netherlands 78.0% Property consultants Savills Sweden AB registered in Sweden 51.0% Property consultants Savills Spolka z Organiczona registered in Poland 83.6% Property consultants Savills Hong Kong Limited registered in Hong Kong 100.0% Mixed practice agency, valuation and research Savills Singapore Pte Limited registered in Singapore 100.0% Property management and agency Savills Japan KK registered in Japan 100.0% Property management and agency Savills Valuation and Professional Services Limited registered in Hong Kong 100.0% Valuation and research Shares interests held indirectly by the Company Limited Liability Partnership From April 2009, the Cordea Savills LLP management members are able to sell their partnership interests and require Savills to sell theirs on the same terms.
Alternatively, Savills may acquire the management interests on the same terms plus 1.
89 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 17 d. Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings continued Subsidiary undertakings Holding Main activities Savills Korea Asset Management Limited formerly Korea Asset Advisors Co Limited registered in Korea 55.0% Property management Savills Korea Co. Limited formerly BHP Korea Limited registered in Korea 55.0% Property agency and consultants Savills Vietnam Limited registered in BVI 64.4% Property management and agency Savills Thailand Limited registered in Thailand 100.0% Property agency, consultants and management Savills Taiwan Limited registered in Taiwan 100.0% Property agency and consultants Joint ventures GES Holdings Limited Macau 50.0% Property management Associated undertakings Hutton Asia Pte Ltd Singapore 48.0% Property agency Adventis Group plc 33.0% Provision of marketing and media services Shares interests held indirectly by the Company Limited Liability Partnership From April 2009, the Cordea Savills LLP management members are able to sell their partnership interests and require Savills to sell theirs on the same terms.
17 e. Acquisitions of subsidiaries During the year, the Group made a number of small acquisitions including the purchase of a further 32.2% shareholding in Savills Vietnam Limited for 4.5m.
Provisional fair value to Group Total Subsidiaries acquired m Property, plant and equipment 1.1 Deferred tax assets 0.1 Current assets: Trade and other receivables 1.4 Cash and cash equivalents 1.5 Total assets 4.1 Current liabilities: Trade and other payables 1.8 Current income tax liabilities 0.2 Net assets 2.1 Minority share of net assets 0.2 Fair value of net assets acquired 1.9 Goodwill Note 15 11.6 Other intangibles Note 15 2.4 Purchase consideration and costs 15.9 Analysis of purchase consideration and costs: Purchase consideration 15.7 Acquisition costs 0.2 15.9 Consideration and costs satisfied by: Cash 11.6 Transfer from investment in joint venture 2.1 Deferred consideration and other payables owing at balance sheet date 2.2 15.9 90 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 17 e. Acquisitions of subsidiaries continued For all acquisitions, there was no difference between the fair value and carrying value of net assets acquired.
Acquisitions have been accounted for using the purchase method.
The Group acquires businesses intended for use on a continuing basis.
Goodwill is attributable to anticipated future operating synergies from the combination with existing businesses and perceived future economic benefits that will be generated from the staff client relationships acquired.
There were no significant changes to the provisional goodwill that arose in the previous year on acquisitions.
The purchase of an additional 32.2% share in Vietnam takes our total shareholding up to 64.4%.
Accordingly, this business is now accounted for as a subsidiary.
Consideration of 4.5m was paid with goodwill on acquisition provisionally determined at 3.7m.
During the year, other businesses were acquired for a cash consideration of 9.2m and deferred consideration of 2.2m.
Goodwill on acquisition of 7.9m has been provisionally determined, and is attributable to key staff and their industry reputation.
Intangible assets of 2.4m have been identified and relate to customer business relationships and other intangibles.
Included in Group operating profit relating to acquisitions is revenue of 3.9m 2007 18.3m, staff costs of 2.8m 2007 9.3m, depreciation of nil 2007 0.2m, amortisation of 0.2m 2007 0.5m and other operating charges of 1.5m 2007 6.1m.
If the date for all acquisitions made during the year had been at the beginning of the year, amounts relating to these acquisitions would have been revenue of 6.0m 2007 21.9m, staff costs of 4.0m 2007 11.6m, depreciation of 0.1m 2007 0.2m, amortisation of 0.2m 2007 1.2m and other operating charges of 2.2m 2007 7.5m.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there are legally enforceable rights to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax relates to the same fiscal authority.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when realised through current tax.
The deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting balances within the same jurisdiction, are as follows: Group Company Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Deferred tax assets Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than 12 months 19.4 9.4 1.1 0.8 Deferred tax asset to be recovered within 12 months 3.0 3.5 0.5 0.6 22.4 12.9 1.6 1.4 Deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax liability to be recovered after more than 12 months 4.7 1.6 Deferred tax liability to be recovered within 12 months 0.8 0.6 5.5 2.2 Deferred tax asset net 16.9 10.7 1.6 1.4 91 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 18.
Deferred income tax continued The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below: Group Company Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m At 1 January asset 10.7 19.2 1.4 1.2 Amount credited to income statement Note 12 6.8 0.4 0.7 Tax charged to equity Note 28 Pension asset 4.6 1.7 0.3 0.1 Employee benefits 1.1 6.4 0.1 0.3 Revaluations of available-for-sale investments 0.2 0.1 Movement on foreign exchange reserves 0.6 0.2 Impact of change in UK tax rate on deferred tax 0.4 0.1 Exchange movement 0.9 Acquired with subsidiaries Note 17 e Initial recognition of deferred tax on previously acquired intangible assets Note15 4.6 As at 31 December asset 16.9 10.7 1.6 1.4 Deferred income tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses and other temporary differences to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through the future taxable profits is probable.
As at the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of 10.0m 2007 8.6m available for offset against future profits.
Deferred tax of 2.2m 2007 1.8m has not been recognised on such losses due to the unpredictability of future income streams.
Included within unrecognised losses are losses of 0.3m that expire within three years, 0.4m that expire within four years, 0.7m that expire in within five years and the remaining 8.6m being available for offset indefinitely.
Deferred income tax liabilities of 10.5m 2007: 8.7m have not been recognised for the withholding tax and other taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries.
Such amounts are permanently reinvested.
Unremitted earnings totalled 76.7m at 31 December 2008 2007: 68.8m.
Accelerated Other capital including Retirement Employee allowances provisions Tax losses benefits benefits Total Deferred tax assets Group m m m m m m At 1 January 2007 0.5 1.7 0.3 7.3 10.8 20.6 Amount charged credited to income statement Note 12 0.2 1.6 0.7 1.7 0.8 Tax charged to equity Note 28 2.0 6.5 8.5 At 1 January 2008 0.7 3.3 1.0 3.6 4.3 12.9 Amount credited charged to income statement Note 12 0.2 2.1 2.8 1.2 0.9 4.8 Tax charged credited to equity Note 28 4.6 1.1 3.5 Exchange movement 0.3 0.8 1.1 Acquired with subsidiaries Note 17 e 0.1 0.1 As at 31 December 2008 0.9 5.7 4.7 7.0 4.1 22.4 92 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 18.
Deferred income tax continued Other including Accelerated provisions and capital foreign exchange allowances reserves Unremitted profits Revaluations Intangible assets Total Deferred tax liabilities Group m m m m m m At 1 January 2007 0.2 0.5 0.2 0.5 1.4 Amount credited charged to income statement Note 12 0.1 0.4 0.1 0.4 Tax charged to equity Note 28 0.2 0.1 0.3 Acquired with subsidiaries Note 17 e 0.1 0.1 At 1 January 2008 0.4 1.1 0.1 0.6 2.2 Amount charged credited to income statement Note 12 0.1 0.6 0.3 1.6 2.0 Tax charged to equity Note 28 0.6 0.2 0.4 Exchange movement 0.3 0.3 Initial recognition of intangible assets Note 15 4.6 4.6 As at 31 December 2008 0.3 1.1 0.4 0.4 3.3 5.5 Net deferred tax asset At 31 December 2008 16.9 At 31 December 2007 10.7 Accelerated Other capital including Retirement Employee allowances provisions benefits benefits Total Deferred tax assets Company m m m m m At 1 January 2007 0.3 0.3 0.6 1.2 Amount charged to income statement 0.1 0.6 0.7 Tax charged to equity Note 28 0.1 0.4 0.5 At 1 January 2008 0.4 0.6 0.2 0.2 1.4 Amount credited to income statement 0.1 0.1 Tax charged to equity Note 28 0.3 0.1 0.2 As at 31 December 2008 0.5 0.6 0.4 0.1 1.6 Net deferred tax asset At 31 December 2008 1.6 At 31 December 2007 1.4 93 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 19.
Trade and other receivables Group Company Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Trade receivables 122.7 146.5 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 10.0 8.1 Trade receivables net 112.7 138.4 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 7.8 8.3 Other receivables 26.5 19.4 0.4 0.2 Income tax 3.5 1.7 Prepayments and accrued income 25.3 38.3 0.9 0.9 164.5 196.1 12.6 11.1 The carrying value of trade and other receivables approximate fair value.
Included in other receivables is 10m due in December 2009 for the last deferred payment in relation to the disposal of Infinergy Limited from Koop Duurzame Energie B. V. a subsidiary of Koop Holding B. V. This payment is underwritten by a guarantee provided by ABN AMRO.
There is no other concentration of credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables as the Group has a large number of clients internationally dispersed with no individual client having a significant amount owing.
No sale proceeds are outstanding at 31 December 2008 on the disposal of available-for-sale investments 2007 5.2m included in other receivables.
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings to the Company are generally charged interest at 1.5% above the base rate.
Inter-company trade receivables are generally cleared within the month.
As at 31 December 2008, trade receivables of 10.0m 2007 8.1m were impaired and provided for.
The individually impaired receivables mainly relate to receivables from clients that have been affected by the uncertain economic conditions where funding and completion have been delayed and cash flow has become uncertain.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: Group 2008 2007 m m Up to 3 months 1.6 1.2 3 to 6 months 2.3 2.6 Over 6 months 6.1 4.3 10.0 8.1 As at 31 December 2008, trade receivables of 35.1m 2007 31.9m were past due but not impaired.
These relate to trade receivables which are past due at the reporting date but are not considered impaired as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: Group 2008 2007 m m Up to 3 months 24.4 23.2 3 to 6 months 5.5 5.7 Over 6 months 5.2 3.0 35.1 31.9 94 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 19.
Trade and other receivables continued The carrying amounts of the Groups trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: Group 2008 2007 m m Sterling 95.1 113.2 Euro 22.4 30.7 Hong Kong dollar 21.4 25.5 Australian dollar 10.8 11.8 Other 14.8 14.9 164.5 196.1 Movement on the provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows: Group 2008 2007 m m At 1 January 8.1 4.7 Provisions for receivables impairment 3.1 4.2 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 3.0 0.8 Exchange movements 1.8 At 31 December 10.0 8.1 The creation and release of the provision for impaired receivables have been included in operating costs in the income statement.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Cash and cash equivalents Group Company Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 36.2 63.6 17.1 6.6 Short-term bank deposits 39.1 47.1 20.2 75.3 110.7 17.1 26.8 The effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits as at 31 December 2008 was 1.6% 2007 4.7% : these deposits have an average maturity of 13 days 2007 14 days.
Cash subject to restrictions in Asia Pacific amounts to 6.6m 2007 13.1m which is cash pledged to banks in relation to property management contracts and cash remittance restrictions in certain countries.
These amounts are not consolidated.
95 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 20.
Cash and cash equivalents continued Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts include the following for the purposes of the cash flow statement: Group Company Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 75.3 110.7 17.1 26.8 Bank overdrafts Note 23 0.3 12.3 75.3 110.4 17.1 14.5 Cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the following currencies: Sterling 24.8 51.7 17.1 26.8 Euro 6.3 14.2 Hong Kong dollar 26.8 25.3 Singapore dollar 4.6 1.7 Thailand baht 0.2 0.1 Australian dollar 1.5 5.0 Chinese renminbi 7.4 5.6 Japanese yen 0.2 0.7 South Korean wan 2.1 2.9 Polish zloty 0.1 1.0 Swedish krona 0.3 0.3 US dollar 0.4 2.2 Vietnam dong 0.6 75.3 110.7 17.1 26.8 21 a.
Trade and other payables current Group Company Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Deferred consideration 1.4 6.1 Trade payables 30.1 35.6 2.4 1.4 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 0.7 13.5 Other taxation and social security 22.0 30.0 0.5 1.2 Other payables 3.6 1.7 Bonus accrual 76.7 122.9 2.0 2.9 Accruals and deferred income 33.4 38.0 1.1 1.8 167.2 234.3 6.7 20.8 21 b.
Tax liabilities current Group Company Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Current income tax liabilities 2.4 11.6 96 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 22.
Trade and other payables non-current Group Company Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Deferred consideration 14.6 12.0 Other payables 0.3 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 15.0 4.5 14.9 12.0 15.0 4.5 23.
Borrowings Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Current Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts due within one year or on demand 5.6 4.6 16.3 Loan notes 7.6 6.1 13.2 10.7 16.3 Non-current Unsecured bank loans 15.3 15.1 15.1 Loan notes 1.1 7.4 16.4 22.5 15.1 During the year ended 31 December 2007, the Group borrowed 19.8m for the acquisition of Granite Partners LLC in the US now rebranded as Savills LLC.
The borrowings are denominated in US dollars.
Interest is fixed at 5.315% via an interest rate swap until maturity date.
At 31 December 2008, at the year end exchange rate, 20.9m was outstanding 2007 19.1m.
USD8m is due within one year.
Repayments are hedged at a fixed exchange rate until August 2009.
In September 2005, 0.8m of the Variable Interest Rate Guaranteed Loan Notes 2005 were issued as part consideration for the acquisition of the business and assets of Brown Harknett International Limited.
As at 31 December 2008, 0.2m were still in issue and due within one year.
In October 2005, 0.3m of the Variable Interest Rate Guaranteed Loan Notes 2005 were issued as part consideration for the acquisition of the business and assets of SY Moorhouse Wright Limited.
As at 31 December 2008, 0.1m were still in issue and due within one year.
In May 2006, 4.3m of the Variable Interest Rate Guaranteed Loan Notes 2006 were issued as part consideration for the acquisition of the business and assets of Blair Kirkman LLP.
As at 31 December 2008, 1.9m were still in issue and due within one year.
In June 2006, 11.5m of the Variable Interest Rate Guaranteed Loan Notes 2006 were issued as part consideration for the acquisition of the business and assets of Hamilton Osbourne King Limited.
As at 31 December 2008, 5.5m were still in issue and due within one year.
In September 2006, 0.6m of the Variable Interest Rate Guaranteed Loan Notes 2006 were issued as part consideration for the acquisition of the business and assets of PCA Management Consultants Limited.
As at 31 December 2008, 0.6m were still in issue.
These are repayable over three years and interest is payable half-yearly.
No amount is due within one year.
In July 2007, 0.6m of the Variable Interest Rate Guaranteed Loan Notes 2007 were issued as part consideration for the acquisition of 65% of the business and assets of Theodor Schone Immobilien.
As at 31 December 2008, 0.4m were still in issue and due within one year.
Interest is payable on redemption.
97 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 23.
Borrowings continued Bank loans are denominated in a number of currencies and bear interest at LIBOR or foreign equivalents as appropriate to the country in which the borrowing is incurred.
The exposure of the Groups borrowings to interest rate changes and the contractual repricing dates at the balance sheet date are: Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Less than 1 year 8.2 23.0 21.9 Between 1 and 2 years 0.5 0.1 Between 2 and 5 years 20.9 10.1 9.5 29.6 33.2 31.4 Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 The maturity of non-current borrowings is as follows: m m m m Between 1 and 2 years 6.7 10.4 4.0 Between 2 and 5 years 9.7 12.1 11.1 16.4 22.5 15.1 The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows: Group 2008 2007 m m Bank overdraft 7.72% 4.14% Bank loans 5.32% 5.72% Loan notes 4.89% 6.25% The carrying amounts of borrowings approximate to fair value.
The carrying amounts of the Groups borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Sterling 2.7 4.5 12.3 US dollar 20.9 19.1 19.1 Euro 6.0 9.0 Australian dollar 0.3 Thailand baht 0.1 Japanese yen 0.2 29.6 33.2 31.4 The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities: Floating rate expiring within one year or on demand 22.2 16.8 10.0 Floating rate expiring between 2 and 5 years 80.0 During the year ended 31 December 2008 the Group arranged a 60m multi-currency revolving credit facility.
This was negotiated in February 2008 and had a maturity of 18 months.
In October 2008 this facility was re-negotiated and replaced with a three year 80m multi-currency revolving credit facility.
As at 31 December 2008 this facility was undrawn.
98 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 24.
Derivative financial instruments Group Company Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities At 31 December 2008 m m m m Financial assets at fair value through income statement Interest rate swaps at fair value 1.2 Forward foreign exchange contracts at fair value 2.6 1.5 Total 2.6 1.2 1.5 Less non-current portion 1.2 Current portion 2.6 1.5 At 31 December 2007 2.0 0.2 0.5 0.2 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss The Group owns a call option to acquire an initial shareholding of 25% in a Russian residential transaction business, Intermark, that was carried at cost of 1.5m.
The option has been fully impaired due to the prospects of this business and its deterioration in value as a direct result of the global economic slowdown dramatically affecting property markets in Russia and the level of Russian investment in UK property.
Interest rate swaps The notional principal amounts of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts in relation to the US borrowing at 31 December 2008 were 20.9m 2007 9.5m.
At 31 December 2008, the fixed interest rate was 5.315%.
The floating rate is USD LIBOR.
Gains and losses on interest rate swaps are recognised in the income statement.
Forward foreign exchange contracts The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2008 were 10.3m 2007 17.3m.
The non-current portion represents contracts that mature in over one year.
Gains and losses on forward foreign exchange contracts are recognised in the income statement.
Hedge of net investments in foreign operations A portion of the Groups US borrowing amounting to USD30m 2007 nil is designated as a hedge on the net investment in the Groups US subsidiary.
The fair value of the total borrowing at 31 December 2008 was 20.9m 2007 19.1m.
The foreign exchange gain of 5.7m on translation of the borrowing to currency at the balance sheet date is recognised in other reserves in equity Note 28.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the derivative assets on the balance sheet.
Financial obligations Savills has granted the minority shareholders in the Netherlands subsidiary a put option over the outstanding shares not already owned by Savills.
This option is exercisable after 12 September 2008 at a market related price.
This option has no fair value, reflecting the low probability of the put being exercised.
On the acquisition of Savills Korea and Savills Korea Asset Management formerly BHPK and KAA respectively, Savills agreed a put and call option with the vendor.
The put and call option is exercisable between 19 December 2008 and 19 December 2010 at a market related price.
This reflects a forward contract with the rights and obligations currently equal and accordingly no fair value has been recognised.
It is anticipated that this option will be exercised in the first half of 2009 and the Group will acquire the remaining 45% shareholding in both companies.
99 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 25 a.
Provisions Professional Dilapidation Onerous indemnity Group provisions leases claims Total Company m m m m m At 1 January 2008 3.2 0.8 4.0 1.6 Provided during the year 2.6 0.3 3.3 6.2 1.1 Utilised during the year 1.6 0.1 1.7 0.9 31 December 2008 4.2 1.0 3.3 8.5 1.8 Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: Group Company m m Current 7.3 1.8 Non-current 1.2 8.5 1.8 4.4m of professional indemnity claims and dilapidation provisions is expected to be paid within one year.
Onerous lease costs of 3.3m 2007 nil have been provided for leases where the expected economic outflow exceeds the future benefits.
2.9m is expected to be paid within one year.
Employee benefit obligations In addition to the defined benefit obligation pension scheme disclosed in Note 10, the following are included in employee benefit obligations: Total Group m At 1 January 2008 6.6 Provided during the year 3.5 Utilised during the year 2.6 Exchange movements 1.2 31 December 2008 8.7 The above provisions relate to holiday pay and long service leave in Asia Pacific and are expected to crystallise within five to seven years of the balance sheet date.
The Company had no employee benefit obligations at 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007.
The above employee benefit obligations have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: Group 2008 2007 m m Current 3.5 2.7 Non-current 5.2 3.9 8.7 6.6 100 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Share capital Group and Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 2008 2007 Authorised and allotted Number of shares Number of shares m m Ordinary shares of 2.5p each: Authorised 202,000,000 202,000,000 5.1 5.1 Allotted, called up and fully paid 131,840,933 131,840,933 3.3 3.3 Movement in allotted, called up and fully paid share capital 2008 2007 Number of shares m Number of shares m At 1 January 131,840,933 3.3 135,085,892 3.4 Allotted to employees under The Savills Executive Share Option Scheme 189,000 Allotted to direct participants on exercise of options under the Savills Sharesave Scheme 66,041 Repurchased for cancellation 3,500,000 0.1 At 31 December 131,840,933 3.3 131,840,933 3.3 At the Annual General Meeting held on 7 May 2008, the shareholders gave the Company authority, subject to stated conditions, to purchase for cancellation up to 13,184,093 of its own ordinary shares AGM held on 9 May 2007 13,162,999.
Such authority remains valid until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or 1 July 2009 whichever is the earlier.
Share-based payment Details of the terms of the following schemes are contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 51.
The following share options, without exercise price, have been granted under the Savills plc 1992 Executive Share Option Scheme the ESOP and were outstanding at 31 December 2008: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 Number of Number of shares shares Date of grant Exercise period 000 000 6 April 2001 2 years from 6 April 2006 210 210 A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2008 is shown below: 2008 2007 Weighted Weighted average average Number of share price Number of share price shares at date shares at date 000 of exercise 000 of exercise Outstanding at 1 January 210 850 Exercised 210 354.1p 640 531.0p Outstanding at 31 December 210 Exercisable at 31 December 210 The weighted average exercise price for options granted under this scheme is nil 2007 nil.
101 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 27.
The following share options have been granted under the Savills Executive Share Option Scheme 2001 and were outstanding at 31 December 2008: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 Number of Number of shares shares Date of grant Exercise period Exercise price 000 000 30 March 2004 7 years from 30 March 2007 Unapproved 217.8p 46 46 14 March 2005 7 years from 14 March 2008 Approved 321.3p 37 47 14 March 2005 7 years from 14 March 2008 Unapproved 321.3p 91 117 13 March 2006 7 years from 13 March 2009 Unapproved 596.0p 100 100 16 April 2008 7 years from 16 April 2011 Approved 300.1p 10 16 April 2008 7 years from 16 April 2011 Unapproved 300.1p 187 471 310 A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2008 is shown below: 2008 2007 Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average shares exercise shares exercise 000 price 000 price Outstanding at 1 January 310 394.5p 499 327.8p Granted 197 300.1p Forfeited 36 321.3p Exercised 189 217.8p Outstanding at 31 December 471 360.7p 310 394.5p Exercisable at 31 December 174 293.9p 46 217.8p The weighted average share price on the date of exercise during the year was nil 2007 599.3p and total consideration of nil 2007 0.4m was received.
27 c. During the year nil shares 2007 66,041 shares were allotted direct to participants and nil shares 2007 nil shares were transferred from the Qualifying Employee Share Trust on the exercise of options under the Savills Sharesave Scheme.
The following table shows the options remaining outstanding as at 31 December 2008, 750,486 shares 2007 564,648 shares having lapsed.
No shares 2007 66,041 shares for consideration of 42,404 were exercised during the year.
31 December 31 December 2008 2007 Number of Number of shares shares Date of grant Exercise price Exercise period 000 000 5 May 2006 510.5p 01.07.09 01.01.10 227 353 31 October 2007 318.0p 01.12.10 01.06.11 1,026 1,650 1,253 2,003 A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2008 is shown below: 2008 2007 Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average shares exercise shares exercise 000 price 000 price Outstanding at 1 January 2,003 352.0p 974 475.2p Granted 1,660 318.0p Forfeited expired 750 350.4p 565 510.5p Exercised 66 64.2p Outstanding at 31 December 1,253 352.9p 2,003 352.0p Exercisable at 31 December The weighted average share price on the date of exercise during the year was nil 2007 589.6p.
102 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 27.
Share-based payment continued 27 d. During the year no shares 2007 nil were either allotted to Savills QUEST Trustees Limited, the trustee of the Qualifying Employee Share Trust, or transferred 2007 nil to participants on the exercise of options under the Savills Sharesave Scheme.
At 31 December 2008 the Trust held 2,154 shares 2007 2,154 shares of Savills plc.
27 e. The following awards of deferred shares, without exercise price, have been granted under the Savills Deferred Share Bonus Plan the DSBP and were outstanding at 31 December 2008: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 Number of Number of shares shares Date of award Deferred period Vesting date 000 000 14 March 2003 5 years 14 March 2008 1,094 15 March 2004 5 years 15 March 2009 903 955 14 March 2005 5 years 14 March 2010 1,065 1,103 13 March 2006 3 years 13 March 2009 621 688 13 March 2006 5 years 13 March 2011 34 34 19 March 2007 3 years 19 March 2010 802 847 19 March 2007 5 years 19 March 2012 635 671 17 March 2008 3 years 17 March 2011 2,447 17 March 2008 5 years 17 March 2013 1,386 7,893 5,392 As at 31 December 2008, 459 2007 330 individuals held outstanding awards under the DSBP.
Awards made under the DSBP from 2006 onwards are subject to rolled-up dividends whereby the number of shares awarded will be increased on the vesting date to reflect dividends paid to shareholders throughout the deferred period.
A reconciliation of award movements over the year to 31 December 2008 is shown below: 2008 2007 Weighted Weighted average average Number of share price Number of share price shares at date shares at date 000 of exercise 000 of exercise Outstanding at 1 January 5,392 5,357 Granted 3,976 1,565 Forfeited expired 321 137 Exercised 1,154 311.7p 1,393 669.8p Outstanding at 31 December 7,893 5,392 Exercisable at 31 December 5 The weighted average exercise price for awards granted under this scheme is nil 2007 nil.
Awards over 5,390 shares were exercisable under this scheme as at 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 nil.
103 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 27.
Share-based payment continued 27 f. The following awards of deferred shares, without exercise price, have been granted under the Savills Deferred Share Plan the DSP and remained outstanding at 31 December 2008: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 Number of Number of shares shares Date of grant Deferred period Vesting date 000 000 10 October 2006 3 years 10 October 2009 78 84 10 October 2006 5 years 10 October 2011 504 554 19 March 2007 3 years 19 March 2010 388 406 19 March 2007 5 years 19 March 2012 37 37 17 September 2007 3 years 17 September 2010 170 189 17 September 2007 5 years 17 September 2012 12 12 17 March 2008 3 years 17 March 2011 693 17 March 2008 5 years 17 March 2013 37 23 September 2008 3 years 23 September 2011 138 7 October 2008 3 years 7 October 2011 42 2,099 1,282 As at 31 December 2008, 109 individuals 2007 102 held outstanding awards under the DSP.
Awards made under the DSP are subject to rolled-up dividends whereby the number of shares awarded will be increased on the vesting date to reflect dividends paid to shareholders through the deferred period.
A reconciliation of award movements over the year to 31 December 2008 is shown below: 2008 2007 Weighted Weighted average average Number of share price Number of share price shares at date shares at date 000 of exercise 000 of exercise Outstanding at 1 January 1,282 665 Granted 967 652 Forfeited expired 96 35 Exercised 54 270p Outstanding at 31 December 2,099 1,282 Exercisable at 31 December 17 The weighted average exercise price for awards granted under this scheme is nil 2007 nil.
104 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 27.
Share-based payment continued Fair value of options Options and awards for the DSBP, Sharesave Scheme and ESOS were valued at fair value using the Actuarial Binominal model of Lane Clark & Peacock actuaries.
The key assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: Risk free rate 3.6% p. a.
5.0% p. a. depending on grant date and expected life Volatility 28% p. a.
38% p. a. depending on grant date Employee turnover 2.5% p. a. for DSBP and Sharesave and zero for ESOS Early exercise 50% of employees exercise early when options and awards are 20% in the money Performance criteria All vest after three years only relevant for ESOS The expected volatility is measured over the three or five years prior to the date of grant to match the vesting period of the award.
The risk free rate is the yield on a zero coupon UK government bonds at each grant date, with term based on the expected life of the option or award.
After deferred tax, the charge was 9.2m 2007 7.9m.
105 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 28.
Reconciliation of changes in equity Attributable to equity holders of the Group ShareTotal based Currency Capital shareShare Share payments translation Revaluation redemption Treasury Retained holders Minority Total capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserve shares earnings equity interest equity m m m m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2008 3.3 83.0 15.8 2.2 1.4 0.3 34.6 146.3 217.7 5.9 223.6 Total recognised income and expense for the period 25.9 0.4 22.7 2.8 0.6 2.2 Employee share option scheme: Value of services provided 10.0 10.0 10.0 Exercise withdrawal of options 1.5 3.8 2.3 Dividends 22.0 22.0 3.1 25.1 Disposals net of tax 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 Acquisitions 0.2 0.2 Balance at 31 December 2008 3.3 83.0 24.3 28.3 0.9 0.3 30.8 99.3 208.6 2.4 211.0 Included within retained earnings on the face of the balance sheet is tax on items taken directly to equity Note 12, share-based payments reserve, treasury shares and retained earnings as disclosed above.
Attributable to equity holders of the Group ShareTotal based Currency Capital shareShare Share payments translation Revaluation redemption Treasury Retained holders Minority Total capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserve shares earnings equity interest equity m m m m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2007 3.4 82.4 8.5 3.1 1.1 0.2 15.7 131.7 208.5 4.3 212.8 Total recognised income and expense for the period 5.4 0.5 56.5 62.4 2.6 65.0 Employee share option scheme: Value of services provided 7.5 0.6 8.1 8.1 Exercise of options 0.2 0.2 Issue of share capital 0.4 0.4 0.4 Purchase of own shares 0.1 0.1 21.8 21.8 21.8 Purchase of treasury shares 18.9 18.9 18.9 Dividends 20.7 20.7 1.4 22.1 Disposals net of tax 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.3 Acquisitions 0.4 0.4 Balance at 31 December 2007 3.3 83.0 15.8 2.2 1.4 0.3 34.6 146.3 217.7 5.9 223.6 106 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 28.
Reconciliation of changes in equity continued Attributable to equity holders of the Company ShareTotal Currency based Capital sharetranslation Share Share payments redemption Other Retained holders reserve capital premium reserve reserve reserves earnings equity m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2008 3.3 83.0 0.8 0.3 3.0 21.8 112.2 Total recognised income and expense for the period 2.6 60.4 63.0 Employee share option scheme: Value of services provided 0.4 0.4 Exercise of options 0.1 3.8 3.9 Lapse of options 0.1 0.1 Distribution for Employee Benefit Trust 0.9 0.9 Dividends 22.0 22.0 Balance at 31 December 2008 3.3 83.0 1.1 2.6 0.3 3.0 55.6 148.9 Balance at 1 January 2007 3.4 82.4 0.6 0.2 3.0 26.8 116.4 Total recognised income and expense for the period 37.6 37.6 Employee share option scheme: Value of services provided 0.2 0.2 Exercise of options 0.2 0.1 0.1 Issue of share capital 0.4 0.4 Purchase of own shares 0.1 0.1 21.8 21.8 Dividends 20.7 20.7 Balance at 31 December 2007 3.3 83.0 0.8 0.3 3.0 21.8 112.2 Included within retained earnings on the face of the balance sheet is tax on items taken directly to equity Note 12, share-based payments reserve and retained earnings as disclosed above.
Capital commitments Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided in the financial statements 1.8 6.2 At 31 December 2008 the Group held a conditional commitment to co-invest 0.8m in the Cordea Savills UK Ventures Fund and 1.0m in the Cordea Savills Nordic Retail Fund.
Contingent liabilities In common with comparable professional services businesses, the Group is involved in a number of disputes in the ordinary course of business.
Provision is made in the financial statements for all claims where costs are likely to be incurred and represents the cost of defending and concluding claims.
The Group carries professional indemnity insurance and no separate disclosure is made of the cost of claims covered by insurance as to do so could seriously prejudice the position of the Group.
107 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 31.
Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments Property leases Other leases Total 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 Group m m m m m m Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: Within one year 17.3 13.9 2.2 1.4 19.5 15.3 In one to five years 55.2 46.7 2.9 1.9 58.1 48.6 After five years 36.3 28.1 0.6 0.1 36.9 28.2 108.8 88.7 5.7 3.4 114.5 92.1 Property leases Other leases Total 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 Company m m m m m m Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: Within one year 0.7 0.5 0.7 0.5 In one to five years 2.4 2.0 2.4 2.0 After five years 0.2 0.2 3.1 2.7 3.1 2.7 Significant operating leases relate to the various property leases for Savills offices in the United Kingdom, Europe and Asia.
There are no significant non-cancellable subleases.
A provision of 3.3m has been recognised as part of exceptional items Note 8 in the income statement in relation to onerous property leases in the UK and Europe.
Cash generated from operations Group Company Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Loss profit for the year 12.3 57.9 61.0 37.4 Adjustments for: Income tax Note 12 4.6 28.0 0.9 0.1 Depreciation Note 16 7.2 6.2 0.6 0.8 Amortisation of intangibles Note 15 5.0 4.1 0.2 0.2 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.7 0.4 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investments included within other income 0.7 Impairment of assets Note 15, 17 b and 24 37.0 1.6 1.0 Profit on disposal of associate, joint ventures and available-for-sale investments 17.4 0.7 Other exceptional items 13.8 0.6 Net finance income Note 11 2.5 2.1 3.6 1.2 Share of post-tax profit from associates and joint ventures Note 17 a 0.5 0.4 Dividend in specie from subsidiary 42.1 Exchange movement on operating activities 0.6 Increase in provisions 0.9 0.4 0.2 0.4 Decrease increase in employee and retirement obligations 1.5 0.2 Charge for share-based compensation 10.0 8.1 0.3 0.3 Exercise of share options 3.8 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 45.2 103.3 12.5 39.4 Decrease in work in progress 0.3 0.4 Decrease increase in current trade and other receivables 71.6 20.4 1.6 4.7 Decrease increase in current trade and other payables 103.0 41.0 8.2 27.3 Cash generated from operations 14.1 124.3 2.7 16.8 108 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 33.
Reconciliation of opening to closing cash net of debt Non-cash flow Exchange movements At 1 January Cash flows movement At 31 December For the year ended 31 December 2008 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 110.7 50.9 15.5 75.3 Bank overdrafts 0.3 0.3 110.4 50.6 15.5 75.3 Bank loans 19.4 6.9 8.4 20.9 Loan notes 13.5 4.0 0.8 8.7 Cash and cash equivalents net of debt 77.5 39.7 7.9 45.7 Non-cash flow Exchange movements At 1 January Cash flows movement At 31 December For the year ended 31 December 2007 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 124.1 14.5 1.1 110.7 Bank overdrafts 0.4 0.1 0.3 123.7 14.4 1.1 110.4 Bank loans 1.0 18.3 0.1 19.4 Loan notes 17.9 0.6 5.8 0.8 13.5 Cash and cash equivalents net of debt 104.8 0.6 26.9 0.2 77.5 34.
Related party transactions The Group is controlled by Savills plc, a company registered in England and Wales.
Marketing services were provided by Adventis plc, an associate company, to Savills L&P Limited at an arms-length value of 5.6m 2007 8.9m.
The Company provided corporate function services to its subsidiaries at an arms-length value of 11.2m 2007 13.3m.
Dividends received from subsidiaries were 37.5m 2007 44.5m.
Amounts outstanding as at 31 December 2008 are disclosed in Notes 19 and 21.
Loans to related parties Loans to associates and joint ventures are disclosed in Note 17 a.
All loans to associates and joint ventures are non-interest bearing.
Major non-cash transactions No loan notes were issued during the year for part consideration of acquisitions 2007 0.6m.
Savills plc Introduction Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2008 Who We Are Report and Accounts 2008 Shareholder Information Introduction Shareholder Information Contents Savills is a global real estate service provider listed Key dates for 2009 Our Business on the London Stock Exchange.
Throughout the Date Chairmans Statement 01 Group Overview 02 Ex-dividend date 8 April Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa and the Middle Review of Operations 04 Record date 14 April East, we offer a broad range of specialist advisory Marketplace 06 Annual general meeting 6 May Group Strategy 09 and transactional services to our clients.
Key Performance Indicators 12 Payment of final dividend 13 May Segmental Reviews 14 We take pride in the success of our entrepreneurial Financial half year end 30 June Financial Review 24 Announcement of half year results 27 August culture which rewards innovative thinking and which Our Responsibilities 26 Risk and Uncertainties has enabled us to hire and retain many of the most Auditors Website Professional Facing the Business 30 Pricewaterhouse able people in our industry.
This approach, combined Visit our investor relations website advisers Coopers LLP Our Governance www.
com, for full up-to-date investor and service with our sector knowledge and global network, 1 Embankment Place relations information, including the latest share providers Board of Directors 32 London WC2N 6RH price, recent annual and half year reports, gives our clients access to real estate expertise Directors Report 34 Solicitors results presentations and financial news.
Corporate Governance Report 36 Stockbrokers ashurst of the highest calibre.
Remuneration Report 42 RBS Hoare Govett Shareholder enquiries Broadwalk House Limited Directors Responsibilities 52 For shareholder enquiries please contact 5 Appold Street We seek to focus on a defined set of clients and 250 Bishopsgate our Registrars, Equiniti.
For general enquiries London EC2A 2HA Independent Auditors Report 53 London EC2M 4AA contact 0871 384 2018 between 08.30 and business areas, offering a premium service to Registrars Our Results 17.30 on each business day.
For further Principal Bankers Equiniti organisations and individuals with whom we share administrative queries in respect of your Consolidated Income Statement 54 Barclays Bank Plc Aspect House shareholding please access our Registrars Balance Sheets 55 a common goal.
Savills is synonymous with a high 1 Churchill Place Spencer Road website at www.
co. uk Statements of Cash Flows 56 London E14 5HP Lancing quality service offering and premium brand which Statements of Recognised Electronic communications West Sussex Income and Expense 57 takes a long-term view and invests in strategic If you would prefer to receive shareholder BN99 6DA Notes to the Financial Statements 58 communications electronically in future, relationships.
We are constantly evolving our ways Shareholder Information ibc including your annual and half-yearly reports of working, developing structures and systems and notices of meetings, please visit our Registrars website, www.
co. uk to ensure we deliver the highest service, with the and follow the link to Sign up for paper-free communications.
greatest efficiency, to our clients.
Reported results 08 07 Revenue 568.5m 650.5m Design and production: Radley Yeldar | ry.
com Print: Granite Underlying profit before tax 33.2m 85.5m 4 think bright is produced with 100% ECF Elemental Chlorine Free pulp that is sourced from carefully managed Underlying basic earnings per share 18.1p 46.1p and renewed commercial forests, certified in accordance with the FSC Forest Stewardship Council.
The range Total dividend per share 9.0p 18.0p is fully recyclable and manufactured within a mill which is TTCOC2238 registered under the British quality standard of BS EN ISO Shareholders funds 211.0m 223.6m 90012000 and the environmental standard of ISO 14001.
Savills plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Savills plc Savills plc 20 Grosvenor Hill Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Berkeley Square London W1K 3HQ T: 44 0 20 7499 8644 F: 44 0 20 7495 3773 www.
com Registered in England No.
2122174 Providing World-Class Real Estate Solutions
