58 Key assumptions and sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in The calculations of the recognised assets and liabilities from conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates such plans are based upon statistical and actuarial calculations.
and assumptions that affect the application of policies and In particular the present value of the defined benefit obligation is reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income, expenses and impacted by assumptions on discount rates used to arrive at the related disclosures.
The estimates and underlying assumptions present value of future pension liabilities, and assumptions on are based on historical experience and various other factors future increases in salaries and benefits.
Furthermore, the groups that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
independent actuaries use statistically based assumptions covering This forms the basis of making the judgements about carrying areas such as future withdrawals of participants from the plan and values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from estimates on life expectancy.
The actuarial assumptions used may other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
differ materially from actual results due to changes in market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an or shorter life spans of participants and other changes in the ongoing basis.
Changes in accounting estimates may be necessary factors being assessed.
These differences could impact the assets if there are changes in the circumstances on which the estimate or liabilities recognised in the balance sheet in future periods.
was based, or as a result of new information or more experience.
The last triennial valuation of the main UK pension scheme took Such changes are recognised in the period in which the estimate place in February 2007. is revised.
c Income taxes The key assumptions about the future and key sources of At 31st December 2008, the net liability for current income taxes estimation uncertainty that have a risk of causing a material is 12.2 million and the net liability for deferred income taxes is adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities within 56.2 million as disclosed in note 20.
Estimates may be required the next 12 months are described below.
in determining the level of current and deferred income tax assets a Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, and liabilities, which management believes are reasonable and including goodwill adequately recognises any income tax related uncertainties.
The group has property, plant and equipment with a carrying Various factors may have favourable or unfavourable effects on the value of 576.6 million note 10, goodwill with a carrying value income tax assets and liabilities.
These include changes in tax laws, of 488.0 million note 8 and intangible assets with a carrying tax rates, interpretations of existing tax laws, future levels of value of 55.6 million note 9.
These assets are reviewed spending and in overall levels of future earnings.
annually for impairment as described above intangible assets and property, plant and equipment sections.
To assess if any d Share-based payments impairment exists, estimates are made of the future cash flows The economic cost of awarding shares and share options to expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual employees is reflected by recording a charge in the income disposal.
Actual outcomes could vary from such estimates of statement equivalent to the fair value of the benefit awarded over discounted future cash flows.
Factors such as changes in the the vesting period.
The fair values of the awards are determined planned use of buildings, machinery or equipment, or closure by use of the Black-Scholes and Monte-Carlo models.
of facilities, the presence or absence of competition, or lower e Provisions than anticipated sales could result in shortened useful lives Provisions for vacant properties, restructuring costs and legal claims or impairment.
are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive b Pensions and other post-employment benefits obligation as a result of past events and it is more likely than The group operates a number of defined benefit schemes within not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the the UK and the Continent note 32.
As at 31 December 2008 the obligation: and the amount has been reliably estimated.
present value of the groups defined benefit obligation for funded plans was a surplus of 2.0 million and a deficit of 25.5 million for unfunded plans.
