105 Advisers Investment Bankers Dresdner Kleinwort NM Rothschild & Sons Stockbrokers JPMorgan Cazenove Oriel Securities Solicitors Slaughter and May, London Auditors  LLP, London Registrars Equiniti Limited Financial calendar Interim results announced August Final results announced February Ordinary interim dividend paid October Ordinary final dividend paid May Annual general meeting April Shareholder information Enquiries relating to shareholders, such as queries concerning notification of change of address, dividend payments and lost share certificates, should be made to the companys registrars.
The company has a share account, management and dealing facility for all shareholders via Equiniti Limited Shareview.
This offers shareholders secure access to their account details held on the share register to amend address information and payment instructions directly, as well as providing a simple and convenient way of buying and selling the companys ordinary shares.
For internet services visit www.
co. uk or the investor relations sections of the companys website www.
The Shareview Dealing service is available online at www.
co. uk dealing or by telephone on 08456 037037 between 8.30 am and 4.30 pm Monday to Friday.
The best way to ensure that dividends are received as quickly as possible is to instruct the Companys registrars to pay them directly into a bank or building society account: tax vouchers are then mailed to shareholders separately.
Dividend mandate forms are available from the registrars either from their website www.
co. uk or by telephone on the General Shareholder Helpline number 0871 384 2179.
This method also avoids the risk of dividend cheques being delayed or lost in the post.
Website Financial information about the company including the Annual and Interim reports, public announcements and share price data is available from the companys website at www.
co. uk, which also contains further information about the group and links to the websites of its subsidiaries.
co. uk Sophus Berendsen www.
com FSC Forest Stewardship Council.
This ensures there is an Radley Yeldar www.
com audited chain of custody from the tree in the wellDesign and production.
managed forest through to the nished document in the CTD printing factory.
CTD are FSC and ISO 14001 certied.
The document is printed on Era Silk, which ISO 14001 A pattern of control for an environmental is produced from 50% genuine waste pulp, the balance being ECF pulp from wellmanagement system against which an organisation can managed certied forests.
The paper is also FSC certied and manufactured at an be credited by a third party.. ISO 14001 accredited mill.
