46 Directors responsibilities for the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The group and parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group and of the profit or loss of the company and group for that period.
The financial statements on pages 48104 have been prepared on a going concern basis, suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made and applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the group and company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the parent company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
This statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditors Report, is made with a view to distinguishing for members the respective responsibilities of the directors and the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
A copy of the financial statements annual report is on the companys website at www.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website, and the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters.
Accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were placed on the website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
12, each of the directors confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: i the financial statements of the group, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, and the financial statements of the company, prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and ii the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
The directors and their functions are listed on page 31.
By order of the board David Lawler Company Secretary 26th February 2009 Financial statements 48 Independent auditors report 49 Consolidated income statement 50 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 51 Consolidated balance sheet 52 Consolidated cash flow statement 53 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements 58 Key assumptions and sources of estimation uncertainty 59 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 96 Parent company financial statements 97 Accounting policies to the parent company financial statements 99 Notes to the parent company financial statements 103 Independent auditors report for the parent company 104 Five year record
