53 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements Basis of preparation The group financial statements have been prepared in accordance Consolidation with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements adopted by the European Union, IFRIC interpretations and the of the company and all its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are all entities Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under over which the group has the power to govern the financial and IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of under the historical cost convention, as modified by the assets more than one half of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully held for sale and financial assets and liabilities including derivative consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to instruments at fair value through the income statement.
the group and are fide-consolidated from the date on which control ceases.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies, set out below, which have been All intra-group transactions are eliminated as part of the consistently applied to all the years presented, except for those consolidation process.
where IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, permitted companies adopting IFRS for Business combinations the first time to take exemptions.
Under the requirements of IFRS 3, all business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method acquisition The interpretation IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 group and treasury share accounting.
The cost of a business acquisition is the aggregate transactions, is effective for accounting periods beginning on of fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities or after 1st January 2008 but has no impact on the group.
incurred or assumed, equity instruments issued by the acquirer The impact of IFRIC 14, IAS 19 the limit on a defined benefit and any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
asset, minimum funding requirement and their interaction, has The cost of a business combination is allocated at the acquisition also been assessed and determined to have no material impact date by recognising the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and on the group in the current year.
contingent liabilities that satisfy the recognition criteria, at their fair values at that date.
The acquisition date is the date on which the The following Standards and Interpretations which have not acquirer effectively obtains control of the acquiree.
An intangible been applied to these financial statements have been published asset, such as customer contracts, brands, patents or royalties, is but are not effective until accounting periods beginning on recognised if it meets the definition of an intangible asset in IAS 38 1st July 2008 or later and in some cases have not yet been Intangible assets, and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Their expected impact is still being assessed The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the in detail by management: groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded Amendment to IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value measurement, and IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, of the groups share of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, on the Reclassification of financial assets.
the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Amendment to IFRS 2, Share-based payments on Vesting Non-current assets held for sale conditions and cancellations.
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale IAS 1 revised, Presentation of financial statements.
are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair values less IAS 23 revised, Borrowing costs.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held Amendment to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale measurement on Eligible hedged items.
transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition Annual improvements to IFRSs.
is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and Amendment to IFRS 1 First time adoption of IFRS and IAS 27 the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in Consolidated and separate financial statements on the its present condition.
Management must be committed to the Cost of an investment in a subsidiary, jointly controlled entity sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a or associate.
completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Amendment to IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation, and IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements on Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation.
IAS 27 revised, Consolidated and separate financial statements.
IFRIC 15, Agreements for the construction of real estate.
IFRIC 16, Hedges of a Net Investment in a foreign operation.
IFRIC 17, Distribution of non-cash assets to owners.
54 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements continued Segment reporting Textile assets such as garments and linen and washroom A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged equipment which are owned by the group entities where in providing services that are subject to risks and returns that are substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of such different from those of other business segments.
A geographical equipment is retained by group entities are capitalised as fixed segment is engaged in providing services within a particular assets and depreciated over their estimated useful lives.
economic environment that is subject to risks and returns Depreciation of assets is calculated using the straight line method that are different from those of segments operating in other to allocate the cost of each asset to its residual value over its economic environments.
estimated useful life, as follows: Based on the risks and returns, the directors consider that the a Land and buildings primary reporting format is by business segment and that the Depreciated at a rate of 2% per annum on an estimate of the secondary reporting format is by geographical analysis by origin buildings value of freehold properties and leasehold properties with and destination.
50 or more years unexpired at the balance sheet date.
This rate has During the year, the directors reassessed the number of been determined having regard to the groups practice to maintain reportable segments presented and created a new segment these assets in a continual state of sound repair and to extend for Clinical solutions and decontamination.
and make improvements from time to time.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Short leasehold land and buildings are depreciated by Foreign currency translation equal instalments over the period of the lease.
a Functional and presentation currency Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful life Items included in the financial statements of each of the of the related asset or to the scheduled date of the next major groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary renovation, whichever is sooner.
economic environment in which the entity operates the b Plant and machinery functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are Depreciated at rates of 10% to 50% per annum, depending on presented in sterling, which is the companys functional and the class of the asset.
c Textile assets and washroom equipment b Group companies Depreciated at rates of 20% to 33%, depending on class of asset, The results of group entities that have a functional currency and augmented where necessary by amounts to cover wastage, different from the presentation currency sterling are translated obsolescence and loss.
into sterling at the average exchange rate and the balance sheets are translated at year-end exchange rates.
Exchange differences When properties, plant or equipment are sold, the difference arising on retranslation are taken directly to shareholders equity.
between the sales proceeds and net book value is included in the income statement.
In addition, exchange differences arising from the translation of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges Residual values and useful lives of assets are reviewed annually and of such investments are also taken to shareholders equity.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
entity and translated at the closing rate.
For the purposes of assessing value in use, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash Pre-contract bid costs flows cash generating units and cash flow forecasts are made Pre-contract costs are expensed as incurred until the group is on the assumptions consistent with the most up-to-date budgets appointed preferred bidder.
Preferred bidder status provides and plans that have been formally approved by the directors.
sufficient confidence that the conclusion of the contract is These cash flows are discounted using the weighted average cost probable, the outcome can be reliably measured and is expected of capital for the group, adjusted for the particular risks of the cash to generate sufficient net cash inflows to enable recovery.
generating unit being reviewed for impairment.
Pre-contract costs incurred subsequent to appointment as preferred bidder are capitalised onto the balance sheet as Intangible assets prepayments.
The prepayment is expensed to the income statement over the period of the contract.
a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over Costs, which have been expensed, are not subsequently reinstated the fair value of the groups share of the net identifiable assets of when a contract award is achieved.
the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill net of amortisation prior to 1st January 2005 in respect of business Property, plant and equipment combinations made since 1st January 1998 is included within Land and buildings comprise mainly factories and offices.
Goodwill in respect of business combinations All property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less made on or before 31st December 1997 remains eliminated subsequent depreciation, except for land, which is shown against reserves.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
55 Goodwill is tested annually for impairment by cash-generating The group documents at the inception of the transaction the units.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items purpose of impairment testing.
Gains and losses on the disposal and its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in the hedging the entity sold except for goodwill eliminated against reserves.
transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of hedged items.
b Computer software Intellectual property rights Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis The fair value of various derivative instruments used for hedging of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific purposes are disclosed in note 17.
Movements on the hedging software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful reserve in shareholders equity are shown in note 25.
The group lives not exceeding three years.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of a Fair value hedge identifiable and unique software products controlled by the group, Changes in the fair value of the derivatives that are fully designated and that it is estimated will generate economic benefits exceeding and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the Direct costs include the costs of software development employees.
hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets The group has one fair value hedge in respect of a cross currency are amortised over their estimated useful lives not exceeding fixed to floating interest rate swap.
If the hedge no longer meets five years.
the criteria for hedge accounting, the exchange component of the derivative will continue to be taken to the income statement c Customer contracts other gains and losses along with the exchange on the related Intangible assets arising either from legal or contractual rights borrowings.
The interest component of the derivative item will be which have been purchased are required to be separately identified amortised to the income statement over the period to maturity.
from goodwill and are stated at historical cost, or in the case of intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination, b Net investment hedge at fair value.
The fair value attributable to the customer contracts Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective is determined by discounting the expected future cash flows to be portion of the hedge is recognised directly against reserves.
generated from that asset at the risk adjusted weighted average The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised cost of capital for the group.
This amount is amortised over the immediately in the income statement.
period in which the company is expected to benefit from the Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the contracts acquired, over periods ranging from two to five years.
income statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
Financial assets The group classifies its non-derivative financial assets as loans and c Cash flow hedge receivables.
The classification depends on the purpose for which The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the that are designated to qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
The groups cash flow hedges which are in respect of cross-currency interest rate swaps, interest rate swaps and Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with forward foreign exchange contracts result in recognition in fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active either the currency translation component of equity or in the market.
They are included in current assets.
These are classified hedging reserve.
Loans and receivables are classified as trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities cumulative gain or loss in equity at that time remains in equity Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date and is recognised when the forecast transaction ultimately occurs.
a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, remeasured at their fair value at each balance sheet date.
the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity will be The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on transferred to the income statement.
whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, d Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The group Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do designates certain derivatives as either i hedges of the fair value not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in of recognised assets or liabilities fair value hedge : or ii hedges the income statement.
of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge : or iii hedges of net investments in foreign operations net investment hedge.
56 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements continued e Energy contracts Current and deferred income tax The group occasionally takes out energy contracts in relation to the The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax supply of gas and electricity.
Such contracts are not recognised as laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in derivative financial instruments as they are held with the purpose the countries where the groups subsidiaries operate and generate of the receipt or delivery of a non-financial item in accordance taxable income.
with the entitys expected purchase, sale or usage requirements.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, Inventories on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated value.
Cost is determined using the first in, first out FIFO method.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises of raw rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the overheads.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling tax liability is settled.
Full provision is made for obsolete, defective and slow Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is moving stock.
probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value less provision Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is established when there is objective evidence that the group will recognised in equity.
not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the change in provision Employee benefits is recognised in the income statement.
a Pension obligations The group operates various pension schemes.
The schemes are Cash and cash equivalents funded through payments to insurance companies or a trustee Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at administered fund, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with The group has both defined benefit and defined contribution original maturities of three months or less.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on Share capital retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, Ordinary shares are classified as equity and are recorded at par years of service and compensation.
A defined contribution plan is value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Where shares a pension plan under which the group pays fixed contributions are issued above par value, the proceeds in excess of par value are into a separate entity.
The group has no legal or constructive recorded in the share premium account.
obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not Where any group company purchases the companys equity share hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable to employee service in the current and prior periods.
incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to the The net liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of companys shareholders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value any consideration received, net of any directly attributable of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised incremental costs, is included in equity attributable to the actuarial gains or losses and past service costs.
The defined benefit companys shareholders.
obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined Borrowings benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits cost.
Any difference between the amount initially recognised will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised terms of the related pension liability.
in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Commitment fees for undrawn Current and past service costs, to the extent they have vested, are committed borrowing facilities are expensed during the period recognised in operating costs in the Income Statement together to which they relate.
with interest costs on plan liabilities and the expected return on plan assets.
Borrowings are classified as non-current liabilities where the group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at Cumulative actuarial gains and losses arising from experience least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
adjustments and change in actuarial assumptions are credited or charged to the statement of recognised income and expense net of deferred tax.
57 For defined contribution plans, the group pays contributions to a Service income publicly or privately administered pension insurance or trustee Income received or receivable in respect of service income is administered plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary credited to revenue as and when services are rendered in respect basis.
The group has no further payment obligations once of linen and washroom services.
Revenue is recognised on a per the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are item basis for delivery of laundered textiles to hotels and hospitals.
recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Revenue for supply and laundering of Workwear is recognised Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that on a regular, periodic basis in accordance with the terms of a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
b Share based payment plans b Sale of goods revenue The groups management awards employees share options, from For non-contract based business, revenue represents the value time to time, both on a discretionary and non-discretionary basis of goods delivered.
which are subject to vesting conditions.
The economic cost of awarding the share options to its employees is recognised as an Leases employee benefit expense in the income statement equivalent to Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group has the fair value of the benefit awarded.
The fair value is determined substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified by reference to the Black-Scholes option pricing model, for those as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases schemes which have no market-based vesting conditions and the commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased Monte-Carlo Model for the awards under the Performance Share property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The charge is recognised in the Income Statement over the Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance vesting period of the award.
charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The corresponding lease obligations, net of finance The proceeds received are credited to share capital nominal value charges, are included in other long-term payables.
The interest and share premium when the options are exercised.
element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement c Termination benefits over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of Termination benefits are payable when an employment is interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these are depreciated over the shorter of the assets useful life and the benefits.
The group recognises termination benefits when it is lease term.
shown to be committed to either: terminating the employment Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.
possibility of withdrawal: or providing termination benefits as Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
received from the lessor are charged to the income statement d Holiday pay on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Paid holidays are regarded as an employee benefit and as such are charged to the Income Statement as the benefits are earned.
Dividend distribution An accrual is made at the balance sheet date to reflect the fair Final dividend distribution to the companys shareholders is value of holidays earned but not yet taken.
recognised as a liability in the groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the companys Provisions shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Provisions for vacant properties, restructuring costs and legal claims are recognised when the group has a present legal or Income statement presentation constructive obligation as a result of past events and it is more a Exceptional items likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to Items that are either material in size or non operating in nature settle the obligation: and the amount has been reliably estimated.
are presented as exceptional items in the income statement.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures The directors are of the opinion that the separate recording of expected to be required to settle the obligation.
exceptional items provides helpful information about the groups underlying business performance.
Examples of events, which may Revenue recognition give rise to the classification of items as exceptional include, inter Group revenue comprises the fair value for the rendering of alia, restructuring of businesses, gains and losses on disposal of services, net of value added tax and other similar sales based taxes, properties, impairment of goodwill and non-recurring income.
rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the group.
b Amortisation of customer contracts and intellectual Revenue is recognised as follows: property rights These are presented separately in the income statement as they arise from acquisitions.
