Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the second Annual General Meeting Notes: of UK Commercial Property Trust Limited will be convened at 1.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 3QL is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a on 22 May 2009 at 12 noon for the following purposes.
To poll, vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a member consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as an Ordinary of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use at the Meeting.
To approve and adopt the Annual Report and Accounts of the of proxy should be completed and sent, together with the Company for the year ended 31 December 2008. power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is 2.
To re-elect Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors to the Company until the signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
so as to reach Computershare Investor Services CI Limited, 3.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
Ordnance House, 31 Pier Road, St Helier, Jersey JE4 8PW not 4.
To re-elect Mr Dorrian as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Robertson as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Wilson as a Director of the Company.
Completing and returning a form of proxy will not prevent a member from attending in person at the Meeting and voting Special Resolutions should he or she so wish.
To increase the limit on aggregate Directors remuneration by 4.
To have the right to attend and vote at the Meeting and also amending Article 79 1 of the Articles of Association and Part 6 for the purposes of calculating how many votes a member may Section 3.10 i of the Prospectus dated February 2007 by the cast on a poll a member must first have his or her name deletion of the figure 150,000 and the substitution of the figure entered on the register of members not later than 20 May 200,000.
Changes to entries in the register after that time shall be 2.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as a Special disregarded in determining the rights of any member to attend Resolution: and vote at such Meeting.
That the Company, be authorised in accordance with The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended, the Law to make 5.
The Directors letters of appointment will be available for market acquisitions of its own ordinance shares of 25p each inspection for fifteen minutes prior to the Annual General shares either for retention as treasury shares for future resale of Meeting and during the meeting itself.
transfer or cancellation, provided that: i the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be acquired 6.
Copies of the Articles of Association of the Company will be shall be equal to 14.99 per cent.
of the Companys issued share available for inspection during normal business hours on any day capital on the date on which this resolution is passed: Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted until the close ii the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a of the Annual General Meeting at the registered office of the Share is 25p, being the nominal value per share: Company.
iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a 7.
As at 27 March 2009, the latest practicable date prior to Share is an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of the publication of this document, the Company had 838,554,858 middle market quotations for a Share taken from the London Stock ordinary shares in issue with a total of 838,554,858 voting Exchanges Daily Official List for the five business days immediately rights.
preceding the day on which the Share is purchased: iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the 8.
Any person holding 3% of the total voting rights in the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010 or, if Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as his earlier, on the expiry of 18 months from the passing of this proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party resolution, unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the v the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
By order of the Board Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited Secretary Trafalgar Court Les Banques St Peter Port Guernsey GY1 3QL Date 10 April 2009 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 35
