Shareholder Information Dividends It is the Directors intention in line with the Companys investment objective to pay an attractive level of dividend income to shareholders on a quarterly basis.
The Directors intend to set the proposed level of dividend after taking into account the long term income return of the Property Portfolio, the diversity and covenant strength of the tenants and the length of the leases of the Properties.
In accordance with typical accounting policies for investment companies, the Directors expect that they will effectively charge a proportion of the Groups expenses to capital.
Dividends will not be paid out of surpluses arising on the realisation of investments.
Dividends on the Ordinary Shares are expected to be paid in equal instalments quarterly in respect of each financial year in May, August, November and February.
All dividends will be paid as interim dividends.
Ordinary dividends are paid quarterly in May, August, November and February each year.
Shareholders who wish to have dividends paid directly into a bank account rather than by cheque to their registered address can complete a mandate form for the purpose.
Mandates may be obtained from Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited, Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 3QL on request.
Where dividends are paid directly to shareholders bank accounts, dividend tax vouchers are sent directly to shareholders registered addresses.
Share Price The Companys Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Prices are given daily in the Financial Times under Investment Companies.
Change of Address Communications with shareholders are mailed to the address held on the share register.
In the event of a change of address or other amendment this should be notified to Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited, Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 3QL under the signature of the registered holder.
Shareholder Enquiries Contact Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited, Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 3QL.
Additional information regarding the Company may also be found at its website address which is: www.
co. uk Financial Calendar 2009 10 27 February 2009 Payment of sixth interim dividend March 2009 Announcement of annual results Posting of Annual Report 22 May 2009 Annual General Meeting May 2009 Payment of first interim dividend August 2009 Payment of second interim dividend August 2009 Posting of Interim Report November 2009 Payment of third interim dividend February 2010 Payment of fourth interim dividend March 2010 Announcement of annual results Posting of Annual Report UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 36
