Portfolio valuation an explanation Our policy is to value 3is investment portfolio at fair value and achieve this by valuing How do we calculate 3is share of the enterprise value?
individual investments on an appropriate basis using a consistent methodology across the We allocate the enterprise value to financial instruments which rank above 3i, such as senior portfolio.
The following guide explains the valuation methods used.
We then generally apply a marketability discount of 10%30% in accordance with the IPEVC valuation guidelines.
We can then allocate the remaining balance between equity What is fair value?
holders dependent on individual shareholding.
Fair value is the value of an asset or liability in an arms-length transaction between two willing and knowledgeable parties.
This generally provides the best estimate of what we What level of marketability discount is applied?
would receive if we sold the investment at the date of valuation.
The Groups financial The marketability discount of 10%30% is based on the Groups influence over the statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards exit prospects and timing for the company.
A greater influence gained through a greater IFRS, many of which are based on the concept of fair value.
equity holding implies a smaller discount.
In a smaller number of cases a greater discount may be applied if there are particular factors affecting the ability to sell.
The Group complies with all material aspects of the International Private Equity and What happens if the enterprise value is less than the loan amount?
Venture Capital IPEVC valuation guidelines.
The IPEVC valuation guidelines specify the This implies that there is a shortfall in the value of the loan.
A decision based on valuation methodology which is most appropriate to individual investments at a particular the performance of the investment is then taken as to whether to recognise this shortfall.
Is an investment valued on the same basis throughout the period 3i is invested?
We value loans using the amortised cost method, which is in accordance with IFRS.
3i carries out a detailed valuation of its investment portfolio twice yearly.
At each valuation point The amortised cost represents the amount at which the loan is measured at initial the investment is valued on the most appropriate basis.
For example, if a portfolio company lists recognition, less principal repayments taking into account any premium or discount on its shares on a stock exchange it would be valued on a quoted basis at the next valuation.
Effectively, this is cost less any provisions required.
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest rate based on all the loans cash flows.
How are quoted investments valued?
Quoted investments are valued at closing bid price at the date of valuation.
No discounts How are earnings defined?
are applied for illiquidity of the stock or dealing restrictions, such as lock-up periods, provided The objective is to use maintainable earnings of the company in which 3i is invested.
investments are traded on an active stock market.
These are the normal earnings of the company, and are calculated by removing any ad hoc amounts included in the current year figures, such as profits on disposal of fixed assets or How are unquoted investments valued?
one-off expenses that are not expected to occur on a regular basis.
A common measure of In line with the IPEVC valuation guidelines a number of different valuation methods are used earnings used for this calculation is earnings before interest and tax EBIT.
Other measures for unquoted investments: used are earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA, or profit after tax.
These figures are usually taken from the latest audited accounts, which cover a period of Cost less provisions: at least six months since the date of investment.
A review of more recent management Earnings: accounts is conducted to ensure that the audited accounts remain a valid basis.
Net assets: Which multiple is appropriate to use?
Price of recent investment: or Multiples need to be consistent with the measure of earnings chosen.
Therefore EBIT multiples must be used with EBIT, EBITDA multiples with EBITDA and Price Earnings Imminent sale or IPO.
PE multiples used with profit after tax.
The multiple used can be calculated using recent transaction information, external valuations or quoted sector multiples.
What proportion of the portfolio is valued on each valuation basis?
The portfolio for the year ended 31 March 2008 is valued on the following basis: What happens if an investment is reporting a loss?
One of the other valuation methodologies can be used.
For example the valuation can be Cost less provisions 33% prepared on a net asset basis.
Earnings 28% Quoted equity investments at bid-price 15% What happens if the investment is failing?
If a company is failing or we consider that there is a 50% chance or more that it is likely Price of recent investment 5% to fail within the next 12 months, the equity element is valued at nil, and any loan element Imminent sale or IPO 3% is valued at the lower of cost or net recoverable amount.
Net assets 1% When is the price of recent investment basis used?
Other 15% Venture capital investments often have a number of financing rounds during the life of the investment.
The last round of financing can be used as a reference point to calculate fair value.
To increase the value of an investment, the round of financing must have external parties investing.
Note: Cost includes unquoted equity investments and loans and receivables.
What is the other basis of valuation?
Under what circumstances would an investment be valued on a cost basis?
Other includes DCF calculations, which estimate the present value of an investments future For investments that are less than 12 months old, the price that 3i paid, ie cost, cash flows.
This methodology is most appropriate where cash flows over the life of an is considered the most appropriate valuation method.
However the performance of investment are predictable.
This basis is commonly used for infrastructure investments, the investment is also reviewed to see if any impairment should be made if the company which are usually held over a long period of time and generate regular and predictable cash is underperforming.
When a full set of accounts covering a period of at least six months flows.
Other could also include investments in funds valued based on 3is share of net following the investment are received then those figures are used to prepare the valuation assets or investments in specific sectors such as insurance where industry specific on an alternative basis to cost.
Six of the investments detailed on pages 108 and 109, totalling 451 million and representing 7.5% of the portfolio value, were included in this category.
What does valuing an investment on an earnings basis actually mean?
The earnings basis is a very common basis of valuing unquoted companies when they What happens if an investment is in the process of being sold?
Essentially a multiple is applied to the earnings of the company, When an investment is in an advanced sales process, we will use the imminent sale basis of to calculate an enterprise value.
This enterprise value is the total value of the investment, valuation, which uses the expected proceeds from the sale, applying a 10% marketability including debt, any preferred financial instruments and equity.
Before calculating the value discount.
We will consider the potential effect of completion conditions before moving an of 3is shareholding in the company, the debt and any preferred instruments need to be asset to this basis.
deducted from the enterprise value.
The total value of 3is investment is then the value of its equity plus any debt or preferred financial instruments that are due to 3i.
106 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2008 Portfolio and additional Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements financial information Information for shareholders The valuation lifecycle The calculation shows the sector multiple of 10x being applied to the EBITDA of The following illustration walks through the valuation of an asset from investment Investment A of 10 million to derive the enterprise value.
After reducing the enterprise to realisation.
value by 20 million for higher ranking loans a 25% marketability discount is applied.
This reflects the fact that 3i has reduced influence due to its minority position.
The value Equity attributable to 3i and other shareholders is 60 million.
3is loan ranks above equity holders Loan and therefore this reduces the amount attributable to equity holders to 40 million.
We can now apply the 3i equity holding percentage of 25% to 40 million to achieve the value of Value m 50 10 million for 3is equity.
The total value to 3i is therefore 20 million for the loan and 10 million for equity, 30 million in total.
45 40 Year 3 Earnings basis Following year 2 the valuation is updated for the performance of Investment A.
Earnings 35 have increased to 12 million and the sector multiple has increased to 11x and there is no reason to change the valuation basis, therefore an earnings basis continues to be used.
30 As other factors have remained the same as for year 2, the valuation of 3is equity 25 investment has increased to 16 million and the loan value remains at 20 million.
20 Year 4 Imminent sale basis 15 We have been approached by an external buyer to purchase our equity and loan investment 10 in Investment A for 50 million, and discussions are now in their final stages.
This is now valued on an imminent sale basis.
The cash has not been received at the time of valuation 5 and therefore a 10% discount has been applied.
The valuation is now calculated as the sum of the loan value 20 million and of the equity element 25 million which together total 0 45 million.
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Cost Earnings Earnings Imminent Year 5 Realisation basis basis basis sale basis The investment is sold and is no longer held in the portfolio at the year end.
If proceeds are 3i invested 20 million in loans and 5 million in equity for a 25% equity holding in different to the imminent sale value there would be a realisation profit or loss.
Investment A is an oil and gas production company, based in Europe.
The following description explains the valuation bases used throughout the ownership of Investment A.
Year 1 Cost basis The investment is less than a year old and there are no indications of impairment, therefore the valuation remains at cost.
Year 2 Earnings basis The audited accounts for Investment A are now available and the valuation can be prepared on an earnings basis, using a sector multiple as the most accurate multiple available for Investment A.
The audited EBITDA of Investment A are 10 million and the sector EBITDA multiple for the quoted European oil and gas production sector is 10x.
There is also 20 million of external debt within Investment A that ranks above 3is investment and needs to be included in the following valuation calculation: m Earnings EBITDA 10 Multiple Oil and Gas sector EBITDA multiple x10 Enterprise value earnings x multiple 100 Less: Higher ranking loans external debt 20 Net enterprise value 80 Less: Marketability discount 25% 20 60 Less: 3i Loan 20 Amount attributable to equity holders 40 3i equity holding at 25% 10 Total value for 3i loan and equity 30 Report and accounts 2008 3i Group plc 107
