Private equity and venture capital a lexicon Like any industry, the Private Equity industry has its own language.
This Lexicon provides a description of some of the key terms.
Definitions Growth capital or development capital Venture capital These are typically investments Private equity, as the term suggests, This involves the provision of capital to in early and late stage technology and involves investment of equity capital in private accelerate the growth of established businesses healthcare companies.
More recently it has become as and generally involves the PE investor taking the VC typically takes a minority equity much associated with an investment style a minority equity position.
It is a type of stake in the business as part of a syndicate of as it has with its more literal description.
investment suited to a diverse range of growth VCs.
Early-stage investments typically fund opportunities, including acquisitions, increasing research or development expenditure and costs 3is private equity activities cover: production capacity, market or product associated with building an organisation for a Buyouts This involves the purchase of an development, turnaround opportunities, company which is not yet generating revenues.
existing independent business or a subsidiary or shareholder succession and change of ownership Late-stage investments tend to fund the division of a corporate group from its current situations.
For 3i from 1 April 2008 this scaling up of a business, once the model is owners.
This category of investment includes category of investing also includes investments proven, for companies which are either yet to management buyouts, management buy-ins, in later stage technology and healthcare make a profit or in the early stages of and institutional buyouts.
Here, the equity in the businesses.
Both early and late-stage investing post-buyout business is usually shared between usually involves a number of funding rounds.
Examples of growth capital investments can be the management team and the Private Equity found on pages 18 and 19.
From 1 April 2008, 3i has stopped investing in investor PE investor, with the PE investor the early-stage segment of the market and the usually holding a majority stake.
Infrastructure 3i also invests in infrastructure Venture Capital portfolio has been managed by assets.
These are investments in asset-intensive The financing for the buyout would generally a separate Venture Portfolio team.
Later-stage businesses which provide essential services such comprise around 50% of senior and mezzanine investments will continue to be made through as transport, utilities and social infrastructure debt usually provided by banks and mezzanine the Growth Capital business line.
These include a providers, with substantially all of the balance range of asset maturities, from mature, Examples of venture capital investments can of the purchase price coming from the PE typically high-yielding assets to early-stage be found on pages 26 and 27. investor and a relatively small amount coming development projects.
A large part of the PE investors finance is generally provided Quoted Private Equity QPE This involves in the form of redeemable preference shares or the purchase of influential stakes in smaller shareholder loans.
This is to reflect the mismatch quoted companies which have low liquidity between the equity finance provided by the PE in their shares, little analyst coverage and investor and that of the management team, as potential to grow significantly.
The concept is well as to provide a significant equity incentive that through taking a private equity value for management.
creation approach to these companies and working with management their prospects Examples of buyouts investments can be found can be significantly improved.
116 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2008 Portfolio and additional Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements financial information Information for shareholders Investment objective Structuring and making the investment This Types of investment vehicle Like any other investor, the objective of the PE phase involves financial structuring, negotiation The predominant vehicle in the industry is the investor is to earn attractive returns on its and project management skills on the part of the independent, private, fixed-life, closed-end investment, commensurate with the risk being PE investor.
Relationships with banks, mezzanine fund, usually organised as a Limited taken.
The returns come either in the form of finance providers, intermediaries and others are Partnership.
These funds typically have a fixed income interest, dividends or fees or capital also important.
The contrast with investment in quoted of an initial commitment of capital by Implementing the value creation plan This phase companies is that the PE investor will usually investors in the fund which is then drawn involves actually making it happen, creating prefer to crystallise its capital gain through a down as the investment manager finds value between making the investment and exit.
trade sale of the underlying business ie a sale investment opportunities.
Capital is returned to If the strategy involves corporate acquisitions or to a corporate purchaser, a sale to a financial the investors via earnings distributions and mergers, restructuring the business, achieving purchaser or a flotation on the public markets.
Some investment growth in turnover or operating profits, the This preference tends to make private equity vehicles are organised as captive or semiPE investor would need to have the required investment medium to long term in nature, since captive funds.
A captive fund invests only for capability to ensure these are achieved.
time is required to implement the value growth the interest of its parent organisation which The ability to assess and strengthen the strategy for the business and there will also be may be, for example, a bank or investment management team as the life cycle proceeds is a wish to optimise the timing of the exit.
This might involve having access captive fund mixes capital from both outside to a pool of management talent in order to Investment lifecycle investors and the parent organisation.
Both match a particular need to a particular The lifecycle for an investment can be broken captive and semi-captive funds tend to be management skill-set.
down into five distinct phases, with each evergreen in nature income from requiring significant resource and capability on Exit This phase generally involves a trade sale, a investments and proceeds received on the the part of the VC or PE investor: listing on a stock exchange or a sale to another realisation of investments are substantially private equity firm a secondary.
Exit prospects retained for further investment rather than Origination The ability to access and create and strategy should generally be reviewed on an being returned to investors.
There are also a investment opportunities.
This is a critical ongoing basis during the investments life and limited number of private equity investment component of a PE investors business model.
the sale or flotation itself requires resource and companies, such as 3i, whose shares are listed Developing and validating the investment case capability from the PE investor, since both are on a stock exchange.
These tend to be In this phase the PE investor draws upon its lengthy and complex processes.
evergreen in nature and offer investors a more knowledge, experience, commercial judgment liquid exposure to private equity.
and other capabilities to develop and validate their investment case.
This might involve building a potential board and management team and working with them to develop the strategy for value growth and exit: as well as conducting due diligence on all significant assumptions and inputs to the investment case.
Report and accounts 2008 3i Group plc 117
