Returns and IRRs an explanation Our aim is to achieve consistent market-beating returns measured by using cash-to-cash vintage year IRRs.
How does 3is total return equate to What is an IRR measure?
Why does 3i track the performance The Internal Rate of Return IRR is the interim the IRR measures?
return earned by 3i through investing in an asset Total return is calculated as the gross portfolio Looking at the performance of a vintage enables from the date of initial investment up until the return plus other fee income, less costs and net 3i to assess the returns on pools of assets particular point in time at which it is calculated.
Total return can be expressed invested during a vintage year.
It gives a The calculation uses monthly cash flows as a quantum or as a percentage of opening measure of the performance of each years generated from the asset to work out the shareholders funds.
annualised effective compound rate of return.
Gross portfolio return is made up of the income It also allows an assessment of the return For assets that have yet to be sold, and and value movement both realised and generated from assets over the length of time therefore have not generated a final cash inflow unrealised generated from our portfolio.
they are held, rather than just looking at the from sale proceeds, the asset value at the date performance between the beginning and end of calculation of the IRR is used to calculate the Costs include expenses and net carried interest of a financial year, which is shown in the annual return.
An IRR can apply to a single asset or a payable.
The annual total return pool of assets eg all new investments made in The elements that make up the gross portfolio analysis has limitations as a measure of longerfinancial year 2008 can be pooled to calculate return are the same constituents used in an term performance, as it is only a representation an IRR for vintage year 2008.
of how the assets have performed in one An IRR calculated using the current value of the financial year and is heavily influenced by the Gross portfolio return stated as a percentage of asset as the terminal cash flow is called a Fund valuation of the asset at the beginning and end opening portfolio value will equate to an IRR IRR.
A cash-to-cash IRR does not include any of the year.
It does not show the evolution of measure over time.
So, if 3i achieves 20% gross terminal value for unsold assets and is a pure, how a vintage year is performing over time.
portfolio returns each year, the long-term IRR more simple measure of cash invested compared will also move to 20%.
To achieve this longer-term measure of to cash returned as it does not include any performance over time, the IRR is the standard judgmental asset valuation for the unsold assets.
measure used across the private equity industry.
What is total shareholder return?
In the business line IRR tables included in the Total shareholder return is the change in Business review, total investment represents all share price over a period, plus dividends What IRR measures does 3i use to first and further investment in a vintage and re-invested.
assess the performance of a vintage?
investment in externally managed funds, while A cash-to-cash IRR cannot be meaningfully used return flow consists of capital proceeds and to measure the performance of a vintage until income.
Value remaining represents the value the majority of assets in that vintage are still held within the vintages portfolio based on realised.
Therefore, 3i monitors the progress of our latest valuation.
each vintage and the evolution of the IRR using a combination of the Fund IRRs and the extent to What is a vintage and a vintage year?
which a vintage is realised, to assess the interim A vintage is a collection of assets in which 3i performance.
Case A, depicted in chart 1, is an makes its first investment during a defined example to show the interim cash-to-cash IRR period of time.
The most common time period of an asset and clearly indicates why, during the measured in the private equity industry is a year.
holding period of an asset, the Fund IRR gives a A vintage year at 3i includes all new investments more appropriate measure of performance.
made within our financial year, ie vintage year 2008 covers new investments made from 1 April 2007 to 31 March 2008.
118 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2008 Portfolio and additional Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements financial information Information for shareholders Volatility, the portfolio effect and Chart 1: IRR evolution the holding period 3i equity value uplift There will always be a range of IRRs achieved 3i equity cost on each of the individual assets in each vintage year.
However, when assets are pooled together, 3i shareholder loan the portfolio effect will reduce this overall volatility in each vintage year.
For example, 50 the range of volatility expected in any one 35 vintage year is -10% for Buyouts and, 30 -7% for Growth Capital.
Across the cycle, the volatility is expected to average out at -5% for Buyouts and, -3% 25 25 25 25 for Growth Capital.
75 75 75 75 A 3i vintage year is made up of many assets.
All will have their own individual cash flows, holding periods and will be revalued at different times.
After three years the maturity of a vintage tends to have developed enough for the Fund IRR to give a good indication of the final outcome.
By seven years most vintage years will be largely realised.
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Tracking our progress Case A To monitor a vintage year 3i uses a combination Investment 100 of Fund IRRs and money multiples.
The Fund IRR Yield 6.5 6.5 6.5 Value at year end 130 135 gives a measure of performance and the money Sale proceeds 150 multiple shows how much cash has been Fund IRR 0% 36% 22% 20% returned compared to cost eg Case A 1.7x Cash-to-cash IRR 100% 94% 71% 20% so that we can assess the extent to which that performance is locked-in.
We have published the Fund IRRs for our long-established business lines within the Business review.
Report and accounts 2008 3i Group plc 119
