Carried interest an explanation Private equity firms ensure alignment between the interests of management teams and investors through a variety of mechanisms.
A key financial mechanism is carried interest or carry and this is explained below.
When is carried interest paid and how What other return does the fund Carried interest refers to the profits generated is it calculated?
in a successful private equity fund that are Carried interest is usually based on the The fund will pay a priority profit share often received by the carried interest holders, and performance of the fund as a whole, but in some called the management fee to cover the which typically amount to 20% of the net profit funds is paid on an  costs of the fund manager.
This is typically in the fund.
Usually investors receive their initial capital 1% to 2% of the investors commitments to back plus a hurdle to ensure a minimum level of the fund annually.
Who is the carried interest holder?
return before any carried interest is paid.
This is often the senior management team of Why does 3i have both carried interest Typically, this hurdle is based on the Internal Rate the fund manager, but varies between private receivable and carried interest payable?
of Return IRR of the fund since its inception equity firms.
3is carried interest receivable is due from the for more information on IRRs see page 118. third-party funds that 3i manages.
3i has raised An IRR-based hurdle is the most appropriate Where does the term carried interest a succession of buyout funds, the most recent mechanism in the private equity industry due come from?
being Eurofund V, a a5 billion mid-market fund, to the focus on cash-to-cash returns.
The investor who receives the carried interest is and this year a $1.2 billion infrastructure fund to said to be carried by the other investors since Once the hurdle has been met, most funds invest in the Indian market.
they are willing to allocate up to 20% of their allocate cash flows above the hurdle 3is carried interest payable is due to investment profits to the carried interest holder.
disproportionately for a short period, known as executives employed by 3i.
Assets in a vintage the catch up phase, until the carried interest are grouped together in pools typically covering How does carried interest ensure holder has received the right proportion of the two years of investment, which are specific to alignment of the parties in a private overall profits in the fund.
The executives in equity transaction?
that team purchase the rights to the carried The main parties in a private equity transaction Why are investors in a private equity fund interest and, if the pool is profitable, they will are the management team of the underlying willing to forego as much as 20% of profit receive an allocation of investment profits.
company in which the fund is investing, the in carried interest?
3is internal carry schemes are structured in the investors in the fund and those who manage Generally investors value the alignment that same way as external funds, with similar terms the fund.
Approximately 94% of 3is Management teams of companies backed Carried interest functions in a similar way to a portfolio assets, measured by value at 31 March with private equity are incentivised by the performance fee.
It is directly linked to the 2008, are within carried interest schemes.
potential capital gain on their investment in success of the investment fund and has the Both carried interest receivable and payable the company.
Investors in private equity funds benefit to the investors of being measured on are accrued in line with underlying realised and benefit from the growth in value of these the cash returned to them rather than the value unrealised profits in the fund but cash payments underlying companies.
are not made until the cash is returned to Managers of the fund holding the carried In return for paying carried interest, fund investors, as noted above.
interest benefit if the overall performance of investors demand active management of their the fund is successful.
Specifically, the fund manager will: invest fund investors capital in high quality companies: develop and implement a value-creation strategy for each company in the portfolio: participate in the strategic and operational policy-making through board representation: earn an appropriate yield on the investment: and provide a profitable exit through a trade sale, IPO or refinancing.
120 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2008 Portfolio and additional Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements financial information Information for shareholders As the level of carried interest receivable is Worked example related to the returns in 3is co-investment Company A Carried interest funds, while the level of carried interest payable is related to the returns from 3is Company B Management fee own investments, carried interest receivable Company C Cash returned to investors and payable are only indirectly related in Company D 3is accounts.
Company E However in 3is Buyout business line, there is a correlation between carried interest receivable 200m 200m and payable because investments in the same 18m business are held both by the managed fund 10m and held on 3is own balance sheet.
Why does 3i have co-investment arrangements alongside its carried interest schemes?
100m In line with market practice, 3i requires those investment executives who acquire 172m carried interest rights also to invest alongside 3i.
The terms of these co-investment arrangements are changed from time to time but typically involve investment executives personally investing up to 2% of the total 3i and funds commitment to each new investment.
Gains or losses from the co-investments accrue Assume a Five companies Assume 200 million How might the to the investment executives and provide 100 million in portfolio cash received by 200 million private equity perform investors by the end be split?
further alignment with 3i and the fund investors.
fund invests in differently of the fund, ie when Assume carried interest of five companies companies are sold 20% of 90 million profits in the fund 100 million How does 3i account for carried interest?
10 million fees 3i accounts for carried interest on an accruals Assume average management fee basis.
As realisations are made and valuations are of 1 million pa during the life of the fund adjusted, 3i reviews the impact on each carry scheme in place and amends its carried interest accruals accordingly.
3is accounting policy means that movements in gross portfolio return are fully reflected in the calculation of carried interest payable and receivable, ultimately reducing year-on-year volatility to 3is total return.
Report and accounts 2008 3i Group plc 121 3i and Transparency For over 60 years, 3is objective has been to take an open and straightforward approach to doing business and describing what we do to those who have an interest.
Our track record The Walker review Long before becoming a public company in The review by Sir David Walker in 2007, How did 3i engage and input to 1994, 3i produced an annual report which which produced Guidelines for Disclosure and the Walker process?
went beyond what was required from a legal Transparency in Private Equity in November 3i engaged with the Walker process in a very perspective.
We do this because we think it is 2007, was actively supported by 3i.
3i Groups active way through the BVCA Big Buy Out good for our business, especially as we have Chairman Baroness Hogg was a member of the committee, through its own submission to grown 3i internationally and in markets where Review Group and Philip Yea, 3is Chief Executive the Working Group and through the input of the Private Equity model is less familiar.
Once 3i and Patrick Dunne, 3is Communications Director Baroness Hogg and other senior executives became listed on the London Stock Exchange in were both members of the committee within at 3i.
3i also gave its support for the July 1994, and shortly afterwards became a the British Private Equity and Venture Capital recommendations when they were published FTSE 100 company, its peer group consisted of Association BVCA which proposed the review.
in November 2007. other members of the FTSE 100 as well as PE What was the Walker review?
What were Sir David Walkers firms.
3i is regularly ranked in surveys against In response to the growing debate about the recommendations?
At the UK 2007 Investor Relations role of Private Equity in the UK, the BVCA Sir David Walkers recommendations with Society Best Practice awards in April 2007, suggested a review be conducted by respect to reporting for Private Equity firms and our 2006 Annual report was one of four short Sir David Walker, the highly-respected City their relevant portfolio companies were on a listed for the Best Annual report: Most effective figure, to examine ways in which levels of comply or explain basis.
He also had a number communication FTSE 100 award.
3is Corporate disclosure in companies backed by the UK of recommendations for the industry as a whole.
responsibility report for 2006 was awarded Private Equity industry could be improved.
For Private Equity firms: Sir David, Senior Advisor at Morgan Stanley The guidelines apply exclusively to UK Private As the industrys profile increased, as International former Chairman of Morgan Equity firms authorised by the FSA, that are PE became mainstream as an asset class for Stanley International, former Executive Director managing or advising funds that either own or investors and as PE firms have bought larger Bank of England, and former Chairman of the control one or more UK companies.
businesses and businesses with a higher profile, Securities and Investments Board chaired an the demand for greater transparency and public The guidelines say that such Private Equity firms independent industry working group which disclosure also increased.
should produce an annual review, accessible via was tasked with drawing up a voluntary code, a website, which: In 2007, there was a considerable amount of addressing the levels of disclosure in the industry press coverage in many countries about the communicates how the Private Equity and how it should communicate with a wide role of Private Equity and in the UK there was practice fits into the firm and confirm that range of stakeholders.
a formal Treasury Select Committee Review.
arrangements are in place to deal with The working group recognised the very different 3i played an active role in this debate and conflicts of interest: types of investment and issues relating to different the Groups Chief Executive, Philip Yea, gave provides some commentary on history, segments of the industry from small start-up evidence at the committee with the heads investment approach and investment holding financing to large buyouts.
It also took account of of other leading Private Equity firms.
During periods: the size of the portfolio companies concerned.
this review, 3is 2007 Annual report was It received support from across the industry.
commits to conform to the guidelines on a commended by the Chairman of the Treasury comply or explain basis: Select Committee, John McFall.
The working group consulted widely and invited representations from within the private equity provides details on the leadership of the UK 3i has also been very active in ensuring that industry, with interested parties and among firm and describes the UK firms meeting the there is comprehensive and timely information other financial institutions, pension funds and the portfolio criteria below: and available online.
According to IR WebReports investment community as well as more broadly 2007 survey of 535 large-cap international provides a categorisation of the limited portfolio companies, trade unions and employer companies, 3is investor relations website - partners in its funds and follows established representatives.
com - ranks fifth globally and guidelines in reporting to their limited partners.
second in the global Financials sector.
122 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2008 Portfolio and additional Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements financial information Information for shareholders For Private Equity backed portfolio companies: So how does 3i measure up against the Portfolio companies: The guidelines apply to portfolio companies Walker guidelines?
3i has two portfolio companies which fit which are: 3i is fully compliant with the Walker guidelines.
the Walker criteria for enhanced disclosure.
These are Anglian Water Group Limited, an acquired by one or more private equity firms As a Private Equity firm: infrastructure investment, and Enterprise in a public-to-private transaction, where the 3is annual and half-yearly reports are fully Group Holdings Limited, a mid-market Buyouts market capitalisation together with the compliant: investment.
Both of these companies were premium for acquisition of control was in our 3i.
com websites provide formerly public companies listed on the London excess of 300 million: and substantially more information than is required Stock Exchange.
acquired by one or more private equity firms in by the Walker guidelines: Anglian Water Groups year end is 31 March a secondary or other non-market transaction, we have high levels of employee engagement.
and its Annual report and accounts for the where the enterprise value at the time of the 92% of our staff took part in the latest staff year to 31 March 2008 are expected to be transaction was in excess of 500 million.
survey and 3i exceeded 19 of the 20 Ipsos published in June 2008 and expected to be And, in each case, where more than 50% of Mori Top Ten norms.
Further information fully Walker compliant.
The companys website the revenues were generated in the UK and UK regarding employee engagement is provided in www.
com already contains a high level employees totalled in excess of 1,000 full-time our Corporate responsibility report on page of disclosure.
44: Enterprises year end is 31 December and Portfolio companies meeting these criteria regular surveys of shareholders evidence its Annual report and accounts for the year should publish annual reports and accounts on strong satisfaction with the level and nature of to 31 December 2007 and website their websites within six months of the year communications: www.
uk are fully Walker end and include: compliant.
3i has a well-developed approach to the identity of the private equity fund or funds communicating with the LP investors in the This 3i Annual report also contains 15 detailed that own the company, the senior managers funds which it manages or advises with a case studies comprising the two largest or advisers who have oversight of the fund or regular flow of information, as well as events investments and the two largest realisations funds and detail on the composition of its board: and meetings.
Investors are also encouraged by value together with the next largest to provide feedback: investments in the portfolio for our Buyouts, a business review that substantially conforms Growth Capital and Venture Capital business to section 417 of the Companies Act 2006: 3is website 3i.
com contains a large number of lines.
Details of forty other large investments and endorsements from the management teams are also included in this report.
of portfolio companies who work with 3i: a financial review to cover risk management objectives and policies, including those relating regular surveys of journalists views on the to leverage.
industry and on the Company undertaken by Ipsos Mori show high levels of trust in 3i and Portfolio companies should also: satisfaction with press communications: publish a summary mid-year update no later 3i has a well-developed compliance function than three months after mid-year: and which ensures that arrangements are in place provide data to the BVCA in support of its to deal with conflicts of interest.
As can be work in aggregating data for the industry as seen from our Risk management report on a whole.
page 38, there is a formal Conflicts Committee which reports to our Operational For the industry as a whole: Risk Committee: and increase industry-wide reporting and intelligence and, in particular, to undertake rigorous 3i provides extensive information on the evidence-based analysis of the economic leadership of the UK firm and the Group impact of Private Equity activity: and as a whole.
establish a guidelines review and monitoring capability.
Report and accounts 2008 3i Group plc 123
