3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 51 Investment policy The Company aims to build a diversified portfolio of equity For most investments, the Company seeks to obtain representation investments in entities owning infrastructure businesses and assets.
on the board of directors of the investee company or equivalent The Company seeks investment opportunities globally, but with a governing body and in cases where it acquires a majority equity focus on Europe, North America and Asia.
interest in a business, that interest may also be a controlling interest.
The Companys equity investments will often comprise share capital No investment made by the Company will represent more than and related shareholder loans or other financial instruments that 20% of the Companys gross assets, including cash holdings, at the are not shares but that, in combination with shares, are similar in time of the making of the investment.
It is expected that most substance.
The Company may also invest in junior or mezzanine individual investments will exceed 50 million.
In some cases, the debt in infrastructure businesses or assets.
total amount required for an individual transaction may exceed the maximum amount that the Company is permitted to commit to a Most of the Companys investments are in unquoted companies.
In such circumstances, the Company may consider However, the Company may also invest in entities owning entering into co-investment arrangements with 3i Group or other infrastructure businesses and assets whose shares or other investors who may also be significant shareholders, pursuant to instruments are listed on any stock exchange, irrespective of whether which 3i Group or such other investors may co-invest on the same they cease to be listed after completion of the investment, if the financial and economic terms as the Company.
The suitability of any Directors judge that such an investment is consistent with the such co-investment arrangements will be assessed on a transactionCompanys investment objectives.
The Company will, in any case, by-transaction basis and would be subject to both Board and, where invest no more than 15% of its total gross assets in other investment applicable, 3i Group approval.
Depending on the size of the relevant companies or investment trusts which are listed on the Official List.
investment and the identity of the relevant co-investor, such a The Company may also consider investing in other fund structures co-investment arrangement may be subject to the related party in the event that it considers, on receipt of advice from the transaction provisions contained in the Listing Rules and may Investment Adviser, that that is the most appropriate and effective therefore require Shareholder consent.
means of investing, which may be advised or managed either by the The Companys Articles require its outstanding borrowings, including Investment Adviser or a third party.
If the Company invests in another any financial guarantees to support subsequent obligations, to be fund advised or managed by 3i Group, the relevant proportion of limited to 50% of the gross assets of the Group valuing investments any advisory or management fees payable by the investee fund to on the basis included in the Groups accounts.
3i Group will be deducted from the annual advisory fee payable under the Investment Advisory Agreement and the relevant proportion of In accordance with Listing Rules requirements, the Company will any performance fee will be deducted from the annual performance only make a material change to its investment policy with the fee, if payable, under the Investment Advisory Agreement.
For the approval of shareholders.
avoidance of doubt, there will be no similar set-off arrangement where any such fund is advised or managed by a third party.
