52 3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 Portfolio valuation methodology A description of the methodology used to value the portfolio of DCF 3i Infrastructure and its subsidiaries the Group is set out below DCF is the primary basis for valuation.
In using the DCF basis, in order to provide more detailed information than is included within fair value is estimated by deriving the present value of the investment the accounting policies and the Investment Advisers report for the using reasonable assumptions and estimation of expected future valuation of the portfolio.
The methodology complies in all material cash flows and the terminal value and date, and the appropriate aspects with the International Private Equity and Venture Capital risk-adjusted discount rate that quantifies the risk inherent to the valuation guidelines which are endorsed by the British Private investment.
The discount rate will be estimated for each investment Equity and Venture Capital Association and the European Venture derived from the market risk-free rate, a risk-adjusted premium and Capital Association.
information specific to the investment or market sector.
LP share of fund net assets Basis of valuation Where the Group has made investments into other infrastructure Investments are reported at the Directors estimate of fair value at funds, the value of the investment will be derived from the Groups the reporting date.
Fair value represents the amount for which an share of net assets of the fund based on the most recent reliable asset could be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing parties financial information available from the fund.
Where the underlying in an arms length transaction.
investments within a fund are valued on a DCF basis, the discount rate applied may be adjusted by the Company to reflect its General assessment of the most appropriate discount rate for the nature In estimating fair value, the Directors seek to use a methodology that of assets held in the fund.
is appropriate in light of the nature, facts and circumstances of the investment and its materiality in the context of the overall portfolio.
Sales basis The methodology that is the most appropriate may consequently The expected sales proceeds methodology will be used in cases include adjustments based on informed and experience-based where offers have been received as part of an investment sales judgments, and will also consider the nature of the industry and process.
This may either support the value derived from another market practice.
Methodologies are applied consistently from period methodology or may be used as the valuation.
A marketability to period except where a change would result in a better estimation discount is applied to the expected sale proceeds to derive the of fair value.
Given the uncertainties inherent in estimating fair value, valuation where appropriate.
a degree of caution is applied in exercising judgments and making Cost less fair value adjustment necessary estimates.
Any investment in a company that has failed or, in the view of the Board, is expected to fail within the next 12 months, has the equity Quoted investments shares valued at nil and the fixed income shares and loan instruments Quoted equity investments are valued at closing bid price at the valued at the lower of cost and net recoverable amount.
In accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, no discount is applied for liquidity of the stock or any dealing restrictions.
Quoted debt investments will be valued using quoted prices provided by third-party broker information where reliable or will be held at cost less fair value adjustments.
Unquoted investments Unquoted investments are valued using one of the following methodologies: Discounted Cash Flow DCF Limited Partnership share of fund net assets Sales basis: Expected Sales Proceeds Cost less any fair value adjustments required 3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 53 Information for shareholders Financial calendar About 3i Infrastructure Limited Ex-dividend date 18 June 2008 3i Infrastructure Limited 3i Infrastructure or the Company is a Jersey-incorporated, closed-ended Record date 20 June 2008 investment company that invests in infrastructure businesses and assets and is regulated by the Jersey Financial Annual General Meeting 28 July 2008 Services Commission.
Final dividend expected to be paid 31 July 2008 Interim results November 2008 3i Infrastructure listed on the London Stock Exchange on 13 March 2007, raising 703 million in its initial public offering IPO from a diverse range of international institutions and retail investors.
The Company is a constituent of the FTSE 250 index.
Registrars 3i Investments plc 3i Investments, a wholly-owned subsidiary of 3i Group plc 3i Group acts as Investment AdFor shareholder services, including changes of address, the registrar details are as follows: viser to the Company.
The Company has a non-executive board and no employees.
Capita Registrars Jersey Limited 12 Castle Street, St. Helier Jersey JE2 3RT Channel Islands Financial highlights e-mail: registrars@capita.
je for the period to as at 31 March 2008 Telephone: 44 0 1534 632310 or the Shareholder helpline: 44 0 871 664 0300 Investment Consolidated 1 basis IFRS basis Total return 91m 89m 2 Total return on opening shareholders equity 13.1% 12.9% Diluted net asset value per share 108.6p 108.5p Website Total dividend per share of which final proposed dividend is 3.0p 5.0p 5.0p For full up-to-date investor relations information including Diluted net asset value per share after deducting final dividend 105.6p 105.5p the latest share price, recent reports, results presentations and financial news, please visit our investor relations New investment and commitments 613m 742m website www.
as a percentage of net IPO proceeds 88% n a If you would prefer to receive shareholder communications electronically in future, including your annual and interim reports Total portfolio value 490m 765m and notices of meetings, please go to 1 The Investment basis accounts for majority investments and subsidiaries formed specifically for investment purposes in the same way as minority investments and does not consolidate these entities as is required www.
com e-comms for details of how to register.
under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
2 Opening shareholders equity is defined, specifically for this period, as total funds raised at IPO less formation costs.
For the Consolidated IFRS basis, the total return in this measure is the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent and does not include minority interests.
Frequently used Registrars forms may be found on our website at www.
com e-comms 3i Infrastructure Limited The Directors report for 3i Infrastructure Limited for the period to 31 March 2008 has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon apRegistered office: plicable English and Jersey law and the liabilities of the Company in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such 22 Grenville Street, St. Helier law.
Jersey JE4 8PX This report may contain certain statements about the future outlook for 3i Infrastructure Limited.
Although we believe our expectations are based on reasonable Channel Islands assumptions, any statements about the future outlook may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different.
Tel: 44 0 1534 609000 Fax: 44 0 1534 609333 Contents Annual report online Registered in Jersey No.
95682 01 Chairmans statement 33 Auditors report To receive shareholder communications electronically in 02 Company objectives at IPO 34 Consolidated income statement future, including your annual and half-yearly reports and notices 03 Investment Advisers review 35 Statements of changes in equity of meetings, please go to www.
com e-comms 11 Profile of senior members of the 36 Balance sheet for details of how to register.
investment advisory team 37 Cash flow statement 12 Portfolio 38 Significant accounting policies 18 Risks and uncertainties 41 Notes to the accounts 22 Corporate responsibility report 50 Investments 24 Board of Directors 51 Investment policy 25 Directors report 52 Portfolio valuation methodology Designed and produced by ibc Information for shareholders Radley Yeldar www.
com Annual r Annual repor eport t and ac and acc co ounts 2008 unts 2008 3i Infrastructure Limited 22 Grenville Street, St. Helier, Jersey, Channel Islands JE4 8PX Telephone 44 0 1534 609000 Fax 44 0 1534 609333 Website www.
com M6 1108 3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008
