38 3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 Significant accounting policies 3i Infrastructure Limited the Company is a company incorporated Basis of preparation in Jersey, Channel Islands.
The consolidated financial statements for The financial statements are presented in sterling, the functional the period to 31 March 2008 comprise the financial statements currency of the Company, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the pounds 0.1 million except where otherwise indicated.
Separate financial statements of the Company are also The Company was incorporated on 16 January 2007.
The accounting policies of the Company are the same believes that presenting the information from 16 January 2007 to as for the Group, except where separately disclosed.
31 March 2007 would not be meaningful as there were limited The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors operations in this period and accordingly have prepared the accounts on 11 June 2008. from 16 January 2007 to 31 March 2008.
This is the first period in which the Group has operated, therefore Statement of compliance no comparatives are presented.
These consolidated and separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS Standards, International Accounting Standards and their requires the Board to make judgments, estimates and assumptions interpretations as issued or adopted by the International Accounting that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets Standards Board as adopted for use in the European Union IFRS.
and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on experience and other factors that are These consolidated and separate financial statements have also believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results been prepared in accordance with and in compliance with Jersey of which form the basis of making the judgments about carrying Company Law.
values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
New standards and interpretations not applied The International Accounting Standards Board IASB has issued A.
Basis of consolidation the following standards and interpretations to be applied to financial i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
periods commencing on or after the following dates: Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or Effective for the period beginning on or after indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity IFRS 2 Amendment Share-based Payments: so as to obtain benefit from its activities.
The financial statements of Vesting conditions and cancellations 1 January 2009 subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009 IAS 1 Revised Presentation ii Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has of Financial Statements 1 January 2009 significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Revised 1 January 2009 policies.
Investments that are held as part of the Groups investment portfolio are carried in the balance sheet at fair value even though IAS 27 Amendment Consolidated and the Group may have significant influence over those companies.
separate financial statements 1 July 2009 This treatment is permitted by IAS 28 Investment in Associates, IFRIC 12 Service Concession which requires investments held by venture capital organisations to Arrangements 1 January 2009 be excluded from its scope where those investments are designated, IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Payments 1 July 2008 upon initial recognition, as at fair value through profit or loss and IFRIC 14 IAS 19: The limit on a accounted for in accordance with IAS 39, with changes in fair value defined benefit asset, recognised in the income statement in the period of the change.
minimum funding requirements The Group has no interests in associates through which it carries and their interaction 1 January 2008 on its business.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances, The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising and interpretations will have a material impact on the financial from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the statements in the period of initial application and have decided not consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from to adopt these early.
transactions with jointly-controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 39 B.
Exchange differences b Unrealised profits on the revaluation of investments is the i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in currencies movement in the carrying value of investments between the start different from the functional currency of the Group entity entering and end of the accounting period, or the investment date and the end into the transaction are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the of the accounting date converted into sterling using the exchange date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in rates in force at the end of the period: foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to sterling c Portfolio income is that portion of income that is directly related at the exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences to the return from individual investments.
It is recognised to the arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
extent that it is probable that there will be an economic benefit Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of and the income can be reliably measured.
The following specific historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange recognition criteria must be met before the income is recognised: rate at the date of the transactions.
Non-monetary assets and Dividends from equity investments are recognised in the liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair income statement when the shareholders rights to receive value are translated to sterling using exchange rates ruling at the payment have been established to the extent that dividends, date the fair value was determined.
paid out of pre-acquisition reserves, adjust the fair value of ii Financial statements of non-sterling operations The assets the equity investment: and liabilities of operations whose functional currency is not Income from loans and receivables is recognised as it accrues by sterling, including fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest are translated to sterling at exchange rates ruling at the balance rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts the sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of these operations are estimated future cash flows through the expected life of the translated to sterling at rates approximating to the exchange rates financial asset to the assets carrying value.
ruling at the date of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in a separate component D. Fees of equity, the translation reserve, and are released upon disposal i Fees Fees payable represents fees incurred in the process to of the non-sterling operation.
C. Investment portfolio ii Advisory fee An annual advisory fee is payable to 3i plc i Recognition and measurement Investments are recognised and based on the Gross Investment Value of the Company.
The fee is derecognised on a date where the purchase or sale of an investment payable quarterly in advance and is accrued in the period it is incurred.
is under a contract whose terms require the delivery or settlement Further explanations are provided in note 17. of the investments.
The Group manages its investments with a view iii Performance fee 3i plc is entitled to a performance fee to profiting from the receipt of interest and dividends and changes based on the Adjusted Total Return per ordinary share generated in fair value of equity investments.
Therefore, all quoted investments in the period in excess of a performance hurdle.
The fee is payable and unquoted equity investments are designated as at fair value annually in arrears and is accrued in the period it is incurred.
through profit or loss and subsequently carried in the balance sheet Further explanations are provided in note 17. at fair value.
Other investments include loan investments and fixed income shares which are classified as loans and receivables and E. Treasury assets and liabilities subsequently carried in the balance sheet at amortised cost less Short-term treasury assets and short and long-term treasury impairment.
All investments are initially recognised at the fair value of liabilities are used to manage cash flows and overall costs of the consideration given and held at this value until it is appropriate to borrowing.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the measure fair value on a different basis, applying the Groups valuation balance sheet when the relevant Group entity becomes a party policy on page 52.
Acquisition costs are attributed to equity and debt to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
investments and recognised immediately in the income statement.
i Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the Subsidiaries in the separate financial statements of the Company are balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term accounted for at cost less provision for impairment.
deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the ii Income purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents a Realised profits over value on the disposal of investments is comprise cash and short-term deposits as defined above.
the difference between the fair value of the consideration received ii Bank loans, loan notes and borrowings Loans and borrowings less any directly attributable costs, on the sale of equity and the are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received repayment of loans and receivables, and its carrying value at the start net of issue costs associated with the borrowings.
After initial of the accounting period, converted into sterling using the exchange recognition, these are subsequently measured at amortised cost rates in force at the date of disposal: using the effective interest method, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash flows through the expected life of the liabilities.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
40 3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 Significant accounting policies continued iii Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial Under article 123A of the Income Tax Jersey Law 1961, instruments may be used to manage the risk associated with foreign as amended, the Company has obtained Jersey exempt company currency fluctuations of portfolio income, investment portfolio and status for the period and is therefore exempt from Jersey income changes in interest rates on its borrowings.
This is achieved by the tax on non-Jersey source income and bank interest by concession.
use of forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps.
A 600 annual exempt company fee is payable by the Company.
Such instruments shall be used for the sole purpose of efficient Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on portfolio management.
All derivative financial instruments are held differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities at fair value.
in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value in the computation of taxable profit temporary differences, on the contract date and subsequently remeasured to the fair value and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable is determined by discounting future cash flows at the prevailing temporary differences.
Where there are taxable differences arising market rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of interest rate on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint swaps is determined with reference to future cash flows and current ventures, deferred tax liabilities are recognised except where the interest and exchange rates.
All changes in the fair value of derivative Group is able to control reversal of the temporary difference and financial instruments are taken to the income statement.
it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future.
F. Other assets Assets, other than those specifically accounted for under a separate Deferred tax assets are generally recognised to the extent that policy, are stated at their cost less impairment losses.
The cost of it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which such asset or liability is considered approximate to their fair value.
deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
However, where They are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there are deductible temporary differences arising from investments there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, in subsidiaries, branches and associates, and interests in joint ventures, the assets recoverable amount is estimated based on expected deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is discounted future cash flows.
Any change in levels of impairment is probable that both the temporary differences will reverse in the recognised directly in the income statement.
An impairment loss is forseeable future and taxable profits will be available against which reversed at subsequent balance sheet dates to the extent that the the temporary differences can be utilised.
assets carrying amount does not exceed its carrying value, had no The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each impairment been recognised.
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow G. Other liabilities all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Liabilities, other than those specifically accounted for under a separate policy, are stated based on the amounts which are considered to be Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary payable in respect of goods or services received up to the balance differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill and other sheet date.
assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
H. Share capital Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply Share capital issued by the Company is recognised at the fair in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised using value of proceeds received credited to the stated capital account.
tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted Direct issue costs net of tax are deducted from equity.
The stated by the balance sheet date.
capital account was reduced by Court order on 20 December 2007 and the balance transferred to a new distributable reserve in accordance with Jersey Law.
Income taxes Income taxes represent the sum of the tax currently payable, withholding taxes suffered and deferred tax.
Tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the tax is also dealt with in equity.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the period.
This may differ from the profit included in the consolidated income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
