Accounting policies Basis of preparation Accounting estimates and judgements The financial statements have been prepared in Preparation of the financial statements accordance with International Financial necessitates the use of estimates, assumptions Reporting Standards, as adopted by the Eu, and judgements.
These estimates, assumptions IFRS and interpretations issued by the and judgements affect the reported values of International Financial Reporting Interpretations assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at Committee or its predecessors IFRIC, which the balance sheet date as well as affecting the had been approved by the European reported income and expenses for the year.
Although the estimates are based on managements knowledge and judgement of The financial statements have been prepared information and financial data, the actual on the historical cost basis, except that certain outcome may differ from these estimates.
The of the Groups financial instruments are stated key assumptions which affect these results for at their fair values and the measurement of the year and the balances as at the year-end long-term employee benefits at present value are specifically identified, where appropriate, in of the obligation less fair value of any assets the following notes to the Group financial held to settle the obligation.
accounting policies, which have been consistently applied, are set out below.
a Amortisation periods used for intangible assets note 14 The Group has adopted the following b Impairment testing of goodwill and standards and interpretations during the intangible assets note 14 financial year: c Deferred tax assets note 17 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures d Provisions note 31 IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of e Pensions note 35 Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures f Share-based payments note 25 These standards have not had any impact on On 27 March 2008 the Groups wholly owned the Groups financial statements other than to subsidiary, Aberdeen Property Investors Holding amend the disclosure of capital, financial AB, completed the acquisition of 100% of the instruments and risks and the disclosures are ordinary share capital of DEGI Deutsche shown primarily in notes 30 and 38 to the Gesellschaft fr Immobilienfonds mbH 'DEGI' financial statements.
The transfer of economic benefits was effective from The group have also adopted the amendments 1 January 2008 and the Group governed the to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition operational and financial policies of DEGI from and Measurement and IFRS 7 Financial that date.
The effective date of acquisition is Instruments: Disclosures from 1 July 2008 and therefore 1 January 2008. the impact on the financial statements is explained in notes 16 and 21.
New standards and interpretations The Group has classified certain seed capital not applied investments made during the year as assets During the year, a number of new standards held for sale as described in note 23. and interpretations have been issued with effective dates after the date of these financial Statement of compliance statements.
The directors do not anticipate Both the parent company financial statements that the adoption of these standards and and the Group financial statements have been interpretations will materially impact on the prepared and approved by the directors in Groups financial statements in the period of accordance with IFRS.
On publishing the initial application although there will be parent company financial statements here revised and additional disclosures.
The Group together with the Group financial statements, plans to apply these standards in the reporting the Company is taking advantage of the period in which they become effective.
The exemption in section 230 of the Companies new standards and interpretations which have Act 1985 not to present its individual income been endorsed by the European Commission statement and related notes that form part of include: the approved financial statements.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 59 Accounting policies continued IFRS 8 Operating Segments Standards and interpretations not endorsed: IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirement and their Interaction.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Revision including requiring a statement of comprehensive income.
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Consequential amendments arising to IFRS 3.
IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Amendments relating to vesting conditions and cancellations.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations Comprehensive revision on applying the acquisition method.
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items.
until 30 June 2008, the Group managed Basis of consolidation private equity investments on behalf of its The consolidated financial information clients and these investments were held by contained within these financial statements limited partnerships.
IAS 27 defines control as incorporates the results, cash flows and the power to govern the financial and financial position of the Company and its operating policies of an entity so as to obtain subsidiaries for the period to 30 September benefits.
Benefits in this context are 2008.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by interpreted as ownership benefits.
Whilst the the Company and are included from the date Group had a small interest in the limited that control commences until the date that partnerships, the Groups principal business control ceases.
Control exists when the Group rationale was to earn management fees by has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern managing the partnerships on behalf of the financial and operating policies of an entity investors.
On that basis the Group considers it so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
did not control the operating and financial The consolidated financial statements include decisions of the investee companies so as to the Groups share of the total recognised obtain benefits of ownership.
Consequently, gains and losses of associates on an equity limited partnerships and any significant accounted basis, from the date that significant investment holdings were not consolidated but influence commences until the date that were held at fair value as set out in the significant influence ceases.
Associates are financial instruments policy.
those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the Business combinations financial and operating policies.
When the The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in using the purchase method.
The cost of the an associate, the carrying amount is reduced acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the to nil and recognition of further losses is fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets discontinued except to the extent that the given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and Group has incurred legal or constructive equity instruments issued by the Group in obligations or made payments on behalf of exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any an associate.
costs directly attributable to the business All inter-company transactions, balances, combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, income and expenses between Group entities liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet are eliminated on consolidation.
unrealised the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 gains arising from transactions with associates Business Combinations are recognised at their are eliminated to the extent of the Groups fair values at the acquisition date.
unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
60 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 and expense is reversed out and the full gain or Revenue loss from purchase, after any impairment Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is charge previously recognised, is taken through probable that economic benefits will flow to the consolidated income statement.
the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is recognised as the Realised gains and losses on investments are services are provided and includes calculated as the difference between the net management fees, transaction fees, sales proceeds and cost or amortised cost.
performance fees and registration fees.
unrealised gains and losses on investments represent the difference between the valuation Initial income from the sale of shares in open of investments at the balance sheet date and ended investment companies received in their original cost or, if they have been advance is taken to the balance sheet and previously revalued, the valuation at the last amortised over the period of the asset balance sheet date.
The movement in management service, which is estimated based unrealised gains and losses recognised in the on the Groups experience of the average period also includes the reversal of gains or holding periods by investors.
losses previously recognised on investments The Group is entitled to earn performance fees disposed of during the current accounting from a number of clients where the actual period.
performance of the clients assets exceeds The Group has taken advantage during the defined benchmarks by an agreed level of year of the amendment to IAS 39 which outperformance over a set time period.
permits the reclassification in rare Performance fees are recognised when the circumstances of financial assets out of fair quantum of the fee can be estimated reliably, value through profit or loss.
Further details of which is normally at the end of the this are set out in notes 16 and 21. performance period, when this occurs on or before the reporting date, or where there is a period of less than six months remaining to Exceptional income and costs the end of the performance period and there is Where the Group incurs significant nonevidence at the reporting date which suggests recurring expenditure or earns significant nonthat the current performance will be recurring income in respect of items that arise sustainable.
outwith the Groups normal business activities and which are sufficiently material to warrant separate disclosure then the expenditure Finance revenue incurred is separately recognised on the face of Finance revenue comprises interest and the income statement as exceptional in order dividends.
Interest income is recognised using to provide more helpful information to the effective interest rate method as it accrues.
Dividend income is recognised when the Groups right to receive payment is established which, in the case of listed securities, is the Finance costs ex-dividend date.
Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses on investments Leases Gains and losses both realised and unrealised All Group leases are operating leases, being on financial assets designated as held for leases where the lessor retains substantially all trading are recognised in the consolidated the risks and rewards of ownership of the income statement.
Realised and unrealised leased asset.
gains are recognised as part of revenue.
Rental payments made under operating leases Gains and losses on financial assets designated are charged to the income statement on a as available-for-sale are initially recognised straight line basis over the term of the lease.
through the consolidated statement of Lease incentives received by the Group are recognised income and expense.
upon recognised as a reduction in the rental disposal, any gain or loss taken through the expense, recognised on a straight line basis consolidated statement of recognised income over the term of the lease.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 61 Accounting policies continued Pension costs Employee benefits The principal pension scheme operated by the short term employee benefits Group is a group personal pension scheme.
In Short term employee benefits are recognised addition overseas subsidiaries make as an undiscounted expense and liability when contributions to various trade and state the employee has rendered services during an defined contribution schemes.
Short term accumulating to these defined contribution pension schemes compensated absences are recognised when are recognised as an expense in the income the employee renders the service that statement as they become payable under the increases his entitlement to future rules of the schemes.
Non-accumulating compensated absences are recognised when The Group also operates three legacy defined the absence occurs.
benefit pension schemes in the uK which arose on acquisitions.
All three schemes are Profit sharing and bonus payments closed to new membership and to future These are recognised when there is a present service accruals.
In addition, defined benefit legal or constructive obligation to make such scheme obligations were added with the payments as a result of past events and a acquisition of DEGI during the year.
The reliable estimate of the obligation can be Groups net obligation in respect of these made.
schemes is calculated separately for each share based payments scheme by estimating the amount of future The Executive Share Option Scheme allows benefit that members have earned in return for Group employees to acquire shares of the their service in prior periods: that benefit is Company.
The fair value of options granted discounted to determine its present value, and after 7 November 2002 is recognised as an the fair value of any scheme assets is employee expense with a corresponding deducted.
The benefits are discounted at a increase in equity.
The fair value is measured rate equal to the yield on high credit rated at grant date and spread over the period over corporate bonds that have maturity dates which the employee becomes unconditionally approximating to the terms of the Groups entitled to the options.
The fair value of the obligations.
The calculation is performed by a options granted is measured using a trinomial qualified actuary using the projected unit lattice model, taking into account the terms credit method.
and conditions upon which the options were The surplus or deficit in respect of defined granted.
The amount recognised as an expense benefit schemes is expressed as the excess or is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shortfall of the fair value of the assets of the share options that vest except where forfeiture scheme compared to the present value of the is due only to share prices not achieving the scheme liabilities and is recognised as an asset threshold for vesting.
or liability of the Group.
The fair value of awards under the Groups Interest costs on the liability, expected return long term incentive plan LTIP is recognised on plan assets and the costs of curtailments as an expense with a corresponding increase in and settlements are recognised in the income equity.
The fair value is initially measured at statement.
the date of the award and is spread over the period during which employees become Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the unconditionally entitled to the shares.
The fair period in which they occur directly in equity.
value of LTIP awards is based on the market When the calculation results in a benefit to price of the underlying shares at the date of the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the award, taking into account the terms and the present value of any future refunds from conditions upon which the award was made.
the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
62 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Where the Company makes awards under the Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised LTIP to employees of its subsidiaries it for all taxable temporary differences and recharges the cost of these awards to each deferred tax assets are recognised to the subsidiary based on the fair value of the shares extent that it is probable that taxable profits awarded.
will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised, except: termination benefits Termination benefits are recognised as an in respect of taxable or deductible expense and liability when the Group is temporary differences associated with committed to the termination of employment investments in subsidiaries and joint before the normal retirement date.
A ventures, where the timing of the reversal of commitment to such termination benefits the temporary differences can be controlled arises when the Group has initiated detailed and it is probable that they will not reverse plans which cannot realistically be withdrawn.
where the deferred tax asset or liability Employee Benefits Trust arises from the initial recognition of goodwill.
The Group has an Employee Benefits Trust EBT which owns shares in the Company for where the deferred tax asset or liability the purposes of administering the Groups arises from the initial recognition of an asset Long Term Incentive Plan and the deferred or liability in a transaction that share element of annual bonuses.
The EBT is is not a business combination: and consolidated into the Groups financial at the time of the transaction, affects statements, with these shares deducted from neither accounting profit nor loss.
Any consideration received for such shares is recognised within retained earnings.
Property, plant & equipment No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or Property, plant & equipment is stated at cost cancellation of equity shares.
less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Taxation Expenditure on property, plant & equipment is capitalised on initial recognition.
Subsequent Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises expenditure is only capitalised when it is current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in probable that there will be future economic the income statement except to the extent benefits associated with the item and the cost that it relates to items recognised directly in of the item can be measured reliably.
All other equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
expenditure is recognised as an expense in the Current tax is the expected tax payable on the income statement as incurred.
taxable profit for the year, using tax rates Property, plant & equipment is depreciated so enacted or substantively enacted at the as to write off the cost of assets, on a straight balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax line basis, over their estimated useful lives as payable in respect of previous years.
follows: Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable Heritable property: 50 years or recoverable on differences between the Leasehold property: over the period of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the lease financial statements and the corresponding Property improvements: shorter of 5 years or basis used for tax purposes.
the period of the lease Deferred tax is provided using the balance Computers, fixtures & fittings: 3 10 years sheet liability method and is calculated at the Motor vehicles: 4 years tax rates that are expected to apply when the Depreciation is recognised as an expense in the asset is realised or the liability settled.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 63 Accounting policies continued The carrying value of these assets is reviewed value at the date of acquisition is calculated at each reporting date.
An assessment is made using discounted cash flow methodology and as to whether there is any indication that an represents the valuation of the net residual asset may be impaired: if any such indication income stream arising from the management exists and where the carrying value exceeds contracts in place at the date of acquisition.
the estimated recoverable amount, the assets The contracts are included in the balance sheet are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the greater of fair The useful lives of management contracts in value less costs to sell and value in use.
Any respect of open end funds are considered to be impairment losses are recognised in the indefinite and are therefore not subject to income statement.
The indefinite nature of these An item of property, plant and equipment is contracts is re-assessed on an annual basis to derecognised upon disposal or when no further ensure that the policy remains appropriate.
future economic benefits are expected from its The Group tests for impairment of these assets use.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition annually or more frequently if there is an of the asset calculated as the difference indication that the carrying amount may not between the net disposal proceeds and the be recoverable.
The recoverable amount is the carrying value of the asset is included in the greater of fair value less costs to sell and value Income Statement in the year the asset is in use.
Management contracts in respect of derecognised.
segregated mandates are considered to have a finite life and are therefore amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated average Intangible assets contract term of 10 years, with amortisation Goodwill charged to the income statement.
Goodwill arising on consolidation, representing Other intangible assets software the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Purchased intangible assets have a finite life fair value of the Groups share of the and are stated at cost less accumulated identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent amortisation and impairment losses.
liabilities acquired, is capitalised in the balance Amortisation is charged to the income sheet.
The carrying value of goodwill at statement on a straight line basis according to 1 October 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, the useful economic life of the intangible asset is equivalent to the carrying value under uK which, for software, is estimated at 3 years.
GAAP and is subject to annual impairment testing.
Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only when it Following initial recognition, goodwill is stated increases the future economic benefits at cost less any accumulated impairment embodied in the specific asset to which it losses.
An impairment review is carried out at relates.
All other expenditure is expensed as least annually and any impairment is recognised incurred.
At each reporting date, an immediately in the income statement and is assessment is made as to whether there is any not subsequently reversed.
Goodwill is indication that an asset in use may be allocated to the appropriate cash-generating impaired.
If any such indication exists and the unit for the purpose of impairment testing.
carrying values exceed the estimated Management contracts recoverable amount, the assets are written Intangible assets such as management down to their recoverable amount.
The contracts acquired as part of a business recoverable amount is the greater of the fair combination are capitalised where it is value less costs to sell and value in use.
Where probable that future economic benefits intangible software assets are not yet available attributable to the assets will flow to the for use, an assessment of whether the carrying Group and the fair value of the assets can be values exceed the estimated recoverable measured reliably.
amount is made irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment.
The management contracts are recorded initially at fair value and then amortised, if appropriate, over their useful lives.
The fair 64 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 carried interest distributions, both of which are Financial instruments measured with reference to the International Financial instruments are recognised initially at Private Equity and venture Capital Association fair value plus, in the case of investments not valuation Guidelines.
at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
They are Loans and receivables and other financial categorised as described below.
liabilities are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The fair value of financial instruments that are actively traded on organised financial markets Convertible bonds that can be converted to is determined by reference to quoted market share capital at the option of the holder, where bid prices at the close of business on the the number of shares issued does not vary balance sheet date.
For investments where with changes in their fair value, are accounted there is no active market, the fair value is for as compound financial instruments with a determined using valuation techniques.
These liability and equity component.
Transaction techniques include recent arms length market costs that relate to the issue of a compound transactions, reference to the current market financial instrument are allocated to the value of another financial instrument which is liability and equity components in proportion substantially the same: discounted cashflow to the allocation of proceeds.
The equity analysis and option pricing models.
component of the convertible bonds is calculated as the excess of the issue proceeds Financial instruments are categorised as over the present value of the future interest described below.
and principal payments, discounted at the Financial investments at fair value through market rate of interest applicable to similar profit or loss include investments held for liabilities that do not have a conversion option.
They are carried at fair value The interest expense recognised in the income in the balance sheet and gains or losses are statement is calculated using the effective taken to the income statement in the period in interest rate method.
The following assets and The Group has adopted trade date accounting.
liabilities are classified as financial instruments Accordingly, a financial investment is at fair value through profit or loss: recognised on the date the Group commits to Current assets its purchase and derecognised on the date on Financial investments which the Group commits to its sale.
Stock of units and shares Assets held for sale Current liabilities Assets acquired with the intention to Investment contract liabilities subsequently dispose of them by sale are classified as held for sale and measured at the Available for sale financial assets are also lower of their carrying amount and fair value carried at fair value in the balance sheet.
Movements in fair value are taken to the fair value reserve until derecognition of the asset, Assets are only considered to be classified as at which time the cumulative amount dealt held for sale if: with through this reserve is recognised in the a the carrying amount will be recovered income statement.
through a sale transaction rather than The following assets are designated as through continuing use: available for sale: b management is committed to the sale within one year of acquisition: Non-current assets c the asset is available for immediate sale in Other investments its present condition: Included in this category are the Groups d the asset is marketed for sale at a price that investments in private equity partnerships.
The is reasonable in relation to its current fair fair value of these investments represents the value.
Groups direct investments and entitlement to Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 65 Accounting policies continued exceeds its recoverable amount.
The Cash and cash equivalents recoverable amount for any asset or cashCash and cash equivalents comprise cash generating unit is the higher of its value in use balances, call deposits and investments in and its fair value less costs to sell.
money market instruments with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank Impairment losses recognised in respect of overdrafts that are repayable on demand are cash-generating units are allocated first to included as a component of cash and cash reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill equivalents for the purposes of the statement allocated to cash-generating units and then to of cash flows.
reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis.
Investment contracts Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an The Group sells unit linked life and pension impairment loss is reversed if there has been a contracts through its insurance subsidiary, change in the estimates used to determine the Aberdeen Asset Management Life and Pensions recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is Limited L&P.
Management fees earned reversed only to the extent that the assets from these contracts are accounted for as carrying amount does not exceed the carrying described in the accounting policy for revenue.
amount that would have been determined, net L&P is consolidated in the Group financial of depreciation or amortisation, if no statements on a line-by-line basis.
unit linked impairment loss had been recognised.
policyholder assets held by L&P and related policyholder liabilities are carried at fair value, Equity instruments with changes in fair value taken to profit or loss.
Preference share capital The issued preference capital is classified as an Amounts received from and paid to investors element of equity as it is irredeemable, except under these contracts are treated as deposits at the Companys option, and dividend received or paid and therefore not recorded in payments are discretionary.
Dividends on the income statement.
Charges to investors preference shares are recognised as due under these contracts are recognised in distributions within equity.
At the balance sheet date the value of these contracts is stated at Perpetual subordinated capital securities an amount equal to the fair value of the net The 7.9% Perpetual subordinated capital assets held to match the contractual securities are classified as an element of equity obligations.
as the securities are irredeemable, except at the Companys option, and coupon payments are discretionary.
Coupon payments, net of Investments in subsidiaries attributable tax, are recognised as distributions In the Company balance sheet, investments in within equity.
subsidiaries are carried at cost less any Repurchase of share capital provision for impairment.
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration Impairment paid, which includes directly attributable costs, The Group performs annual impairment is net of any tax effects, and is recognised as a reviews in respect of goodwill and intangible deduction from equity.
When these shares are fixed assets with indefinite lives.
The Group sold or reissued subsequently, the amount carries out impairment reviews in respect of received is recognised as an increase in equity, property, plant & equipment and other assets, and the resulting surplus or deficit on the including fixed asset investments, whenever transaction is transferred to or from retained events or changes in circumstances indicate earnings.
Dividends on ordinary shares are that the carrying amount may not be recognised on the date of payment or, if recoverable.
subject to approval, the date approved by shareholders.
Dividends on certain own shares An impairment loss is recognised in the held by the Employee Benefit Trusts are waived income statement whenever the carrying by the Trustees.
amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit 66 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 date.
Where fair value movements in assets Provisions and liabilities are reflected in the income A provision is recognised in the balance sheet statement, the corresponding exchange when the Group has a present legal or movements are also recognised in the income constructive obligation as a result of a past statement.
Where fair value movements in event and it is probable that an outflow of assets and liabilities are reflected directly in economic benefits will be required to settle equity, the corresponding exchange the obligation.
If the effect is material, movements are also recognised directly in provisions are determined by discounting the equity.
expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the The assets and liabilities of foreign operations time value of money and, where appropriate, are translated to sterling at exchange rates the risks specific to the liability.
Where ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues discounting is used, the increase in the and expenses of foreign operations are provision due to the passage of time is translated to sterling at rates approximating to recognised as an interest expense.
No the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the provision is established where a reliable transactions.
estimate of the obligation cannot be made.
Hedge of net investment in Foreign currencies foreign operation The consolidated financial statements are Foreign currency differences arising on the presented in sterling, the Companys functional retranslation of a financial liability designated and presentation currency.
Each entity in the as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign Group determines its own functional currency operation are recognised directly in equity, in and items included in the financial statements the foreign currency translation reserve, to the of each entity are measured in that functional extent that the hedge is effective.
extent that the hedge is ineffective, such differences are recognised in profit or loss.
Transactions in foreign currencies are When the hedged part of a net investment is translated to the functional currency at the disposed of, the associated cumulative amount exchange rate ruling at the date of the in equity is transferred to profit or loss as an transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities adjustment to the profit or loss on disposal.
denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date and any exchange Segment reporting differences arising are taken to the income The Groups primary reporting segments are its statement.
two operating divisions, namely the fund management division and the property Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured division.
Additional information is provided by at historical cost in a foreign currency are geographic segment whereby the results of the translated to the functional currency using the Group are disclosed according to the exchange rate at the date of the transaction geographical location of its operating and so no exchange differences arise.
Nonsubsidiaries in the uK and Europe, Asia and monetary assets and liabilities stated at fair the Americas.
value in a foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 67
