statement of Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the The directors are responsible for keeping Annual Report and the Group and parent proper accounting records that disclose with company financial statements in accordance reasonable accuracy at any time the financial with applicable law and regulations.
position of the company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply Company law requires the directors to prepare with the Companies Act 1985.
They have Group and parent company financial general responsibility for taking such steps as statements for each financial year.
under that are reasonably open to them to safeguard the law they are required to prepare the financial assets of the company and to prevent and statements in accordance with International detect fraud and other irregularities.
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the Eu IFRS and applicable law and have The directors are responsible for the elected to prepare the parent company maintenance and integrity of the corporate financial statements on the same basis.
and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the uK The Group and parent company financial governing the preparation and dissemination statements are required by law and IFRS of financial statements may differ from adopted by the Eu to present fairly the state legislation in other jurisdictions.
of affairs of the Group and company and of the profit or loss of the Group and company under applicable law and regulations the for that period.
The Companies Act 1985 directors are also responsible for preparing a provides in relation to such financial Directors report, Remuneration report and statements that references in the relevant part Corporate governance statement that comply of the Act to financial statements giving a true with that law and those regulations.
and fair view are references to giving a fair presentation.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the Eu: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and parent company will continue in business.
56 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008
