Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty-sixth Annual General Meeting of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC will be held at The Marcliffe Hotel, North Deeside Road, Aberdeen, AB15 9YA at 12.00 noon on 22 January 2009 for the following purposes: For ease of reference, explanatory notes are attached to each resolution.
The formal resolutions are contained in bold text.
Resolutions 1 to 7 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
1 to receive the Directors Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 september 2008 together with the Auditors Report thereon.
Each financial year, the directors are required to present to the meeting the audited accounts and the directors and auditors reports for the financial year.
2 to declare a final dividend of 3.0 pence per ordinary share of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company ordinary share.
The board recommend that a final dividend of 3.0 pence per ordinary share is paid.
If approved by the shareholders, this dividend will be paid on 29 January 2009 to ordinary shareholders on the register of members at 5.00 pm on 12 December 2008.
3 to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors and to authorise the directors to agree their remuneration.
The Companys auditors must offer themselves for reappointment at each Annual General Meeting at which accounts are presented.
On the advice of the audit committee, the board propose that KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed as auditor of the Company.
4 to re-elect as a director Mr M J Gilbert who retires by rotation.
5 to re-elect as a director Mr A A Laing who retires by rotation.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that, one third of the directors must retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting and that no director may serve beyond three years without offering themselves for re-election by the shareholders.
In accordance with these provisions and following the decision by Mr Irby not to seek re-election, Mr Gilbert and Mr Laing offer themselves for re-election.
Biographies of each of these directors are contained on page 33.
The chairman confirms that following the completion of the annual performance evaluation and appraisal exercise, the performance of both directors seeking re-election continues to be effective and that these directors demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Their re-election is therefore recommended.
6 to approve the Remuneration Report.
The Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act requires the directors to prepare an annual report detailing the remuneration of the directors and the Companys remuneration policy and to seek shareholder approval to its contents.
The remuneration report is contained on pages 38 to 47.
7 that the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purpose of section 80 of the 1985 Act to exercise all the powers conferred pursuant to Article 12.2.
1 of the Companys Articles of Association up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 17,223,012 section 80 amount representing authorised unissued present share capital provided that this authority shall expire unless previously renewed varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010 the prescribed period.
This resolution seeks to renew the authority conferred on the directors at last years Annual General Meeting to allot the authorised but unissued share capital up to a maximum nominal amount of 17,223,012, which represents the authorised unissued present share capital at 8 December 2008.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of next years Annual General Meeting.
To consider the following resolutions which will be proposed as special resolutions: 8 that the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers conferred pursuant to Article 12.2.
2 of the Companys Articles of Association and pursuant to section 94 2 to section 94 3A of the 1985 Act up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 3,584,924 such authority to expire at the conclusion of the prescribed period the section 89 amount.
This resolution seeks to renew the authority conferred on the directors at last years Annual General Meeting to issue equity securities of the Company for cash other than on a pre-emptive basis as provided by the 1985 Act.
Other than in connection with a rights, scrip dividend or other similar issue, the authority contained in this resolution will be limited to issues of ordinary shares and or sales of treasury shares representing an aggregate nominal value of 3,584,924, which in turn represents 5% of the issued ordinary share capital at 8 December 2008.
124 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 9 that the Company is, pursuant to section 166 of the 1985 Act, hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the 1985 Act of ordinary shares provided that: 1 the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 71,698,483 representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: 2 the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary shares is 10 pence per ordinary share: 3 the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be the higher of not more than i 5 per cent above the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share on the London stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which any such purchase is made and ii the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current bid on the London stock Exchange: 4 the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which contract to purchase will be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make the purchase of the ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract and: 5 the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010.
This resolution renews the authority granted at last years Annual General Meeting and gives the Company authority to buy back its own ordinary shares as permitted by the 1985 Act.
The authority limits the number of ordinary shares that could be purchased to a maximum of 71,698,483, representing 10% of the issued share capital at 8 December 2008 and sets the minimum and maximum prices that can be paid.
This authority would only be exercised if the directors believed that to do so would result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the interests of the shareholders generally.
At present, the directors have no current intention of utilising this authority.
If this authority was exercised, the ordinary shares repurchased would be cancelled or held in treasury.
There are 79,925 convertible preference share units which consist of a preference share and a warrant in Aberdeen Warrants Jersey Limited which if exercised would eventually result in a total of 82,396,907 ordinary shares in Aberdeen in issue.
There are also 25,594,100 ordinary shares under option and 300 convertible bonds 2010 which if exercised or converted could result in a further 2,793,000 ordinary shares in Aberdeen in issue.
There would therefore be a further 110,784,007 ordinary shares in Aberdeen, if all rights to subscribe were exercised representing 15.5% of the current issued share capital but before the buyback authority is utilised and would represent 17.2% of the issued share capital if the full authority sought at the Annual General Meeting is utilised.
10 that in accordance with sections 366 to 367 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act the Company and all companies that are subsidiaries of the Company at any time during the period commencing on the date of this resolution and ending at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2010 be and is hereby authorised: 1 to make political donations to political parties, and or independent election candidates: 2 to make political donations to political organisations other than political parties: and 3 to incur political expenditure: up to an aggregate amount of 100,000 and the amount authorised under each of paragraphs 1 to 3 shall also be limited to such amount.
Words and expressions defined for the purposes of the 2006 Act shall have the same meaning in this resolution.
All existing authorisations and approvals relating to political donations or expenditure under section 347C of the 1985 Act are hereby revoked without prejudice to any donation made or expenditure incurred prior to the date hereof pursuant to such authorisation approval.
It is the Companys policy not to make any donations to political parties or incur political expenditure and the board does not intend to change that policy.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 125 Notice of Meeting continued The 1985 Act required companies to obtain shareholders authority for donations to registered parties and other political organisations totalling more than 5,000 in any twelve month period and for any political expenditure, subject to limited exceptions.
The definition of donations in this context was very wide and extended to bodies such as those concerned with policy review and law reform, with the representation of the business community or sections of it.
It could also have included special interest groups, such as those involved with the environment and campaigning charities.
The relevant provisions of the 1985 Act have been replaced by similar provisions in Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act with effect from 1 October 2007.
The terms of this years resolution have been adjusted to reflect the different technical requirements of Part 14 of the 2006 Act.
The board considers that it would be prudent, and to avoid inadvertent infringement of the 2006 Act, to obtain authority in accordance with Sections 366 to 367 of the 2006 Act to incur political expenditure, as defined in Section 365 of the 2006 Act, not exceeding 100,000 during the period from the date of the Annual General Meeting to the conclusion of next years Annual General Meeting.
By order of the board scott E Massie Secretary 10 Queens Terrace Aberdeen AB10 1YG 8 December 2008 Notes: 1 A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend, vote and speak instead of him.
A proxy need not be a Member of the Company but must attend the Meeting to represent you.
You may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
You may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise the rights attached to any one share.
A form of proxy is enclosed.
A Form of Proxy, in order to be valid, must be delivered to Equiniti Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZR not later than 12.00 noon on 20 January 2009.
The return of a completed Form of Proxy will not prevent you attending the meeting and voting in person if you wish to do so.
2 Copies of all contracts of service and letters of appointment of directors of the Company are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys registered office on any weekday except Saturdays and public holidays, and at the place of the meeting for a period of fifteen minutes prior to the Annual General Meeting and during the meeting.
3 Only those Members entered on the Companys Register of Members not later than 6.00pm on 20 January 2009 or, if the meeting is adjourned, shareholders entered on the Companys Register of Members not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend, vote and speak at the meeting.
126 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 4 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 22 January 2009 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear uK & Ireland Limiteds Euroclear specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer's agent ID RA19 by 12 noon on 20 January 2009.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuer's agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
5 You may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of Meeting or any related documents to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than as expressly stated.
6 In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate member has appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to the chairman and the chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate member attends the meeting but the corporate member has not appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate members are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details on this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
7 As at 8 December 2008, the Companys issued share capital comprised 716,985,867 of 10p each.
Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are also 79, 925 convertible preference share units in existence which each consist of one preference share in Aberdeen which in certain limited circumstances has voting rights and one warrant to subscribe for preference shares in Aberdeen Warrants Jerseyco Limited Jerseyco.
upon the exercise of a warrant, preference shares in Jerseyco will be issued which are then in accordance with the terms of the Jerseyco warrants immediately exchangeable for ordinary shares in Aberdeen.
The total number of ordinary shares in Aberdeen which could result after the exercise of warrants and subsequent share exchange are 82,396,907 ordinary shares with voting rights.
There are also 25,594,100 ordinary shares under option and 300 convertible bonds 2010 which if exercised or converted would result in a further 2,793,000 of ordinary shares in aggregate with voting rights.
The total number of voting rights in the Company as at 8 December 2008 is 716,985,867 ordinary shares.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 127
