Directors Responsibility Statement The Directors are required by law to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors are also required to prepare a Directors Report, Business Review, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select appropriate accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
The Directors are also responsible for ensuring that the Annual Report includes information required by the Listing Rules and the Transparency and Disclosure Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with these requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that proper accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, and for maintaining adequate systems of internal control, which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Annual Report is published on www.
co. uk, which is the website maintained by the Companys Manager.
The work undertaken by the Auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of the website and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Declaration Each of the Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: a the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and b the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
On behalf of the Board David R Shaw Chairman 27 January 2009 34
