Appendix to the Notice of AGM Summary of the proposed material changes to the Articles of Association of the Company The principal changes which would arise from the adoption of the New Articles are set out below.
Electronic and web communication Provisions of the 2006 Act which came into force in January 2007 enable companies to communicate with members by electronic means and or website communication.
The New Articles contain a number of provisions designed to maximise the Companys ability to use electronic systems, including websites, for communication with Shareholders.
The New Articles give the directors the discretion to use electronic communication to distribute notices of meetings, annual reports, accounts and summary financial statements.
Before the Company can communicate with a member by means of website communication, the relevant member must be asked individually by the Company to agree that the Company may send or supply documents or information to him by means of a website, and the Company must either have received a positive response or have received no response within the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the request was sent.
The Company will notify the member either in writing, or by other permitted means when relevant documents or information are placed on the website and a member can always request a hard copy version of the document or information.
Form of resolutions and convening meetings The existing Articles contain provisions referring to extraordinary resolutions and extraordinary general meetings.
These concepts have been abolished under the 2006 Act with effect from 1 October 2007.
Meetings of shareholders other than annual general meetings are referred to simply as general meetings.
Any resolution requiring a 75 per cent.
majority will be a special resolution.
The provisions of the existing Articles dealing with the convening of general meetings and annual general meetings and the length of notice required to convene such meetings are amended in the New Articles to conform to the new provisions of the 2006 Act.
In particular, general meetings to consider special resolutions can now be convened on 14 clear days notice whereas previously 21 clear days notice was required.
The annual general meeting of the Company still requires 21 clear days notice.
Proxies Under the 2006 Act, proxies are entitled to vote on a show of hands, whereas under the existing Articles proxies are only entitled to vote on a poll.
The time limits for the appointment of proxies have also been altered by the 2006 Act so weekends and bank holidays can be excluded for the purposes of the timing for delivery of proxies.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares held by the shareholder.
The New Articles reflect these changes.
Directors Fees It is proposed to increase the aggregate maximum amount per annum that the Directors may be paid, out of funds of the Company, by way of fees for their services as Directors from 125,000 to 200,000.
Conflicts of interest The New Articles reflect the new provisions of the 2006 Act in relation to directors conflicts of interests which came into force on 1 October 2008.
The 2006 Act sets out directors general duties which largely codify the existing law but with some changes.
Under the 2006 Act a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the Companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company, an advisor to the Company or a trustee of another organisation.
The 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, insofar as the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The 2006 55 Appendix to the Notice of AGM Act also allows articles to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
There are safeguards in the New Articles which will apply when directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and second, in taking the decision, the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
It is also proposed that the New Articles contain provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at board meetings and the availability of board papers to protect a director being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or a potential conflict of interest arises.
It is proposed that the New Articles will contain provisions giving the directors authority to approve situations involving directors conflicts of interest and to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with by the Board.
Periodic retirement The Combined Code on Corporate Governance recommends that directors must submit themselves for election by Shareholders at the first annual general meeting after their appointment and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
The New Articles reflect these provisions.
Stock The existing Articles provide that the Company may by ordinary resolution convert any fully paid shares into stock.
The 2006 Act abolishes the power to convert shares into stock but allows a company that currently has stock to re-convert this stock back into paid up shares of any nominal value by means of an ordinary resolution.
The 2006 Act removes the current requirement for a companys articles to permit re-conversion, but a company wishing to re-convert its stock will still have to pass an ordinary resolution in advance authorising it to do so.
The New Articles reflect the provisions of the 2006 Act.
Indemnity of Officers and Insurance The Existing Articles already provide for the Company to indemnify any director or other officer of the Company subject to applicable law.
The New Articles take advantage of the new wording in the 2006 Act relating to directors indemnities, to the extent applicable to the Company, and reflect the current market standard provisions which have evolved since the existing indemnity provisions were adopted.
Requirements for registration of transfer and refusal to transfer The 2006 Act introduces a new requirement for companies to register transfers or to provide the transferee with reasons for refusal as soon as possible.
The New Articles reflect this new requirement.
CREST and the Uncertificated Securities Regulations The New Articles reflect the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and the 2006 Act provisions by permitting shareholders holding uncertificated shares to appoint, instruct, amend and revoke proxy appointments using the CREST system.
Articles that duplicate statutory provisions Certain other provisions in the current Articles which replicate provisions contained in companies legislation are amended to bring them into line with the 2006 Act.
My our proxy is to vote at their discretion unless otherwise indicated by an X below in respect of the Resolutions set out in the Notice of Meeting see Note 2.
That the Report and Accounts for the year to 31 December 2008 be adopted.
That Mr D R Shaw be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr H N Buchan be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr M L A Chiappelli be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr J E G Cran be re-elected as a Director.
That Prof P R Marsh be re-elected as a Director.
That Prof W S Nimmo be re-elected as a Director.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2008 be approved.
That Ernst & Young, LLP be re-appointed as Auditors and that the Directors be authorised to determined their remuneration.
That the Company be authorised to buy back Ordinary Shares.
That the Company adopt new Articles of Association.
Date.......................................................... NOTES: 1 If it is desired to appoint any other person s as proxy, the words the Chairman of the Meeting or should be struck out and the name and address of the other person s inserted in block letters in the space provided.
A proxy need not be a holder of Ordinary Shares.
Any alteration or deletion must be signed or initialled.
2 The manner in which the proxy is to vote should be indicated by inserting an X in the relevant box marked For, Against or Abstain.
If no such indication is given, the proxy will vote or abstain at his her discretion.
The proxy will act at his her discretion in relation to any other business arising at the Meeting including any resolution to adourn the Meeting.
A vote abstain is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for and against the resolution.
3 To register your vote electronically, log on to our registrars web site at www.
com and follow the instructions on screen.
You will require the investor code as printed above.
To be valid your proxy must be registered not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the Meeting.
Do not show these details to anyone unless you wish them to give proxy instructions on your behalf.
CREST users should note they can lodge their proxy votes for the meeting through the CREST proxy voting system.
For further instructions users should refer to the CREST User Manual.
Any CREST sponsored members should contact their CREST sponsor.
4 In the case of a corporation, this form of proxy should be either given under its seal or signed on its behalf by an attorney or duly authorised officer.
In the case of joint holders, the signature of any one of them will suffice, but the name of all joint holders should be shown.
5 Use of this form of proxy does not preclude a member of Ordinary Shares from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
6 To be valid this form of proxy must be lodged with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a notarised copy or a copy certified in accordance with the Power of Attorney Act 1971 of such power or authority, at the address overleaf, no later than 6.15 pm on 2 March 2009. sterling greenaways 110525 SECOND FOLD BUSINESS REPLY SERVICE Licence No.
MB122 2 CAPITA REGISTRARS PROXY DEPARTMENT P. O.
BOX 25 BECKENHAM KENT BR3 4BR THIRD FOLD AND TUCK IN FIRST FOLD
