Notice of the Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting of Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc will be held at 14 Melville Street, Edinburgh on 4 March 2009 at 6.15 pm for the following purposes: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Ordinary Resolutions: 1.
That the Report and Accounts for the year to 31 December 2008 be adopted.
That Mr D R Shaw be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr H N Buchan be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr M L A Chiappelli be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr J E G Cran be re-elected as a Director.
That Prof P R Marsh be re-elected as a Director.
That Prof W S Nimmo be re-elected as a Director.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2008 be approved.
That Ernst & Young LLP be re-appointed as Auditors and that the Directors be authorised to determine their remuneration.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Special Resolutions: 10.
That pursuant to and in accordance with its Articles of Association, the Company be and it is hereby authorised in accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section 103 3 of the Act of Ordinary Shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company Shares, provided that: a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the issued share capital of the Company on the date on which this resolution is passed: b the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 1p being the nominal value of a Share: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share shall be the higher of i 5% above the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the Shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out: d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 31 July 2010 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010, save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase Shares under such authority which will or might be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
That the draft regulations produced to the meeting and, for the purposes of identification, initialled by the Chairman of the meeting be adopted as the articles of association of the Company in substitution for, and to the entire exclusion of, the existing articles of association of the Company.
By Order of the Board Aberforth Partners LLP, Secretaries 14 Melville Street, Edinburgh EH3 7NS 27 January 2009 53 Notes to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting 1.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at this meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and, on a poll, vote on his her behalf.
Such a proxy need not also be a member of the Company.
A Form of Proxy for use by Shareholders is enclosed.
Completion of the Form of Proxy will not prevent a Shareholder from attending the meeting and voting in person.
To register your vote electronically, log on to the registrars web site at www.
com and follow the instructions on screen.
You will require your investor code.
CREST users should note they can lodge their proxy votes for the meeting through the CREST proxy voting system.
For further instructions users should refer to the CREST User Manual.
Any CREST sponsored members should contact their CREST sponsor.
You may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
You may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share.
To appoint more than one proxy, please contact the Registrars of the Company.
If you submit more than one valid proxy appointment, the appointment received last before the latest time for the receipt of proxies will take precedence.
To be valid the proxy form must be completed and lodged, together with the power of attorney or any authority if any under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power of authority, with the Registrars of the Company no later than 48 hours before the time set for the meeting, or any adjourned meeting.
Members who have general queries about the Meeting should contact the Secretaries in writing.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this notice of annual general meeting or any related documents including the proxy form, to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate member has appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that member at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the chairman and the chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate member attends the meeting but the corporate member has not appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representative who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate members are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of the procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
As at 27 January 2009, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Company had 96,900,000 Ordinary Shares in issue with a total of 96,900,000 voting rights.
Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting rights of the Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The members of the Company may require the Company to publish, on its website, a statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts, including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit.
The Company will be required to do so once it has received such requests from either members representing at least 5% of the total voting rights of the Company or at least 100 members who have a relevant right to vote and hold shares in the Company on which there has been paid up an average sum per member of at least 100.
The Directors letters of appointment and a copy of the proposed new articles of association of the Company will be available for inspection for 15 minutes prior to the Annual General Meeting and during the meeting.
