2 f I n A n c I A L s tAt E M E n t s for periods beginning on or after 1 January Notes to the financial 2009 and the Group has elected not to adopt statements the Amendment in advance of the effective date.
Although it will introduce a number of 1.
General information and basis changes to the presentation of the primary financial statements, it will not change the of preparation recognition, measurement or disclosure of transactions or events that are required by General information other IFRS.
Admiral Group plc is a Company incorporated in England and Wales.
Its registered office is IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes is at Capital Tower, Greyfriars Road, Cardiff CF10 effective for periods beginning on or after 3AZ and its shares are listed on the London 1 July 2008.
It is not applicable during the Stock Exchange.
current accounting period, and on adoption will not have a material impact on the Groups The financial statements comprise the financial statements.
results and balances of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Amendment to IFRS 2 Share Based Payment: Group for the year ended 31 December 2008 Vesting Conditions and Cancellations is and comparative figures for the year ended 31 effective for periods beginning on or after 1 December 2007.
The financial statements of January 2009.
On adoption, it will not have the Companys subsidiaries are consolidated in a material impact on the Groups financial the Group financial statements.
controls 100% of the voting share capital of all its subsidiaries.
The Parent Company financial Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs is also statements present information about the effective for periods beginning on or after 1 Company as a separate entity and not about January 2009.
It is not applicable during the its Group.
In accordance with International current accounting period, and on adoption Accounting Standard IAS 24, transactions will not have a material impact on the Groups or balances between Group companies that financial statements.
have been eliminated on consolidation are not reported as related party transactions.
There are a number of standards, amendments to standards and interpretations that were The consolidated financial statements have issued by 31 December 2008 but have either been prepared and approved by the Directors yet to be endorsed by the EU, or were in accordance with International Financial endorsed shortly after the year end.
These are Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by as follows: the European Union EU.
The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company financial Amendments to IAS 32 and IAS 1 Puttable statements in accordance with UK Generally Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising Accepted Accounting Practice GAAP.
on Liquidation Amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 27 Cost of an Adoption of new and revised standards Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled The Group has applied all adopted IFRS and Entity or Associate interpretations endorsed by the EU at 31 December 2008, including all amendments to Improvements to IFRSs 2007 extant standards that are not effective until later Revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations accounting periods, except for those listed below: Revised IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of IFRS Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial IFRIC 12 Service Concession Agreements Statements: A Revised Presentation IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes Real Estate Amendment to IFRS 2 Share Based Payment: Vesting Conditions and Cancellations IFRIC 16 Hedges of Net Investment in A Foreign Operation Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: A Revised Presentation is effective Chairmans 4 4- -5 5 6-7 8-9 10-15 16-33 34-47 48-53 54-104 Admiral Admiral Gr Group oup 2008 Financial Chief Executives Business review Governance & Board of Directors Financial statement in in 2008 2008 highlights statement Remuneration & Directors report statements A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c 3 Basis of preparation Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and The accounts have been prepared on a Separate Financial Statements going concern basis.
In considering the Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: appropriateness of this assumption, the Board Recognition and Measurement: Eligible have reviewed the Group's projections for the Hedged Items next twelve months and beyond, including cash flow forecasts and regulatory capital Amendment to IAS 39 Reclassification of surpluses.
Financial Assets: Effective Date and Transition It is not anticipated that any of the standards, As a result of this review the Directors have interpretations or amendments above will satisfied themselves that it is appropriate to have a material impact on the Groups financial prepare these financial statements on a going statements in future periods.
The following IFRS have been adopted and The accounting policies set out in note 3 to applied by the Group for the first time in the financial statements have, unless otherwise these financial statements: stated, been applied consistently to all periods IFRS 8 Operating Segments presented in these Group financial statements.
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share The financial statements are prepared on the Transactions historical cost basis, except for the revaluation IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit of a Defined Benefit of financial assets classified as at fair value Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and through profit or loss.
their Interaction Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Group.
Control exists when the Group has Reclassification of Financial Instruments the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the The Group has elected to adopt IFRS 8 financial and operating policies of an entity Operating Segments in advance of its effective so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In date periods beginning on or after 1 January assessing control, potential voting rights that 2009.
IFRS 8 introduces the management are currently exercisable or convertible are approach to segment reporting based on taken into account.
The financial statements information presented to the Groups Board of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated of Directors.
Following adoption of IFRS 8, the financial statements from the date that control Groups reporting segments have not changed commences until the date that control ceases.
significantly but have been sub-divided into a larger number of segments based in line with The preparation of financial statements the increasing materiality of certain operations in conformity with adopted IFRS requires within the Group.
For further information, management to make judgements, estimates refer to note 4 to the financial statements.
and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and IFRIC 11 addresses whether share based payments liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates accounted for as equity-settled in consolidated and associated assumptions are based on financial statements, should be treated as equity historical experience and various other factors or cash settled in the subsidiary.
As it does not that are believed to be reasonable under address treatment in the consolidated financial the circumstances, the results of which form statements, it has no impact on the consolidated the basis of making the judgements about financial results or position of the Group for the carrying values of assets and liabilities that current or previous financial years.
are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and underlying assumptions IFRIC 14 addresses the accounting treatment of are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions a defined benefit pension scheme asset and is to accounting estimates are recognised in the therefore not applicable to the Group in the year in which the estimate is reviewed if this current or previous financial years.
revision affects only that year, or in the year of the revision and future years if the revision Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 7 address affects both current and future years.
The Group has not reclassified any financial assets so that standard is also not applicable.
