Chairmans 4 4 4- - -5 5 5 6-7 8-9 10-15 16-33 34-47 48-53 54-104 Admiral Admiral Admiral Gr Gr Group oup oup 2008 Financial Chief Executives Business review Governance & Board of Directors Financial statement in in in 2008 2008 2008 highlights statement Remuneration & Directors report statements A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c 1 deadlines for exercising voting rights either also expires on the date of the annual general by proxy notice or present in person or by meeting to be held on 28 April 2009 and the proxy in relation to resolutions to be passed at directors will seek to renew this authority for general meeting.
All proxy votes are counted the following year.
and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at Appointments of Directors the annual general meeting and published on The Companys Articles of Association the the company's website after the meeting.
Articles give the Directors power to appoint and replace Directors.
Under the terms of There are no restrictions on the transfer of reference of the Nomination Committee, any ordinary shares in the company other than: appointment must be recommended by the certain restrictions may from time to time Nomination Committee for approval by the be imposed by laws and regulations for Board of Directors.
The Articles also require example, insider trading laws and: directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first annual general meeting pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial following appointment and all directors who Services Authority whereby certain held office at the time of the two preceding employees of the company require the annual general meeting, to submit themselves approval of the company to deal in the for re-election.
The Company has not purchased any of its Articles of Association own shares during the period.
The Articles may only be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees Power of the Directors providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, The directors are responsible for managing purported redundancy or otherwise that the business of the Company and may occurs because of a takeover bid.
exercise all powers of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, to any There are a number of agreements that alter directions given by special resolution and to or terminate upon a change of control of the the Companys Memorandum and Articles.
Company following a takeover bid, such as The Articles for example, contain specific commercial contracts.
None is considered to provisions and restrictions concerning the be significant in terms of their impact on the Companys power to borrow money.
Powers business of the group as a whole except for relating to the issuing of new shares are also the long-term co-insurance agreement in place included in the Articles and such authorities with Great Lakes Resinsurance UK Plc.
Details are renewed by shareholders at the annual relating to this agreement are contained in the general meeting each year.
Annual General Meeting Power to issue shares It is proposed that the next AGM be held at At the last annual general meeting, held on the Andrew Probert Room, Capital Tower, 29 April 2008, authority was given to the Greyfriars Road, Cardiff, CF10 3AZ on Tuesday directors to allot unissued relevant securities 28 April 2009 at 3.00pm, notice of which in the Company up to a maximum of an will be sent to shareholders with the Annual amount equivalent to one third of the shares Report.
This authority expires on the date of the annual general meeting to be held on Directors responsibilities 28 April 2009 and the directors will seek to The Directors are responsible for preparing renew this authority for the following year.
the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company financial statements, in accordance A further special resolution passed at that with applicable law and regulations.
meeting granted authority to the directors to allot equity securities in the Company for cash, Company law requires the Directors to prepare without regard to the pre-emption provisions Group and Parent Company financial statements of the Companies Act 1985.
This authority for each financial year.
