2 f I n A n c I A L s tAt E M E n t s for periods beginning on or after 1 January Notes to the financial 2009 and the Group has elected not to adopt statements the Amendment in advance of the effective date.
Although it will introduce a number of 1.
General information and basis changes to the presentation of the primary financial statements, it will not change the of preparation recognition, measurement or disclosure of transactions or events that are required by General information other IFRS.
Admiral Group plc is a Company incorporated in England and Wales.
Its registered office is IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes is at Capital Tower, Greyfriars Road, Cardiff CF10 effective for periods beginning on or after 3AZ and its shares are listed on the London 1 July 2008.
It is not applicable during the Stock Exchange.
current accounting period, and on adoption will not have a material impact on the Groups The financial statements comprise the financial statements.
results and balances of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Amendment to IFRS 2 Share Based Payment: Group for the year ended 31 December 2008 Vesting Conditions and Cancellations is and comparative figures for the year ended 31 effective for periods beginning on or after 1 December 2007.
The financial statements of January 2009.
On adoption, it will not have the Companys subsidiaries are consolidated in a material impact on the Groups financial the Group financial statements.
controls 100% of the voting share capital of all its subsidiaries.
The Parent Company financial Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs is also statements present information about the effective for periods beginning on or after 1 Company as a separate entity and not about January 2009.
It is not applicable during the its Group.
In accordance with International current accounting period, and on adoption Accounting Standard IAS 24, transactions will not have a material impact on the Groups or balances between Group companies that financial statements.
have been eliminated on consolidation are not reported as related party transactions.
There are a number of standards, amendments to standards and interpretations that were The consolidated financial statements have issued by 31 December 2008 but have either been prepared and approved by the Directors yet to be endorsed by the EU, or were in accordance with International Financial endorsed shortly after the year end.
These are Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by as follows: the European Union EU.
The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company financial Amendments to IAS 32 and IAS 1 Puttable statements in accordance with UK Generally Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising Accepted Accounting Practice GAAP.
on Liquidation Amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 27 Cost of an Adoption of new and revised standards Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled The Group has applied all adopted IFRS and Entity or Associate interpretations endorsed by the EU at 31 December 2008, including all amendments to Improvements to IFRSs 2007 extant standards that are not effective until later Revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations accounting periods, except for those listed below: Revised IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of IFRS Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial IFRIC 12 Service Concession Agreements Statements: A Revised Presentation IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes Real Estate Amendment to IFRS 2 Share Based Payment: Vesting Conditions and Cancellations IFRIC 16 Hedges of Net Investment in A Foreign Operation Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: A Revised Presentation is effective
