Chairmans 4 4- -5 5 6-7 8-9 10-15 16-33 34-47 48-53 54-104 Admiral Admiral Gr Group oup 2008 Financial Chief Executives Business review Governance & Board of Directors Financial statement in in 2008 2008 highlights statement Remuneration & Directors report statements A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c This designation is permitted under IAS 39, as Motor vehicles 4 years the investments in money market funds are Fixtures, fittings and 4 years managed as a group of assets and internal equipment performance evaluation of this group is conducted on a fair value basis.
Computer equipment 2 to 4 years Improvements to short 4 years The Groups deposits with credit institutions leasehold properties are classified as held to maturity investments which is consistent with the intention for Impairment of property, plant and which they were purchased.
equipment In the case of property plant and equipment, Subsequent measurement carrying values are reviewed at each balance Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at sheet date to determine whether there are fair value, with any resultant gain or loss any indications of impairment.
If any such recognised through the income statement.
indications exist, the assets recoverable amount is estimated and compared to the Deposits with fixed maturities, classified as carrying value.
The carrying value is the higher held to maturity investments are measured of the net realisable value and the assets at amortised cost using the effective interest value in use.
Impairment losses are recognised method.
Movements in the amortised cost are through the income statement.
recognised through the income statement, as are any impairment losses.
f Leased assets The rental costs relating to assets held under Receivables are stated at their amortised cost operating leases are charged to the income less impairment using the effective interest statement on a straight-line basis over the life method.
Impairment losses are recognised of the lease.
Leases under the terms of which the Group Impairment of financial assets assumes substantially all of the risks and The Group assesses at each balance sheet rewards of ownership are classed as finance date whether any financial assets or groups leases.
Assets acquired under finance leases are of financial assets are impaired.
Financial included in property, plant and equipment at assets are impaired where there is evidence fair value on acquisition and are depreciated in that one or more events occurring after the the same manner as equivalent owned assets.
initial recognition of the asset, may lead to a Finance lease and hire purchase obligations reduction in the estimated future cashflows are included in creditors, and the finance costs arising from the asset.
are spread over the periods of the agreements based on the net amount outstanding.
Objective evidence of impairment may include default on cashflows due from the asset and g Financial assets investments and reported financial difficulty of the issuer or receivables counterparty.
Initial recognition Financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 Derecognition of financial assets are classified as financial assets at fair value A financial asset is derecognised when the through profit or loss FVTPL, loans and rights to receive cashflows from that asset receivables or held to maturity investments.
have expired or when the Group transfers the The Group has not held any derivative asset and all the attaching substantial risks and instruments in the years ending 31 December rewards relating to the asset, to a third party.
2008 and 31 December 2007. h Cash and cash equivalents At initial recognition assets are recognised Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in at fair value and classified according to the hand, deposits held at call with banks, and purpose for which they were acquired: other short-term deposits with original maturities of three months or less.
The Group's investments in money market liquidity funds are designated as financial i Share capital assets at fair value through profit or loss at Shares are classified as equity when there is inception.
no obligation to transfer cash or other assets.
