Chairmans 4 4- -5 5 6-7 8-9 10-15 16-33 34-47 48-53 54-104 Admiral Admiral Gr Group oup 2008 Financial Chief Executives Business review Governance & Board of Directors Financial statement in in 2008 2008 highlights statement Remuneration & Directors report statements A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c b Foreign currency translation c Insurance contracts and reinsurance assets Functional and presentation currency Premium: Items included in the financial statements The proportion of premium receivable on in-force of each of the Groups entities are measured policies relating to unexpired risks is reported in using the currency of the primary economic insurance contract liabilities and reinsurance assets environment in which the entity operates as the unearned premium provision gross and the functional currency.
The consolidated reinsurers share respectively.
financial statements are presented in thousands of pounds sterling, which is the Claims: Groups presentation currency.
Claims and claims handling expenses are charged as incurred, based on the estimated Transactions and balances direct and indirect costs of settling all Foreign currency transactions are translated liabilities arising on events occurring up to the into the functional currency using the balance sheet date.
exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and The provision for claims outstanding losses resulting from the settlement of such comprises provisions for the estimated cost transactions, and from the translation at year of settling all claims incurred but unpaid at end exchange rates of monetary assets and the balance sheet date, whether reported or liabilities denominated in foreign currencies not.
Anticipated reinsurance recoveries are are recognised in the income statement.
Translation differences on non-monetary Whilst the Directors consider that the items, such as equities held at fair value gross provisions for claims and the related through profit or loss, are reported as part reinsurance recoveries are fairly stated on the of the fair value gain or loss.
Translation basis of the information currently available to differences on non-monetary items are them, the ultimate liability will vary as a result included in the fair value reserve in equity.
of subsequent information and events and may result in significant adjustments to the Translation of financial statements of amounts provided.
foreign operations The financial statements of foreign operations Adjustments to the amounts of claims provisions whose functional currency is not pounds established in prior years are reflected in the sterling are translated into the Group income statement for the period in which the presentation currency sterling as follows: adjustments are made and disclosed separately if material.
The methods used, and the estimates i Assets and liabilities for each balance made, are reviewed regularly.
sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance Provision for unexpired risks is made where sheet: necessary for the estimated amount required ii Income and expenses for each income over and above unearned premiums to meet statement are translated at average future claims and related expenses.
exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the Co-insurance: cumulative effect of the rates prevailing The Group has entered into certain coon the transaction dates, in which case insurance contracts under which insurance income and expenses are translated at the risks are shared on a proportional basis, with date of the transaction : and the co-insurer taking a specific percentage of iii All resulting exchange differences are premium written and being responsible for recognised as a separate component of the same proportion of each claim.
contractual liability is several and not joint, neither the premiums nor claims relating to the co-insurance are included in the On disposal of a foreign operation, the income statement.
Under the terms of these cumulative amount recognised in equity agreements the co-insurers reimburse the relating to that particular operation is Group for the same proportionate share of recognised in the income statement.
the costs of acquiring the business.
