For further detail on objectives, 2.
Critical accounting policies and procedures for managing judgements and estimates insurance risk, refer to note 19 of the financial statements.
Judgements: In applying the Groups accounting policies as Future changes in claims reserves also impact described in note 3, management has primarily profit commission income, as the recognition applied judgement in the classification of the of this income is dependent on the loss Groups contracts with reinsurers as quota ratio booked in the financial statements, and share reinsurance contracts.
A contract is cash receivable is dependent on actuarial required to transfer significant insurance risk projections of ultimate loss ratios.
in order to be classified as such.
Management reviews all terms and conditions of the 3.
Significant accounting contract, and if necessary obtains the opinion policies of an independent expert at the negotiation stage in order to be able to make these a Revenue recognition Premiums, ancillary judgements.
income and profit commission: Premiums relating to insurance contracts are Estimation techniques used in calculation recognised as revenue proportionally over the of claims provisions: period of cover.
Estimation techniques are used in the calculation of the provisions for claims Income earned on the sale of ancillary outstanding, which represents a projection of products and income from policies paid the ultimate cost of settling claims that have by instalments is credited to the income occurred prior to the balance sheet date and statement over the period matching the remain unsettled at the balance sheet date.
Groups obligations to provide services.
Where the Group has no remaining contractual The key area where these techniques are used obligations, the income is recognised relates to the ultimate cost of reported claims.
An allowance is made for A secondary area relates to the emergence of expected cancellations where the customer claims that occurred prior to the balance sheet may be entitled to a refund of ancillary date, but had not been reported at that date.
The estimates of the ultimate cost of reported Under some of the co-insurance and claims are based on the setting of claim reinsurance contracts under which motor provisions on a case-by-case basis, for all but premiums are shared or ceded, profit the simplest of claims.
commission may be earned on a particular year of account, which is usually subject to The sum of these provisions are compared performance criteria such as loss ratios and with projected ultimate costs using a variety expense ratios.
The commission is dependent of different projection techniques including on the ultimate outcome of any year, with incurred and paid chain ladder and an average income being recognised based on loss and cost of claim approach to allow an actuarial expense ratios used in the preparation of the assessment of their likely accuracy.
include allowance for unreported claims.
Revenue from Gladiator and Confused.
com: The most significant sensitivity in the use of Commission from these activities is credited the projection techniques arises from any to income on the sale of the underlying future step change in claims costs, which insurance policy.
would cause future claim cost inflation to deviate from historic trends.
This is most Investment income: likely to arise from a change in the regulatory Investment income from financial assets or judicial regime that leads to an increase comprises interest income and net gains both in awards or legal costs for bodily injury realised and unrealised on financial assets claims that is significantly above or below the classified as fair value through profit and loss historical trend.
or held to maturity deposits.
The claims provisions are subject to independent review by the Groups actuarial
