1 0 2 f I n A n c I A L s tAt E M E n t s Parent Company accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the financial statements: 1.
Basis of preparation The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.
In considering the appropriateness of this assumption, the Board have reviewed the Company's projections for the next twelve months and beyond, including cash flow forecasts and regulatory capital surpluses.
As a result of this review the Directors have satisfied themselves that it is appropriate to prepare these financial statements on a going concern basis.
In these financial statements the following new standards, abstracts and amendments to standards have been adopted for the first time: Abstract 41 - FRS 20 Group and Treasury Share Transactions: Amendment to FRS 17 Retirement Benefits The adoption of these standards has not had a material impact on either the current year or comparative figures as Company does not have any direct employees.
The Company has not adopted in advance amendments to FRS 26 relating to reclassification of financial assets and eligible hedged items which are in effect for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008 and 1 January 2009 respectively.
The Admiral Group plc Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the provisions of Section 226 of, and Schedule 4 to, the Companies Act 1985.
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss account of the Parent Company is not presented.
Under FRS 1 Cash flow statements the Company is exempt from having to present a cash flow statement on the grounds that its cash flows are included in the Groups published consolidated financial statements.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8 not to disclose transactions or balances with its 90% or more owned subsidiary undertakings on the basis that the consolidated accounts are publicly available.
The Parent Company audit fee is not disclosed in these accounts as it is disclosed in the consolidated Group accounts, which precede them at note 10.
Investments Investments in subsidiary undertakings are valued at cost less any provision for impairment in value.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
They are regarded as recoverable to the extent that, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be sufficient taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
