8 f I n A n c I A L s tAt E M E n t s j Employee benefits Current tax related to items recognised Pensions: directly in equity is recognised in equity and The Group contributes to a number of defined not in the income statement.
contribution personal pension plans for its employees.
The contributions payable to these Deferred tax: schemes are charged in the accounting period Deferred tax is provided in full using the to which they relate.
balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences arising between the Employee share schemes: carrying amount of assets and liabilities for The Group operates a number of equity accounting purposes, and the amounts used settled compensation schemes for its for taxation purposes.
It is calculated at the employees.
For schemes commencing 1 January tax rates that are expected to apply in the 2004 and after, the fair value of the employee period when the liability is settled or the asset services received in exchange for the grant of is realised.
free shares under the schemes is recognised as an expense, with a corresponding increase A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the in equity.
extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset The total charge expensed over the vesting can be utilised.
period is determined by reference to the fair value of the free shares granted as determined The principal temporary differences arise at the grant date excluding the impact of from depreciation of property and equipment, non-market vesting conditions.
Non-market share scheme charges and the tax treatment conditions such as profitability targets as of Lloyds profits.
The resulting deferred tax is well as staff attrition rates are included in charged or credited in the income statement, assumptions over the number of free shares to except in relation to share scheme charges vest under the applicable scheme.
where the amount of tax benefit credited to the income statement is limited to an At each balance sheet date, the Group revises equivalent credit calculated on the accounting its assumptions on the number of shares to be charge.
Any excess is recognised directly in granted with the impact of any change in the equity.
l Government grants Refer to note 25 for further details on share Government grants are recognised in the schemes.
financial statements in the period where it becomes reasonably certain that the k Taxation conditions attaching to the grant will be met, Income tax on the profit or loss for the and that the grant will be received.
periods presented comprises current and Grants relating to assets are deducted from deferred tax.
the carrying amount of the asset.
The grant is therefore recognised as income over the life Current tax: of the depreciable asset by way of a reduced Current tax is the expected tax payable on depreciation charge.
the taxable income for the period, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively Grants relating to income are shown as a enacted by the balance sheet date, and deduction in the reported expense.
includes any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
