f I n A n c I A L s tAt E M E n t s Reinsurance assets: is lower.
Impairment losses are recognised Contracts entered into by the Group through the income statement and are not with reinsurers under which the Group is subsequently reversed.
compensated for losses on the insurance contracts issued by the Group are classified The recoverable amount is the greater of the as reinsurance contracts.
A contract is only net realisable value and the value in use of the accounted for as an insurance or reinsurance CGU.
contract where there is significant insurance risk transfer between the insured and the insurer.
The value in use calculations use cash flow projections based on financial budgets The benefits to which the Group is approved by management covering a three entitled under these contracts are held as year period.
Cash flows beyond this period are reinsurance assets.
considered, but not included in the calculation.
The discount rate applied to the cashflow The Group assesses its reinsurance assets for projections in the value in use calculations is impairment on a regular basis, and in detail every 9.2%, based on the Groups weighted average six months.
If there is objective evidence that the cost of capital.
asset is impaired, then the carrying value will be written down to its recoverable amount.
The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations are those regarding growth rates d Intangible assets and expected changes in pricing and expenses Goodwill: incurred during the period.
Management All business combinations are accounted for estimates growth rates and changes in pricing using the purchase method.
Goodwill has based on past practices and expected future been recognised in acquisitions of subsidiaries, changes in the market.
and represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of Deferred acquisition costs: the net identifiable assets acquired.
Acquisition costs comprise all direct and indirect costs arising from the conclusion of The classification and accounting treatment insurance contracts.
Deferred acquisition costs of acquisitions occurring before 1 January represent the proportion of acquisition costs 2004 have not been reconsidered in preparing incurred that corresponds to the unearned the Groups opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 premiums provision at the balance sheet date.
January 2004 due to the exemption available This balance is held as an intangible asset.
It in IFRS 1 First time adoption.
In respect of is amortised over the term of the contract as acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill is premium is earned.
included at the transition date on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount Software: recorded under UK GAAP, which was tested Purchased software is recognised as an for impairment at the transition date.
On intangible asset and amortised over its transition, amortisation of goodwill has ceased expected useful life generally between two as required by IAS 38. and four years.
The carrying value is reviewed every six months for evidence of impairment, Goodwill is stated at cost less any with the value being written down if any accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment may be is allocated to cash generating units CGUs reversed if conditions subsequently improve.
according to business segment and is reviewed annually for impairment.
e Property, plant and equipment and depreciation The Goodwill held on the balance sheet at 31 All property, plant and equipment is stated December 2008 is allocated solely to the UK at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated using the straightline method to write off the cost less Impairment of goodwill: residual values of the assets over their useful The annual impairment review involves economic lives.
These useful economic lives comparing the carrying amount to the are as follows: estimated recoverable amount by allocating the goodwill to CGUs and recognising an impairment loss if the recoverable amount
