136 Shareholder Information Glossary of terms For the purpose of this Report the following definitions apply: 2P reserves Proved plus Probable reserves.
See page 121 LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate 3P reserves Proved plus Probable plus Possible reserves LNG Liquefied Natural Gas $ or US$ US Dollars LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas or UK UK pounds Sterling LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan A$ Australian Dollars LTIS Long Term Incentive Scheme ABI Association of British Insurers m Million ADS American Depositary Share managed volumes Comprises all LNG volumes contracted for purchase AGM Annual General Meeting and having related revenue and other operating AIS Annual Incentive Scheme income recognised in the applicable period bbl Barrel Management Report See page 1 bcf Billion cubic feet mmboe Million barrels of oil equivalent bcma Billion cubic metres per annum mmbtu Million British thermal units BG Group or Group BG Group plc and its subsidiary undertakings, mtpa Million tonnes per annum joint ventures and associated undertakings mmscfd Million standard cubic feet per day BG Energy Holdings BG Energy Holdings Limited, a subsidiary of mmscmd Million standard cubic metres per day Limited or BGEH BG Group plc NGV Natural Gas Vehicle billion or bn One thousand million OTCQX The US over-the-counter market on which boe Barrels of oil equivalent.
BG Group uses a conversion BG Groups ADRs are listed.
See page 125 15 factor of 1 boe equals 6 000 cubic feet of natural gas PJ Petajoules: 10 joules boed Barrels of oil equivalent per day Possible reserves Reserves which analysis of geological and engineering bopd Barrels of oil per day data suggests have a less than 10% chance of recovery CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate PSC Production Sharing Contract CATS The North Sea Central Area Transmission Proved reserves See page 121 System pipeline Probable reserves See page 121 Combined Code The Combined Code on Corporate Governance reserve replacement rate The proved reserve replacement rate is the total issued by the UK Financial Reporting Council net proved reserves change over a stated period Company BG Group plc including purchases and sales excluding production CMI Bureau Continuous Mortality Investigation Bureau divided by the total net production for that period CSG Coal Seam Gas reference conditions Brent Oil Price US$55 bbl: US Henry Hub CSOS Company Share Option Scheme US$7.25 mmbtu: US$ UK exchange rate of Directors Report See page 1 $1.5 1: prepared under International Financial E&P Exploration and Production Reporting Standards: all production includes fuel gas EPS Earnings per Share Risked exploration See page 121 EPV Estimated Present Value ROACE Return on Average Capital Employed EU European Union RPIX Retail Prices Index excluding mortgage interest FAS Financial Accounting Standard, issued by the US repayments Financial Accounting Standards Board scf Standard cubic foot.
1 cubic foot of natural gas Financial Statements The Group and parent company financial statements at a standard ambient temperature and pressure for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise SEC The United States Securities and Exchange Commission the consolidated income statement, the balance SIP Share Incentive Plan sheets, the cash flow statements, the consolidated T&D Transmission and Distribution statement of recognised income and expense, and tcf Trillion cubic feet the related notes TRCF Total Recordable Case Frequency GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles TSR Total Shareholder Return GASA Gas Argentino S. A.
Unit lifting costs Unit lifting costs per boe is calculated by excluding 9 GW Gigawatt: 10 watts per boe royalty, tariff and insurance costs from Unit operating HSSE Health, Safety, Security and the Environment costs expenditure as defined below IAS International Accounting Standard issued by the IASB Unit operating costs Unit operating expenditure per boe is calculated IASB International Accounting Standards Board expenditure per boe by dividing Production and Other operating costs IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations royalties on page 120 by the net production for the Committee period.
This measure does not include the impact of IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards issued depreciation and amortisation costs and exploration by the IASB and endorsed by the European Union costs as they are not considered to be costs associated IOCs International Oil Companies with the operation of producing assets Japan Crude Cocktail Average price of customs-cleared crude oil imports Un-booked resources See page 121 or JCC into Japan WDDM West Delta Deep Marine LEGAL NOTICE Certain statements included in this Annual Report and Accounts contain forward-looking information concerning the Groups strategy, operations, financial performance or condition, outlook, growth opportunities or circumstances in the countries, sectors or markets in which the Group operates.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve uncertainty because they depend on future circumstances, and relate to events, not all of which are within the Companys control or can be predicted by the Company.
Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct.
Actual results could differ materially from those set out in the forward-looking statements.
For a detailed analysis of the factors that may affect our business, financial performance or results of operations, we urge you to look at the Principal Risks and Uncertainties included in this Annual Report and Accounts.
No part of these results constitutes, or shall be taken to constitute, an invitation or inducement to invest in BG Group plc or any other entity, and must not be relied upon in any way in connection with any investment decision.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
BG Group is subject to the regulatory requirements of the Financial Services Authority of the United Kingdom.
EXPLANATORY NOTE FOR US INVESTORS RELATING TO GAS AND OIL RESERVES AND RESOURCES BG Group continues voluntarily to use the SEC definition of proved reserves to report proved gas and oil reserves in this Annual Report and Accounts.
For further details of BG Groups proved reserves as at 31 December 2008, and related supplemental gas and oil information, see Supplementary information gas and oil, on page 115.
This Report also contains additional information about other BG Group gas and oil reserves and resources that would not be permitted in SEC filings.
For an explanation of terms used in connection with such additional reserves and resources information, refer to page 121. www.
com London Street B3031 A327 A33 A4074 a A327 L n e n Kings Road l i M4 K Vastern Road Station Hill e B479 Hartland Road Oxford Road A329 M4 s Our vision Directions to the AGM Natural gas is our business.
We are a rapidly growing company, with expertise throughout the gas chain.
The 2009 AGM will be held at the Royal Berkshire We are a leading natural gas company Conference Centre, Madejski READING Stadium, Reading RG2 0FL at READING in the global energy market operating CENTRAL TOWN CENTRE STATION 2.00 pm on Monday 18 May 2009.
The map shows the responsibly and delivering value to location of the conference MUSEUM TOWN HALL centre and details of how to our shareholders.
reach it are set out below.
ORACLE SHOPPING CENTRE By Train We do this by connecting competitively There will be a free bus service between Reading Central Station bus stop SI priced resources to high-value markets.
and the Madejski Stadium journey time approximately 15 minutes.
ROYAL READING BERKSHIRE UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL Alternatively taxis are available from the rank outside the main entrance of Reading Central Station journey time approximately 10-15 minutes.
ROYAL By Car BERKSHIRE From the M4 Junction 11, take the A33 to Reading and follow the signs CONFERENCE Operational highlights to the Madejski Stadium.
From Reading Town Centre, take the A33 and follow signs to the Madejski Stadium and M4.
MADEJSKI STADIUM Free parking is available at the conference centre.
The telephone number of the conference centre is 0118 968 1333.
M4 THE WEST & BRISTOL M4 SLOUGH M25 & LONDON Exploration and Production Exploration and Production Liquefied Natural Gas Success in the Santos Basin Acquisition of QGC Continued LNG success J.
11 Offshore Brazil, the exploration success In 2008, BG Group acquired Queensland BG Groups LNG business continued its success Map not to scale and scale of resources discovered have been Gas Company Limited QGC, a leading coal in 2008, with total operating profit increasing outstanding.
BG Group and partners have seam gas player in Australia.
Since 2005, BG Group has supplied now achieved a sequence of five discoveries enhances BG Groups LNG strategy in a LNG to 18 of the 19 importing countries, with BG Group was formed following the BG Group is a global natural gas in the Santos Basin pre-salt play, with Tupi, stable and attractive investment setting.
first-time supplies to Argentina, Brazil, China, BG Group is not British Gas demergers of British Gas and BG plc.
business we find, develop and Iara, Guar, Carioca and Parati.
BG Group The Groups aim is to grow production to Greece, Portugal and Turkey in 2008 09.
The BG Group is not British Gas, the UK supplier of Two other companies operate as a result connect gas to markets.
BG Group is currently estimates its net share of reserves 225 000 boed by 2015, for both domestic Group has further developed its Pacific Basin gas, electricity and home services.
The British Gas of the demergers: Centrica plc and and resources from these discoveries at over and LNG markets, adding around 7.4 mtpa of LNG strategy with the QGC acquisition and one of the UKs leading businesses business in the UK is owned and operated by three billion boe.
BG Group-operated Pacific Basin LNG supply.
an agreement to supply LNG to Singapore.
More information on Centrica plc.
Any British Gas service or shareholder and a leader in the field of natural enquiries must be directed to Centrica plc, not the demerger of British Gas, including gas exploration and production.
BG Group cannot answer any questions contact information for Centrica and regarding the British Gas business in the UK at National Grid can be found at: the BG Group Annual General Meeting.
com demerger For more information visit www.
com investors BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 o Bennet Road R A4155 A4 Acre Road r e S Imperial Way t t M s n i r Kings Road Queens Road e e t B3345 Basingstoke Road d a o R e k A33 o t A33 s g n i s a B A33 BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 A world leader in natural gas BG Group plc This Annual Report and Accounts is printed 4 100 Thames Valley Park Drive on think bright.
This paper is produced from Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT 100% ECF Elemental Chlorine Free pulp that www.
It has FSC Forest Stewardship Council certification and has been manufactured Annual Report and Registered in England & Wales No.
3690065 within a mill which is registered under the British and international quality standard of Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc.
BS EN ISO 9001-2000 and the environmental Accounts 2008 Printed by St Ives Westerham Press.
