DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION 135 Presentation of non-GAAP measures BG Group gives certain additional information in a non-statutory Realised gains and losses relating to the instruments referred to format in order to provide readers with an increased insight into the above are included in Business Performance.
This presentation underlying performance of the business.
The measures BG Group best reflects the underlying performance of the business since it uses are explained below.
distinguishes between the temporary timing differences associated with re-measurements under IAS 39 rules and actual realised gains Business Performance and losses.
Business Performance excludes disposals, certain re-measurements BG Group has also separately identified profits and losses associated and impairments see below, and is presented as exclusion of these with the disposal of non-current assets and impairments of nonitems provides readers with a clear and consistent presentation of the current assets as they require separate disclosure in order to underlying operating performance of the Groups ongoing business.
provide a clearer understanding of the results for the period.
For a BG Group uses commodity instruments to manage price exposures reconciliation between the overall results and Business Performance associated with its marketing and optimisation activity in the UK and details of disposals, re-measurements and impairments, see and USA.
This activity enables the Group to take advantage of note 2, page 75. commodity price movements.
It is considered more appropriate to include both unrealised and realised gains and losses arising from Joint ventures and associates the mark-to-market of derivatives associated with this activity in Under IFRS, the results from jointly controlled entities joint Business Performance.
ventures and associates, accounted for under the equity method, are required to be presented net of finance costs and tax on the face Disposals, certain re-measurements and impairments of the income statement.
Given the relevance of these businesses BG Groups commercial arrangements for marketing gas include the within BG Group, the results of joint ventures and associates are use of long-term gas sales contracts.
Whilst the activity surrounding presented before interest and tax, and after tax.
This approach these contracts involves the physical delivery of gas, certain UK provides additional information on the source of BG Groups gas sales contracts are classified as derivatives under the rules of operating profits.
For a reconciliation between operating profit International Accounting Standard IAS 39, Financial Instruments: and earnings including and excluding the results of joint ventures Recognition and Measurement, issued by the IASB and are required and associates, see note 2, page 75. to be measured at fair value at the balance sheet date.
Unrealised gains and losses on these contracts reflect the comparison between Exchange rates and prices current market gas prices and the actual prices to be realised under BG Group also discloses certain information, as indicated, at the gas sales contract and are disclosed separately as disposals, constant US$ UK exchange rates and upstream prices.
presentation of results in this manner is intended to provide additional information to explain further the underlying trends BG Group also uses commodity instruments to manage certain in the business.
The disclosure re-calculates the current year profit price exposures in respect of optimising the timing and location on the basis that the US$ UK exchange rate and the upstream of its physical gas and LNG commitments.
These instruments are commodity prices were the same as in the previous year so also required to be measured at fair value at the balance sheet providing a comparable base in respect of these two factors.
However, IAS 39 does not allow the matching of these fair values to the economically hedged value of the related Net borrowings funds commodity, resulting in unrealised movements in fair value BG Group provides an analysis of the amounts included within being recorded in the income statement.
These movements in net borrowings funds as this is an important liquidity measure fair value are disclosed separately as disposals, re-measurements for the Group.
Return on average capital employed ROACE represents profit before BG Group also uses financial instruments, including derivatives, tax excluding disposals, re-measurements and impairments plus to manage foreign exchange and interest rate exposure.
These net interest payable on net borrowings, as a percentage of average instruments are required to be recognised at fair value or amortised capital employed.
cost on the balance sheet in accordance with IAS 39.
Most of these instruments have been designated either as hedges of foreign exchange movements associated with the Groups net investments in foreign operations, or as hedges of interest rate risk.
Where these instruments cannot be designated as hedges under IAS 39, unrealised movements in fair value are recorded in the income statement and disclosed separately as disposals, re-measurements and impairments.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
