DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION 127 Notice of tenth Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc The tenth Annual General Meeting AGM or Meeting of Resolution 9 BG Group plc the Company will be held in the Princess Suite To re-elect Jrgen Dormann as a Director of the Company.
of the Royal Berkshire Conference Centre, Madejski Stadium, Reading, Berkshire RG2 0FL on Monday, 18 May 2009 at 2.00 pm Resolution 10 for the transaction of the business set out below.
To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general This Notice contains the resolutions to be voted on at the meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
Resolutions 1 to 14 below are ordinary resolutions that will be passed if more than 50% of the votes cast are in favour of the resolutions.
Resolutions 15 to 19 are special resolutions that Resolution 11 will be passed if not less than 75% of the votes cast are in favour of To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the remuneration the resolutions.
A poll will be called on each of the resolutions set of the Auditors.
Further details are set out in the explanatory notes.
Resolution 12 ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS That, in accordance with sections 366 and 367 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, the Company and all companies which are Resolution 1 subsidiaries of the Company during the period when this resolution To receive the Accounts and Reports of the Directors and the has effect be and are hereby authorised to: Auditors for the year ended 31 December 2008. a make political donations to political parties or independent election candidates up to a total aggregate amount of 15 000: Resolution 2 b make political donations to political organisations other than To approve the Remuneration report as set out on pages 54 to 63 political parties up to a total aggregate amount of 15 000: and of the BG Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008. c incur political expenditure up to a total aggregate amount of 20 000: Resolution 3 during the period beginning with the date of the passing of this To declare a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December Resolution and ending at the conclusion of the AGM of the 2008 of 6.55 pence per ordinary share payable on 22 May 2009 to Company in 2010, provided that, in any event, the total aggregate holders of ordinary shares on the register of shareholders of the amount of all political donations and political expenditure incurred Company at the close of business on 14 April 2009. by the Company and its subsidiaries in such period shall not exceed 50 000.
Resolution 4 To elect Sir David Manning as a Director of the Company.
For the purpose of this Resolution, political donations, political organisations, political parties and political expenditure have the meanings given to them in sections 363 to 365 of the 2006 Act.
Resolution 5 To elect Martin Houston as a Director of the Company.
Resolution 13 That the authorised share capital of the Company be and is hereby Resolution 6 increased from 500 000 001 to 600 000 001 by the creation of To re-elect Sir Robert Wilson as a Director of the Company.
an additional 1 000 000 000 ordinary shares of 10p each.
Resolution 7 To re-elect Frank Chapman as a Director of the Company.
Resolution 8 To re-elect Ashley Almanza as a Director of the Company.
If you are in any doubt about its content, you should consult an appropriate independent adviser.
If you have sold or transferred all of your shares in BG Group plc, please send this document and all accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through or to whom the sale or transfer was effected so that they can be passed on to the person who now owns the shares.
2 The Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company and the Articles of Association amended to reflect the changes proposed by resolutions 17 and 18 are available for inspection during normal business hours at the registered office of the Company and at the offices of Herbert Smith LLP, Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2HS on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excluded and will also be available for inspection at the place of the AGM from 1.00 pm on the day of the Meeting until its conclusion.
4.4. of the Combined Code, copies of the service contracts and letters of appointment of all non-executive Directors of the Company are available for inspection during normal business hours at the registered office of the Company and at the offices of Herbert Smith LLP, Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2HS on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excluded and will also be available for inspection at the place of the AGM from 1.00 pm on the day of the Meeting until its conclusion.
4 The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those holders of ordinary shares registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6.00 pm on 16 May 2009 or, if the Meeting is adjourned, at 6.00 pm on the date which is two days prior to the adjourned meeting or their duly appointed proxies shall be entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting or the adjourned meeting in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after 6.00 pm on 16 May 2009 or, if the Meeting is adjourned, at 6.00 pm on the date which is two days prior to the adjourned meeting shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting or the adjourned meeting.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 128 Shareholder Information Notice of tenth Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc continued b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a Resolution 14 above to any person or persons of equity securities up to an That the Directors be and they are hereby generally and aggregate nominal amount of 16 789 033, unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act to exercise all the and shall expire upon the expiry of the general authority conferred powers of the Company to allot: by Resolution 14 above, save that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such power which a relevant securities as defined in section 80 2 of the 1985 Act would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such up to an aggregate nominal amount of 116 481 140: and expiry and the Directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities b relevant securities comprising equity securities within the pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred meaning of section 94 of the 1985 Act up to a further aggregate hereby had not expired.
nominal amount of 111 926 886 provided that they are offered by way of a rights issue to holders of ordinary shares on the Resolution 16 register of members at such record dates as the Directors may That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to determine where the equity securities respectively attributable make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of to the interests of the ordinary shareholders are proportionate the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 10 pence each of the as nearly as may be practicable to the respective numbers of Company ordinary shares provided that: ordinary shares held or deemed to be held by them on any such a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to record dates and to other holders of equity securities entitled be acquired is 335 780 660: to participate therein, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient b the minimum price that may be paid for any such ordinary share to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements or legal or is 10 pence, the nominal value of that share: practical problems arising under the laws of any overseas territory c the maximum price that may be paid for any such ordinary share or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts or quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock any other matter, Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the preceding the day on which the share is contracted to be AGM of the Company in 2010 save that the Company shall be purchased: and entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors shall be entitled to the AGM of the Company in 2010 but a contract for purchase may allot relevant securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement be made before such expiry that will or may be executed wholly or as if this authority had not expired: and all unexercised authorities partly thereafter, and a purchase of ordinary shares may be made previously granted to the Directors to allot relevant securities be in pursuance of any such contract.
Resolution 17 SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS That the existing Articles of Association of the Company be amended by: a deleting Article 3 in its entirety and replacing it with the following: Resolution 15 That the Directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant 3.
Form of the Companys share capital to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 of the 1985 Act The Companys share capital at the date when these Articles were for cash either pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 14 last amended was 600 000 001, made up of 6 000 000 010 above or by way of a sale of treasury shares as if section 89 1 of the Ordinary Shares: and 1985 Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited to: b deleting Article 12 in its entirety: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer with effect from the conclusion of the AGM.
of securities but in the case of the authority granted under paragraph b of Resolution 14 by way of a rights issue only Resolution 18 in favour of the holders of ordinary shares on the register of That with effect from 00.01 am on 1 October 2009: members at such record dates as the Directors may determine a the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by and other persons entitled to participate therein where the equity deleting all the provisions of the Companys Memorandum securities respectively attributable to the interests of the ordinary of Association which, by virtue of section 28 of the Companies shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be practicable Act 2006, are to be treated as provisions of the Companys to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held or deemed to Articles of Association: and be held by them on any such record dates, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem b the Articles of Association contained in the document produced necessary or expedient to deal with treasury shares, fractional to the Meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purposes of entitlements or legal or practical problems arising under the laws identification be adopted and approved as the new Articles of of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented exclusion of, the Articles of Association of the Company in effect by depositary receipts or any other matter: and immediately prior to that time.
com DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION 129 concluded that Sir David Manning is independent in character Resolution 19 and judgment, and that both Sir David and Martin Houston make That a General Meeting, other than an Annual General Meeting, effective and valuable contributions to the Board and demonstrate may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Accordingly, the Board unanimously By order of the Board Registered Office: recommends their election.
Keith Hubber 100 Thames Valley Park Drive Reading Company Secretary Re-election of Directors Resolutions 6 to 9 Berkshire RG6 1PT Directors are normally subject to re-election by shareholders every three years.
Biographical details of the Directors proposed for Registered in England & Wales 11 March 2009 re-election, namely Sir Robert Wilson, Frank Chapman, Ashley No.
3690065 Almanza and Jrgen Dormann are shown on pages 40 and 41.
In reviewing the recommendations of the Nominations Committee A shareholder entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a concerning these re-elections, the Board has concluded that Jrgen proxy or proxies to attend, vote and speak instead of him her.
A Dormann is independent in character and judgment.
In addition proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
Further details and, following the annual evaluation exercise conducted during the on how to appoint a proxy are given on page 132. year, the Board considers that each of the Directors proposed for re-election continues to make an effective and valuable contribution EXPLANATORY NOTES and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Accordingly, the Board Voting at the Meeting will be by poll rather than by show of hands.
This is a more transparent method of voting as member votes are to be counted according to the number of shares held.
The Chairman Re-appointment and remuneration of Auditors will invite each shareholder and proxy present at the Meeting to Resolutions 10 and 11 complete a poll card indicating how they wish to cast their votes in The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general respect of each resolution.
In addition, the Chairman will cast the meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company, to votes for which he has been appointed as proxy.
Poll cards will be hold office until the next such meeting.
Following the collected at the end of the Meeting.
Once the results have been recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Directors propose verified by the Companys Registrar, they will be notified to the UK that  LLP be re-appointed as Auditors of Listing Authority and published on the Companys website.
Resolution 11 proposes that the Audit Committee be authorised to determine the level of the Auditors remuneration.
Annual Report and Accounts Resolution 1 The Directors are required to lay before the Meeting the Accounts Political donations Resolution 12 of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2008, the Resolution 12 is designed to deal with rules on political donations Directors Report, the Remuneration report and the Auditors report and expenditure contained in Part 14 of the 2006 Act sections 362 on the accounts and the auditable part of the Remuneration report.
Under section 378 of the 2006 Act, a company may not make donations to an EU political party, or other EU political organisation, Remuneration report Resolution 2 or to an independent election candidate in the EU of more than UK listed companies must put an ordinary resolution to 5 000 in total, or incur any EU political expenditure, without first shareholders at the AGM seeking approval of the Remuneration obtaining shareholder approval.
The vote is advisory in nature, in that payments made or promised to Directors will not have to be repaid, reduced or It is the Companys policy not to make contributions to political withheld in the event that the Resolution is not passed.
There is no intention to change that policy.
What constitutes a political donation, a political party, a political organisation or political expenditure under the 2006 Act is not Declaration of a dividend Resolution 3 clear, as the legislation is capable of wide interpretation and may A final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 of 6.55 pence have the effect of covering a number of normal business activities per ordinary share is recommended by the Directors.
A final dividend that would not be thought to be political donations in the usual can be paid only after it has been declared by the shareholders at sense.
To avoid any possibility of inadvertently contravening the a general meeting.
It is proposed that shareholders declare this 2006 Act, the Board considers that it would be prudent to follow the dividend by passing Resolution 3.
If so declared, the final dividend procedure specified in the 2006 Act to obtain shareholder approval will be paid on 22 May 2009 to ordinary shareholders who were on for the Company and its subsidiaries to make political donations the register of the Company at the close of business on 14 April 2009. or incur political expenditure in the forthcoming year until the American Depositary Share ADS holders will be entitled to receive conclusion of the AGM of the Company in 2010.
This authority will the US Dollar equivalent of 0.3275 per ADS on 1 June 2009.
An not be used to make any political donations as that expression interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 of would normally be understood.
4.68 pence per ordinary share was paid on 12 September 2008.
Increase in authorised share capital Resolution 13 Election of Directors Resolutions 4 and 5 Resolution 13 proposes that the authorised share capital of the The Companys Articles of Association require any Director newly Company be increased from 500 000 001 to 600 000 001, appointed by the Board to retire at the first AGM following their representing an increase of approximately 19.9%.
Sir David Manning was appointed to the Board as in connection with Resolution 17 below, it is proposed that the a non-executive Director on 1 July 2008 and Martin Houston was Directors be given authority to allot shares up to a nominal appointed to the Board as an Executive Director on 3 February 2009. amount of 228 408 026, in line with the revised guidelines of Biographical details of Sir David Manning and Martin Houston are the Association of British Insurers ABI on the number of shares given on pages 40 and 41.
In reviewing the recommendations of the directors be authorised to allot.
It is therefore proposed that the Nominations Committee concerning these elections, the Board Companys authorised share capital be increased so that the BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 130 Shareholder Information Notice of tenth Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc continued Companys unissued share capital is then in line with the new b up to a maximum nominal value of 16 789 033, representing authority to allot.
approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 3 March 2009 the latest practicable date prior Authority to allot shares Resolution 14 to publication of this Notice otherwise than in connection with an offer to existing shareholders.
At the last AGM of the Company held on 14 May 2008, the Directors were given authority to allot ordinary shares in the capital of the The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 117 078 772 representing approximately 1 3 of the Companys issued ordinary The Directors confirm their intention to follow the provisions of share capital excluding treasury shares in issue at 4 March 2008, the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding together with shares outstanding under BG Groups option schemes.
cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling three year period.
This authority expires at the end of this years AGM.
These principles provide that companies should not issue for cash shares representing in excess of 7.5% of the Companys issued On 31 December 2008, the ABI revised its guidelines on directors share capital in any rolling three year period, other than to existing authority to allot shares.
The ABIs guidelines previously stated shareholders, without prior consultation with shareholders.
that directors general authority to allot shares should be limited to an amount equal to 1 3 of the Companys issued share capital Authority to make market purchases of own ordinary shares excluding treasury shares together with the number of shares Resolution 16 required to allot shares in respect of deferred consideration or In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous for the Company options.
The ABIs new guidelines state that ABI members will to purchase its own ordinary shares and Resolution 16 seeks continue to permit, and treat as routine, a request for authorisation authority from shareholders to do so.
The Resolution specifies to allot new shares in an amount of up to 1 3 of the existing issued the maximum number of shares that may be acquired 10% of share capital of the Company together with the number of shares the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury required to allot shares in respect of deferred consideration or shares and the maximum and minimum prices at which they options.
The new guidelines also state that the ABI will now regard may be bought.
as routine requests to authorise the allotment of a further 1 3 of the Companys issued share capital provided that such additional Any shares purchased in this way will, unless the Directors determine headroom is only applied to fully pre-emptive rights issues and that that they are to be held as treasury shares, be cancelled and the the authorisation is valid for one year only.
The Board has resolved number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly.
Shares held that the Company should follow the ABIs revised guidelines in order in treasury will not automatically be cancelled and will not be taken to comply with what the ABI now regards as routine.
into account in future calculations of earnings per share unless they are subsequently resold or transferred out of treasury.
Accordingly, the Board considers it appropriate that the Directors be granted authority to allot ordinary shares in the capital of the Shares are held in treasury in accordance with section 162 A of the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 228 408 026 1985 Act and may be used to satisfy awards under the Companys representing approximately 2 3 of the Companys issued ordinary share schemes pursuant to section 162 D of the 1985 Act.
No share capital excluding treasury shares together with the number dividends are paid on and no voting rights attach to treasury shares.
of shares required to satisfy the options outstanding under the Any treasury shares sold by the Company will count towards the Companys employee share plans as at 3 March 2009 the latest number of shares that, if Resolution 15 is passed, may be issued practicable date prior to publication of this Notice, of which without offering them first to existing shareholders.
1 119 268 860 shares representing approximately 1 3 of the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares As the existing shareholder approval to purchase shares expires at can only be allotted pursuant to a fully pre-emptive rights issue.
the 2009 AGM, purchases after that date are subject to renewed The power will last until the conclusion of the next AGM in 2010. shareholder approval at the AGM.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to purchase the Companys The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority ordinary shares.
The Directors will use the authority to purchase other than pursuant to employee share plans.
shares only after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing As at the date of this Notice, the Company is holding 225 289 873 levels and the overall financial position of the Company.
The shares in treasury representing 6.71% of the Companys issued Directors will only purchase such shares after taking into account ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares.
the effects on earnings per share and the benefit for shareholders.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights Resolution 15 At 3 March 2009, the total number of options to subscribe for Resolution 15 will empower the Directors to allot ordinary shares in ordinary shares outstanding was 45 542 536.
This represents 1.36% the capital of the Company, pursuant to the authority granted under of the issued share capital at that date excluding treasury shares.
Resolution 14 above, for cash, and to sell shares held in treasury, without If the Company bought back the maximum number of shares complying with the pre-emption rights in the 1985 Act in certain permitted pursuant to the existing authority as well as the authority circumstances.
In line with the ABIs new guidelines described above, being sought by the passing of this Resolution and cancelled them, they will be able to allot: then the total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding at that date would represent 1.69% of the issued share a in connection with an open offer or other offer to existing capital excluding treasury shares as reduced following those shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings up to repurchases.
At 3 March 2009, there were no warrants to subscribe 1 119 268 860 shares representing 1 3 of the Companys issued for ordinary shares outstanding.
ordinary share capital or in the case of a fully pre-emptive rights issue only up to 2 238 537 720 shares representing 2 3 of the Companys issued ordinary share capital : and www.
com DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION 131 of Association, the Directors recommend that shareholders pass a Amendment of existing Articles of Association Resolution 17 resolution to adopt the New Articles rather than to pass resolutions The Company proposes to amend its existing Articles of Association detailing each individual amendment.
to delete Article 12 in its entirety and to reflect the increase in the authorised share capital from 500 000 001 to 600 000 001 The references to article numbers in the below paragraphs are to proposed by Resolution 13.
These amendments are necessary for provisions of the New Articles.
the Company to comply with the ABIs new guidelines on directors general authority to allot shares in the period between the 1.
The Companys objects conclusion of the AGM and 1 October 2009 on which date, subject The 2006 Act significantly reduces the significance of a companys to the passing of Resolution 17, the Company will adopt new Articles memorandum.
The provisions governing the operations of the of Association.
The Directors consider that it is no longer appropriate Company are currently set out in both its Memorandum of for their general authority to allot shares to be governed by a Association and its Articles of Association.
Under the 2006 Act, the combination of Article 12 of the existing Articles of Association and a Memorandum will no longer contain an objects clause and will short form resolution proposed at each AGM, as has previously been simply record the names of the subscribers and the number of the case.
Accordingly, the Directors consider that Article 12 should be shares which each subscriber agreed to take in the Company.
deleted and the authority sought at each AGM by way of resolutions Under section 28 of the 2006 Act, the objects clause and all other substantially in the same form as Resolutions 14 and 15.
This change provisions in the Memorandum will be treated as part of the will enable the Company to follow the ABIs new guidelines this year Articles with effect from 1 October 2009.
Unless the Articles provide and, in the future, any other guidelines on such authorities without otherwise, the Companys objects will be unrestricted.
By adopting the need to amend the Companys Articles of Association.
The the New Articles which do not contain the objects clause, the increase in the Companys authorised share capital is necessary Company will remove the objects clause, which would otherwise be should the Company choose to allot shares up to a further 1 3 of deemed to form part of its Articles under section 28.
As the objects the Companys issued share capital pursuant to Resolution 14 b, clause in the Companys existing Memorandum of Association is in the period from the conclusion of the AGM until 1 October 2009, intentionally very widely drafted and is designed to ensure that no in line with the ABIs new guidelines.
restrictions are imposed on the Companys operations, the removal of the objects clause in this way is not intended nor expected to Adoption of new Articles of Association Resolution 18 have any practical impact on the Companys powers or operations.
The 2006 Act, which is replacing the 1985 Act, is being implemented in stages and will be fully in force on 1 October 2009.
Articles which duplicate statutory provisions Resolution 18, the Company is proposing to adopt new Articles of Provisions in the Companys existing Articles of Association which Association the New Articles which will reflect the changes in replicate provisions which were contained in the 1985 Act but are company law brought about by the provisions of the 2006 Act now contained in the 2006 Act are either removed in the New which are already in effect or which are to come into effect on Articles or amended to bring them into line with the 2006 Act.
1 October 2009, as well as some minor technical or clarifying changes.
As well as those changes, the New Articles include some 3.
Limited liability Article 3 other modernising and clarificatory amendments, including, where appropriate, tracking the wording of the new model form articles Under the 2006 Act, the memorandum of association will no longer for public companies the model form articles published by the contain a clause stating that the liability of the members of a Department for Business Enterprise and Regulatory Reform, which company is limited.
For existing companies, this statement will are replacing the Table A articles under the 1985 Act on which many automatically be treated as having moved into the articles on of the Companys current Articles are based.
An explicit statement of the members limited in the New Articles proposed to be adopted at the 2009 AGM relate liability is therefore included in the New Articles.
to the Companys constitution and share capital.
Authorised share capital and unissued shares Under the 2006 Act, all provisions of the Companys Memorandum, The 2006 Act abolishes the concept of authorised share capital and but most significantly the objects clause, will be deemed to form therefore, the memorandum of association will no longer contain part of the Companys Articles from 1 October 2009.
It is possible a statement of a companys authorised share capital.
For existing for the objects clause to be removed or amended by amending the companies, this statement will be deemed to be a provision of their Articles by special resolution.
It is not necessary under the 2006 Act articles of association setting out the maximum number of shares for a company to set out its objects.
The 2006 Act provides that, that may be allotted.
unless the articles state otherwise, a companys objects will be unrestricted.
One of the other key provisions of the Memorandum References to authorised share capital and to unissued shares have which will be deemed to form part of the Companys Articles from been removed from the New Articles and therefore the adoption of 1 October 2009 is the restriction created by the existing authorised the New Articles by the Company will have the effect of removing share capital statement.
The 2006 Act removes the requirement for the maximum number of shares that may be allotted.
Directors will a company to place limits on its authorised share capital.
still need to obtain the usual shareholders authorisation in order to allot shares.
By adopting the New Articles which do not contain the objects clause or the authorised share capital statement, the Company will 5.
Redeemable shares Article 10 remove these provisions from its Articles, which would otherwise be deemed to form part of the Companys Articles under section 28 Under the 2006 Act, articles of association need not include the of the 2006 Act.
A more detailed explanation of these and other terms on which redeemable shares may be redeemed.
The directors amendments is set out below.
This summary has been prepared to may determine the terms, conditions and manner of redemption of assist shareholders in understanding the rationale for and redeemable shares provided they are authorised to do so by the substance of the proposed amendments.
Although the New Articles articles.
The New Articles contain such authorisation.
The Company are in many respects largely unchanged from the current Articles currently has no plans to issue redeemable shares but if it did so the BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 132 Shareholder Information Notice of tenth Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc continued Directors would need shareholders authority to issue new shares period back to 14 days other than for AGMs provided that two in the usual way.
The first condition is that a company offers facilities for shareholders to vote by electronic means.
It is not yet clear what this will require and the details will be set out in the 6.
Transfer of shares Article 41 final regulations when published by the Government.
The second Under the 2006 Act, a company must either register a transfer or condition is that there is an annual resolution of shareholders give the transferee notice of, and reasons for, its refusal to register a approving the reduction in the minimum notice period from 21 days transfer.
Any registration of a transfer or notice of refusal must be to 14 days.
The Board is therefore proposing Resolution 18 as a made or given as soon as practicable and in any event within two special resolution to approve 14 days as the minimum period of months from the date that the transfer is lodged with a company.
notice for all general meetings of the Company other than AGMs.
The New Articles reflect these requirements.
The Company cannot The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when in any event refuse to transfer a fully paid share except in very it is intended that the approval be renewed.
limited circumstances such as a transfer to more than four persons.
The provision which gave the ability to suspend the registration of Recommendation transfers of shares for periods not exceeding 30 days in any one year The Board considers the above Resolutions will promote the success has been removed from the New Articles as there is no ability under of the Company and are in the best interests of the Company and its the 2006 Act to close the register.
The Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of all the above Resolutions as they intend to 7.
Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and sub-divide do so themselves in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
shares, and reduce share capital Articles 6, 8 and 9 Appointing a proxy At present, a company requires specific authorisations in its articles Shareholders are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise all of association to purchase its own shares, to consolidate or subor any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at the AGM, provided divide its shares and to reduce its share capital.
Under the 2006 Act, that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a public companies do not require specific authorisations in their different share or shares.
A proxy does not need to be a shareholder articles of association to undertake these actions: but shareholder of the Company but must attend the AGM to represent the relevant authority will still be required.
Amendments have been made to the shareholder.
A proxy form is enclosed with this Notice and New Articles to reflect these changes.
instructions for its use are shown on the form.
Appointing a proxy does not preclude a shareholder from attending the AGM and 8.
Provisions for employees on cessation or transfer of business voting in person.
Proxy forms must be submitted by 2.00 pm on Article 111A 16 May 2009 or, if the Meeting is adjourned, by not less than 48 The 2006 Act provides that the powers of the directors to make hours before the time of the adjourned meeting to Equiniti, Aspect provisions for a person employed or formerly employed by a House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6UT.
Details of company or any of its subsidiaries in connection with the cessation how to appoint your proxy electronically are given below.
or transfer of the whole or part of the undertaking of the company or that subsidiary may only be exercised by the directors if they are Electronic proxy voting so authorised by the companys articles or by the company in Shareholders may register the appointment of a proxy or proxies general meeting.
Article 111A of the New Articles provides that the 5 for the AGM electronically at www.
co. uk, a website Directors may exercise this power.
operated by the Companys Registrar, Equiniti.
Shareholders are advised to read the terms and conditions, shown on the website, 9.
Recording and retention of minutes Article 108 relating to the use of this facility before appointing a proxy.
Any Article 108 of the New Articles contains a new provision to the effect electronic communication sent by a shareholder that is found that minutes must be retained for at least ten years, reflecting the to contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
Electronic relevant provision of the 2006 Act.
No minimum retention time communication facilities are available to all shareholders and was previously specified.
those who use them will not be disadvantaged in any way.
Notice of general meetings other than Annual General Meetings Corporate representatives Resolution 19 Corporate shareholders are encouraged to appoint a proxy or Resolution 19 is a resolution to allow the Company to hold general multiple proxies in preference to appointing corporate meetings other than AGMs on 14 clear days notice.
representatives given the uncertainty arising from the provisions in the 2006 Act regarding the validity of votes cast by multiple At last years AGM, new Articles of Association were adopted which corporate representatives.
However, where corporate shareholders include a provision allowing general meetings of the Company to be have appointed multiple corporate representatives, the Company called on the minimum notice period provided for in the 2006 Act.
intends to follow the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered For general meetings other than AGMs the minimum notice period Secretaries and Administrators ICSA, as described below.
permitted by the 2006 Act is currently 14 days.
However, the 2006 Act provisions relating to meetings are due to be amended with In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the effect from 3 August 2009, as a result of the UK implementation Meeting, arrangements will be in place at the Meeting so that: of the EU Shareholders Rights Directive.
The Government is still consulting on the detail of the amendments that are to be made and will not publish the final form regulations making the amendments until later in 2009.
One of the amendments to be 5 This electronic address is provided solely for the purposes of enabling made will, in accordance with the EU Shareholders Rights Directive, shareholders to register their appointment of a proxy or proxies for the AGM increase the minimum notice period for listed company general electronically.
The Company will not accept any other document or information meetings to 21 days, but with an ability for companies to reduce this relating to proceedings of the Meeting which may be sent by electronic means to that address.
com DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION 133 i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear does not make Meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the Meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his accordance with those directions.
Voting cards will be made CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as available to corporate representatives at the Meeting: and shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by ii if more than one corporate representative for the same means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST corporate shareholder attends the Meeting but the corporate sponsors or voting service provider s are referred, in particular, to shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the Meeting those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations as its corporate representative, a designated corporate of the CREST system and timings.
representative will be nominated from those corporate representatives who attend the Meeting, and will vote on a poll.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the The other corporate representatives will give voting directions circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated to that designated corporate representative.
In accordance with Securities Regulations 2001. the ICSAs guidance, the designated corporate representative Persons nominated by shareholders shall be the first of the corporate representatives to have A copy of this Notice has been sent for information only to persons registered his her attendance at the Meeting.
Voting cards will who have been nominated by a shareholder to enjoy information be made available to corporate representatives at the Meeting.
rights under section 146 of the 2006 Act a Nominated Person.
Corporate shareholders are recommended to read the guidance The rights to appoint a proxy set out in this Notice do not apply to issued by the ICSA on proxies and corporate representatives at Nominated Persons: they can only be exercised by the shareholder.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an includes a sample form of representation letter for those corporate agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she shareholders wishing to appoint the Chairman as its designated was nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the Meeting or to corporate representative as described in i above.
Should you have have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person does not any queries in relation to proxy appointments or corporate have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may have a representatives, please contact the Companys Registrar, Equiniti, right under such an agreement to give instructions to the on 0871 384 2064. shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
Electronic proxy appointment through CREST Total shares and voting rights CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the As at 3 March 2009, the Companys capital consisted of CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the AGM 3 583 096 474 ordinary shares in issue of which 225 289 873 to be held on 18 May 2009 and any adjournment s thereof by using were held in treasury.
Therefore, the total number of voting the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal rights in BG Group plc as at 3 March 2009 was 3 357 806 601. members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should Summary of AGM business refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will A summary of the business carried out at the Meeting will be be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
published on the Groups website.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited Euroclear specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or proxies, or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by 2.00 pm on 16 May 2009 or, if the Meeting is adjourned, by not less than 48 hours before the time of the adjourned meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
