DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION 65 Principal accounting policies BASIS OF PREPARATION BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL The Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 In the event of a business combination, fair values are attributed to have been prepared in accordance with International Financial the net assets acquired.
Goodwill, which represents the difference Reporting Standards IFRS, and International Financial Reporting between the purchase consideration and the fair value of the net Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by assets acquired, is capitalised and subject to an impairment the EU.
In addition, the Financial Statements have been prepared review at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 and in circumstances indicate that the goodwill may be impaired.
2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Financial Goodwill is treated as an asset of the relevant entity to which it Statements have been prepared primarily using historical cost relates, including foreign entities.
Accordingly, it is re-translated principles except that, as disclosed in the accounting policies below, into pounds Sterling at the closing rate of exchange at each certain items, including derivatives, are measured at fair value.
The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with IFRS PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT EXCLUDING DECOMMISSIONING requires management to make judgments and assumptions that ASSETS affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure All property, plant and equipment is carried at depreciated historical of contingencies at the date of the Financial Statements and the cost.
Additions represent new, or replacements of specific components reported revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
of, property, plant and equipment.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
BG Group believes that the accounting policies associated with exploration Contributions received towards the cost of property, plant and expenditure, depreciation, decommissioning, impairments, equipment including government grants are included in creditors financial instruments including commodity contracts, and as deferred income and credited to the income statement over revenue recognition are the policies where changes in estimates the life of the assets.
Finance costs associated with borrowings and assumptions could have a significant impact on the Financial used to finance major capital projects are capitalised up to the Statements.
Further discussion on these policies, estimates and point at which the asset is ready for its intended use.
judgments can be found in the Financial review, pages 28 to 34: note 5, page 85: note 10, page 88: and note 19, page 95.
DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION The presentation adopted by the Group for its results under Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other property, plant and equipment, IFRS is explained in note 2, page 75. except exploration and production assets, is depreciated on a straight-line basis at rates sufficient to write off the historical cost BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION less residual value of individual assets over their estimated useful The Financial Statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts economic lives.
The depreciation periods for the principal categories of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings and incorporate the of assets are as follows: results of its share of jointly controlled entities and associates using Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 years the equity method of accounting.
Consistent accounting policies Mains, services and meters up to 60 years have been used to prepare the consolidated Financial Statements.
Plant and machinery 5 to 30 years Most of BG Groups exploration and production activity is conducted Motor vehicles and office equipment up to 10 years through jointly controlled operations.
BG Group accounts for its own share of the assets, liabilities and cash flows associated with Exploration and production assets are depreciated from the these jointly controlled operations using the proportional commencement of production in the fields concerned, using the consolidation method.
unit of production method based on the proved developed reserves The results of undertakings acquired or disposed of are consolidated of those fields, except that a basis of total proved reserves is used from or to the date when control passes to or from the Company.
for acquired interests and for facilities.
Changes in these estimates For the Company Financial Statements only, investments are dealt with prospectively.
in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision Residual values and asset lives are reassessed annually.
Intangible assets in respect of contractual rights are recognised PRESENTATION OF RESULTS at cost less amortisation.
They are amortised on a straight-line basis over the term of the related contracts.
The Group presents its results in the income statement to separately identify the contribution of disposals, certain re-measurements and impairments in order to provide readers with a clear and consistent IMPAIRMENT OF NON-CURRENT ASSETS presentation of the underlying operating performance of the Groups Any impairment of non-current assets excluding financial assets ongoing business, see note 2, page 75 and note 9, page 88. is calculated as the difference between the carrying values of cash generating units including associated goodwill and their recoverable amount, being the higher of the estimated value in use or fair value SEGMENT REPORTING The Groups reportable segments are operating segments that less costs to sell at the date the impairment loss is recognised.
Value in use represents the net present value of expected future engage in different business activities for the Group.
The Groups Board and management review the results of operating segments.
cash flows discounted on a pre-tax basis.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 66 Financial Statements Principal accounting policies continued ASSETS HELD FOR SALE DECOMMISSIONING COSTS When an asset or disposal groups carrying value will be recovered Where a legal or constructive obligation has been incurred, principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing provision is made for the net present value of the estimated cost use, it is classified as held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying of decommissioning at the end of the producing lives of fields.
value and fair value less costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged in When this provision gives access to future economic benefits, an asset respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale.
is recognised and then subsequently depreciated in line with the life of the underlying producing field, otherwise the costs are charged to the INVENTORIES income statement.
The unwinding of the discount on the provision is Inventories, including inventories of gas, liquefied natural gas LNG included in the income statement within finance costs.
Any changes and oil held for sale in the ordinary course of business, are stated at to estimated costs or discount rates are dealt with prospectively.
weighted average historical cost less provision for deterioration and obsolescence or, if lower, net realisable value.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES On consolidation, assets and liabilities denominated in foreign REVENUE RECOGNITION currencies are translated into pounds Sterling the functional Revenue associated with exploration and production sales of currency of the Company and the presentation currency of the crude oil and petroleum products including natural gas is recorded Group at closing rates of exchange.
Trading results of overseas when title passes to the customer.
Revenue from the production subsidiary undertakings, jointly controlled entities and associates of natural gas and oil in which the Group has an interest with other are translated into pounds Sterling at average rates of exchange.
producers is recognised based on the Groups working interest and Differences resulting from the retranslation of the opening net the terms of the relevant production sharing contracts entitlement assets and the results for the year are taken to reserves.
Differences between production sold and the Groups differences arising from 1 January 2003, the date of transition share of production are not significant.
to IFRS, are presented as a separate component of equity.
Sales of LNG and associated products are recognised when title Exchange differences on monetary assets and liabilities arising in passes to the customer.
LNG shipping revenue is recognised over individual companies are taken to the income statement, with the the period of the relevant contract.
exception of exchange differences on monetary items that form part of a net investment in a foreign operation.
These differences are taken Revenue from gas transmission and distribution activities is to reserves until the related net investment is disposed of.
All other recognised in the same period in which the related volumes exchange movements are dealt with through the income statement.
are delivered to the customer.
For power stations which are contracted based on availability, CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS revenue is recognised based on the availability status of the power Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits with a station to produce at a given point in time.
Where power output maturity of three months or less, and other short-term highly liquid is sold under pool or other contractual arrangements and where investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash.
revenue is linked to the costs of actual production, revenue is recognised when the output is delivered.
DEFERRED TAX All other revenue is recognised when title passes to the customer.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and EXPLORATION EXPENDITURE liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Financial Statements.
BG Group uses the successful efforts method of accounting for Currently enacted tax rates are used in the determination of deferred exploration expenditure.
Exploration expenditure, including licence income tax.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that acquisition costs, is capitalised as an intangible asset when incurred it is probable that future taxable profit will be available, against and certain expenditure, such as geological and geophysical which the temporary differences can be utilised.
A review of each licence or field is Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on carried out, at least annually, to ascertain whether proved reserves investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, have been discovered.
When proved reserves are determined, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference the relevant expenditure, including licence acquisition costs, is can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference transferred to property, plant and equipment and depreciated on will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Expenditure deemed to be unsuccessful is written off to the income statement.
Exploration expenditure is LEASES assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances suggest Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in that its carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
For the property, plant and equipment at the lower of fair value and the purposes of impairment testing, exploration and production assets present value of the minimum lease payments as determined at may be aggregated into appropriate cash generating units based the inception of the lease.
The obligations relating to finance leases, on considerations including geographical location, the use of net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are determined common facilities and marketing arrangements.
at the inception of the lease and included within borrowings.
The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect the constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting period.
com DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION 67 The Group has certain long-term arrangements under which it has The Group uses various commodity based derivative instruments acquired all of the capacity of certain property, plant and equipment.
to manage some of the risks arising from fluctuations in commodity In circumstances where it is considered that the Group has the prices.
Such contracts include physical and net settled forwards, majority of the risks and rewards of ownership of the plant, the futures, swaps and options.
Where these derivatives have been arrangement is considered to contain a finance lease.
designated as cash flow hedges of underlying commodity price exposures, certain gains and losses attributable to these Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income instruments are deferred in equity and recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
statement when the underlying hedged transaction crystallises.
All other commodity contracts within the scope of IAS 39 are measured FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS at fair value with gains and losses taken to the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised and subsequently re-measured at fair value.
Gas contracts and related derivative instruments associated with the physical purchase and re-sale of third-party gas are presented Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Groups treasury on a net basis within other operating income.
operations include interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, cross currency interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and forward exchange contracts.
PENSIONS The amount recognised on the balance sheet in respect of liabilities Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges for defined benefit pension and post-retirement benefit plans in line with the Groups risk management policies.
Gains and losses represents the present value of the obligations offset by the arising from the re-measurement of these financial instruments fair value of plan assets and excluding actuarial gains and losses are either recognised in the income statement or deferred in equity not recognised.
depending on the type of hedging relationship.
When a hedging instrument is sold or expires, any cumulative gain or loss previously The cost of providing retirement pensions and related benefits recognised in equity remains in equity until the hedged transaction is charged to the income statement over the periods benefiting is recognised in the income statement.
Current service costs are reflected in operating profit and financing costs are reflected in finance Movements in the fair value of derivative financial instruments costs in the period in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses not included in hedging relationships are recognised in the that exceed the greater of 10% of plan assets or plan obligations income statement.
are spread over the average remaining service lives of the employees Loans held by the Group are initially measured at fair value and participating in the plan and are reflected in operating profit.
subsequently carried at amortised cost except where they form the Contributions made to defined contribution pension plans underlying transaction in an effective fair value hedge relationship are charged to the income statement when payable.
when the carrying value is adjusted to reflect fair value movements associated with the hedged risks.
Such adjustments are reported in SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS the income statement.
The cost of providing share-based payments to employees is Other financial instruments such as receivable balances are charged to the income statement over the vesting period of the measured at amortised cost less impairments.
Liabilities associated related share options or share allocations.
The cost is based on with financial guarantee contracts are initially measured at fair the fair value of the options or shares allocated and the number value and re-measured at each balance sheet date.
of awards expected to vest.
The fair value of each option or share is determined using either a Black-Scholes option pricing model COMMODITY INSTRUMENTS or a Monte Carlo projection model, depending on the type of award.
Within the ordinary course of business the Group routinely enters Market related performance conditions are reflected in the fair into sale and purchase transactions for commodities.
The majority value of the share.
Non-market related performance conditions of these transactions take the form of contracts that were entered are allowed for using a separate assumption about the number into and continue to be held for the purpose of receipt or delivery of awards expected to vest: the final charge made reflects the of the commodity in accordance with the Groups expected sale, number actually vesting.
Such contracts are not within the scope of IAS 39.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AND ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE All research and advertising expenditure is written off as incurred.
Certain long-term gas sales contracts operating in the UK gas market have terms within the contract that constitute written Development expenditure is written off as incurred unless it meets options, and accordingly they fall within the scope of IAS 39.
In the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
Where addition, commodity instruments are used to manage certain the recognition criteria are met, intangible assets are capitalised price exposures in respect of optimising the timing and location and amortised over their useful economic lives.
of its physical gas and LNG commitments.
These contracts are recognised on the balance sheet at fair value with movements in fair value recognised in the income statement, see Presentation of results above: note 2, page 75: and note 9, page 88.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
