42472 Financial:42472 Financial 21 4 08 02:22 Page 60 60 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts investments as supplied by the managers of those funds or Notes partnerships.
The Directors regularly review the principles applied by the managers to those valuations to ensure they are 1.
General Information in compliance with the above policies.
Alliance Trust PLC was incorporated in the United Kingdom Defined Benefit Scheme under the Companies Acts 1862-1886.
The address of the registered office is given on page 88.
The nature of the Groups The estimation of the expected cash flows used in the operations and its principal activities are a global calculation of the defined benefit schemes liabilities includes a investment trust.
number of assumptions around mortality, inflation rates applicable to defined benefits and the average expected service The functional currency of the Group is sterling and these lives of the employees.
The Directors take advice from the financial statements are presented in sterling because that is Scheme Actuary when selecting these assumptions and when the currency of the primary economic environment in which the selecting the discount rate used to calculate the defined benefit Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance scheme liabilities.
with the policies set out in note 2.
Comparatives - Merger with The Second Alliance Trust PLC 2.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies On 21 June 2006 the Company acquired The Second Alliance Changes in Accounting Policy Trust PLC Second Alliance for the consideration comprising the issue of new shares representing 25% of the Companys The only change in accounting policy in the period which amends enlarged share capital.
Prior to the acquisition the Company the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 January had shared its cost base with the Second Alliance and the 2007 is the decision by the Directors to include certain expenses impact of the acquisition was to increase both the asset base of connected with rental income and mineral rights in administrative the Company and its costs by approximately one third.
expenses, rather than netted off against income.
No material changes in accounting policy are anticipated in the forthcoming The Company accounted for this transaction as an acquisition of financial statements for the year ended 31 January 2009. assets, principally the portfolio of Second Alliance.
In the comparable period for last year, income and costs prior to Basis of accounting 21 June 2006 reflect those of the Company before the The financial statements of the Group have been prepared in acquisition and after that date reflect those of the Company as accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards enlarged by the Second Alliance.
IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union Adopted IFRSs.
The revenue of the Company for the year ended 31 January The financial statements have been prepared on the historical 2007 totalled 68.1m.
Had the revenue of the Second Alliance cost basis, except that investments and investment properties Trust been included in this figure for the period from are stated at fair value.
The principal accounting policies 1 February 2006 to 21 June 2006 the revenue of the Company adopted are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set would have increased by 10.4m to 78.5m.
out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for The expenses of the Company for the year ended 31 January investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment 2007 totalled 10.1m.
Had the expenses of the Second Alliance Companies AIC in January 2003 as revised in December 2005 Trust been included in this figure for the period from is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, then the directors 1 February 2006 to 21 June 2006 the expenses of the Company have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis would have increased by 1m to 11.1m.
compliant with the recommendations of the SORP.
The Company allocates direct costs, including expenses incidental to Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements the purchase and sale of investments and incentive awards The preparation of the financial statements necessarily requires deemed to be Performance Fees pursuant to the SORP against the exercise of judgement both in application of accounting capital profits.
However, the Company does not comply with the policies which are set out below and in the selection of recommendation of the SORP that either a proportion of all assumptions used in the calculation of estimates.
These indirect expenditure or no indirect expenditure is allocated estimates and judgements are reviewed on an ongoing basis against capital profits.
The Company allocates indirect and are continually evaluated based on historical experience expenditure against revenue profits save that two thirds of the and other factors.
However, actual results may differ from these costs of bank indebtedness, an indirect cost, are allocated estimates.
The most significantly affected components of the against capital profits.
The allocation of the costs of bank financial statements and associated critical judgements are indebtedness reflects the long term return expected from the as follows: Companys investment portfolio and that if this cost was Valuation of unlisted investments allocated only against revenue profits it could deter the Company from borrowing and adversely impact its overall Investments which are not listed or which are not frequently investment objective of both revenue and capital growth.
traded are stated at Directors best estimate of fair value.
In arriving at their estimate, the Directors make use of recognised IFRS Applied valuation techniques and may take account of recent arms The following IFRS standards and IFRIC interpretations have length transactions in the same or similar investment been applied in the current financial year: IFRS 7 Financial instruments.
Where no reliable fair value can be estimated, Instruments: Disclosures, the amendment to IAS 1 Presentation investments may be carried at cost less any provision for of Financial Statements on capital disclosure, IFRIC 7 Applying impairment.
With respect specifically to investments in private the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in equity, whether through funds or partnerships, the Directors Hyperinflationary economies, IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Sharerely on unaudited valuations of the underlying unlisted based Payment, IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives
