42472 Financial:42472 Financial 21 4 08 02:22 Page 60 60 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts investments as supplied by the managers of those funds or Notes partnerships.
The Directors regularly review the principles applied by the managers to those valuations to ensure they are 1.
General Information in compliance with the above policies.
Alliance Trust PLC was incorporated in the United Kingdom Defined Benefit Scheme under the Companies Acts 1862-1886.
The address of the registered office is given on page 88.
The nature of the Groups The estimation of the expected cash flows used in the operations and its principal activities are a global calculation of the defined benefit schemes liabilities includes a investment trust.
number of assumptions around mortality, inflation rates applicable to defined benefits and the average expected service The functional currency of the Group is sterling and these lives of the employees.
The Directors take advice from the financial statements are presented in sterling because that is Scheme Actuary when selecting these assumptions and when the currency of the primary economic environment in which the selecting the discount rate used to calculate the defined benefit Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance scheme liabilities.
with the policies set out in note 2.
Comparatives - Merger with The Second Alliance Trust PLC 2.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies On 21 June 2006 the Company acquired The Second Alliance Changes in Accounting Policy Trust PLC Second Alliance for the consideration comprising the issue of new shares representing 25% of the Companys The only change in accounting policy in the period which amends enlarged share capital.
Prior to the acquisition the Company the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 January had shared its cost base with the Second Alliance and the 2007 is the decision by the Directors to include certain expenses impact of the acquisition was to increase both the asset base of connected with rental income and mineral rights in administrative the Company and its costs by approximately one third.
expenses, rather than netted off against income.
No material changes in accounting policy are anticipated in the forthcoming The Company accounted for this transaction as an acquisition of financial statements for the year ended 31 January 2009. assets, principally the portfolio of Second Alliance.
In the comparable period for last year, income and costs prior to Basis of accounting 21 June 2006 reflect those of the Company before the The financial statements of the Group have been prepared in acquisition and after that date reflect those of the Company as accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards enlarged by the Second Alliance.
IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union Adopted IFRSs.
The revenue of the Company for the year ended 31 January The financial statements have been prepared on the historical 2007 totalled 68.1m.
Had the revenue of the Second Alliance cost basis, except that investments and investment properties Trust been included in this figure for the period from are stated at fair value.
The principal accounting policies 1 February 2006 to 21 June 2006 the revenue of the Company adopted are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set would have increased by 10.4m to 78.5m.
out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for The expenses of the Company for the year ended 31 January investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment 2007 totalled 10.1m.
Had the expenses of the Second Alliance Companies AIC in January 2003 as revised in December 2005 Trust been included in this figure for the period from is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, then the directors 1 February 2006 to 21 June 2006 the expenses of the Company have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis would have increased by 1m to 11.1m.
compliant with the recommendations of the SORP.
The Company allocates direct costs, including expenses incidental to Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements the purchase and sale of investments and incentive awards The preparation of the financial statements necessarily requires deemed to be Performance Fees pursuant to the SORP against the exercise of judgement both in application of accounting capital profits.
However, the Company does not comply with the policies which are set out below and in the selection of recommendation of the SORP that either a proportion of all assumptions used in the calculation of estimates.
These indirect expenditure or no indirect expenditure is allocated estimates and judgements are reviewed on an ongoing basis against capital profits.
The Company allocates indirect and are continually evaluated based on historical experience expenditure against revenue profits save that two thirds of the and other factors.
However, actual results may differ from these costs of bank indebtedness, an indirect cost, are allocated estimates.
The most significantly affected components of the against capital profits.
The allocation of the costs of bank financial statements and associated critical judgements are indebtedness reflects the long term return expected from the as follows: Companys investment portfolio and that if this cost was Valuation of unlisted investments allocated only against revenue profits it could deter the Company from borrowing and adversely impact its overall Investments which are not listed or which are not frequently investment objective of both revenue and capital growth.
traded are stated at Directors best estimate of fair value.
In arriving at their estimate, the Directors make use of recognised IFRS Applied valuation techniques and may take account of recent arms The following IFRS standards and IFRIC interpretations have length transactions in the same or similar investment been applied in the current financial year: IFRS 7 Financial instruments.
Where no reliable fair value can be estimated, Instruments: Disclosures, the amendment to IAS 1 Presentation investments may be carried at cost less any provision for of Financial Statements on capital disclosure, IFRIC 7 Applying impairment.
With respect specifically to investments in private the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in equity, whether through funds or partnerships, the Directors Hyperinflationary economies, IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Sharerely on unaudited valuations of the underlying unlisted based Payment, IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders 42472 Financial:42472 Financial 21 4 08 02:22 Page 61 Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 61 and IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment.
Revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2008 and Revised IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 2008 There is no material financial impact arising from the are effective for periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009. application of these standards and interpretations.
The financial statements have been updated to include new  to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation arising from these standards and interpretations where and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Puttable appropriate.
Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation are effective for periods commencing on or after IFRS Not Yet Applied 1 January 2009.
The following standards and interpretations have been adopted Basis of consolidation by the European Union but are not effective for the year ended 31 January 2008 and have not been applied in preparing the The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial financial statements: statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 January each year.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments which is applicable for periods Control is achieved where the Company has the power to commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
The application of govern the financial and operating policies of an invested entity this standard in 2008 would not have had any financial so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury Share Transactions which is on consolidation.
effective for periods commencing on or after 1 March 2007.
Segmental Analysis The application of this interpretation in 2008 would not have affected the Group consolidated financial statements because No segmental analysis is provided as the requirements provided the interpretation deals with accounting for share-based under IAS14 have not been met and the directors consider that payments at subsidiary level.
At Company level no material the identified operating segments are immaterial in relation to adjustment arises since these costs are already recharged.
the results of the group as a whole.
The following standards and interpretations have not yet been Presentation of income statement adopted by the European Union, are not effective for the year In order better to reflect the activities of an investment trust ended 31 January 2008 and have not been applied in preparing company and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, the financial statements.
Where appropriate, disclosures will be supplementary information which analyses the income revised in the financial statements in the year in which the statement between items of a revenue and capital nature has standard or interpretation becomes applicable.
been presented alongside the income statement.
In accordance IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements which is effective with the Companys status as a UK investment company under for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
The section 266 of the Companies Act 1985, net capital returns may application of this revised standard in 2008 would not have not be distributed by way of dividend.
Additionally, the total had any financial impact.
revenue is the measure the directors believe appropriate in assessing the Companys compliance with certain requirements Revised IAS 23 Borrowing Costs which is applicable to set out in Section 842 Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988. borrowing costs related to qualifying assets for which the commencement date for capitalisation is on or after 1 Goodwill January 2009.
The application of this revised standard in 2008 Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the would not have had a material impact on the financial cost of acquisition over the groups interest in the fair value of statements.
the identifiable assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, associate IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements which is effective or jointly controlled entity at the date of the acquisition.
for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2008.
The Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is application of this interpretation in 2008 would not have had subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment a material impact on the financial statements.
Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes which is effective for immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
periods commencing on or after 1 July 2008.
The application of this interpretation in 2008 would not have had a material For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to impact on the financial statements.
each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units toIFRIC 14 Defined Benefit Assets and Minimum Funding which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment Requirements which is effective for periods commencing on annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that or after 1 January 2008.
The Group will be assessing the the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the Interpretation and whether it can recognise the current cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the surplus and if appropriate will reflect the impact in the 2009 unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying financial statements.
amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the The following standards have been issued during 2008, have other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying not been endorsed by the European Union, are not effective for amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised the year ended 31 January 2008 and have not been applied in for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, IFRS 2 Share-based Payments amendment on Vesting the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the Conditions and Cancellations which is effective for periods determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
42472 Financial:42472 Financial 21 4 08 02:22 Page 62 62 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition toThe Directors have determined to allocate two thirds of the IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts cost of bank indebtedness incurred to finance investment subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill against capital profits with the balance being allocated written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not against revenue profits.
been reinstated and is not included in determining any Share based payments subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
The group operates three share based payment schemes, the Revenue Recognition All Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP, the Senior Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Management Equity Incentive Plan SMEIP and the Long Term shareholders rights to receive payment have been established, Incentive Plan LTIP.
The cost of the AESOP is recognised as a normally the ex-dividend date.
The grant date fair value of options granted to employees under the SMEIP and LTIP is recognised as Where the Group has elected to receive its dividends in the an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, form of additional shares rather than cash, the amount of cash over the period in which the employees become unconditionally dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Any excess in the entitled to the options.
The amount recognised as an expense value of shares received over the amount of cash dividend may be adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options foregone is recognised as a capital gain in the that vest.
For share based compensation schemes settled by the income statement.
Company a recharge equal to the cost during the period is Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the made to subsidiary companies.
principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate Pension costs applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial Employer contributions to pension arrangements for staff are asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Special dividends are treated as repayment of capital or as Contributions in respect of defined benefit provision are income depending on the facts of each particular case.
calculated by reference to actuarial valuations carried out for the Trustees at intervals of not more than three years, and Underwriting commission is recognised as earned.
represent a charge to cover the accruing liabilities on a Savings and pension plan transaction charges and set-up fees continuing basis.
are accounted for on the date on which the underlying The asset recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the transaction occurs.
Annual charges are applied over the period defined benefit plan is at the lower value of: to which they relate.
the fair value of the plan assets at the balance sheet date less Previously, certain expenses connected with rental income and the present value of the Companys defined benefit mineral rights were netted off against that income.
The obligation, together with adjustments for unrecognised past Directors have determined that these costs should be included service costs.
Prior year comparitives have been restated accordingly.
the total of any cumulative unrecognised net actuarial losses and past service cost plus the present value of any economic Foreign currencies benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or Transactions in currencies other than sterling are recorded at reductions in future contributions to the plan.
the rates of exchange applicable to the dates of the Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary items and which they occur through equity.
non-monetary assets and liabilities that are fair valued and are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates Taxation prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on The Company carries on its business as an investment trust and retranslation are included as capital net profit or loss for the conducts its affairs so as to qualify as such under the provisions period where investments are classified as fair value through of Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988. profit or loss.
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable Expenses and deferred tax.
All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
In respect The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
of the analysis between revenue and capital items presented Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income within the income statement, all expenses have been presented statement because it excludes items of income or expense that as revenue items except as follows: are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes Expenses which are incidental to the acquisition of an items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability investment are included within the cost of that investment.
for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Expenses which are incidental to the disposal of an investment are deducted from the disposal proceeds of the In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation investment.
method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against capital returns in the supplementary information in the The Directors have determined to allocate annual bonus and income statement is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if Incentive Plan costs which relate to the achievement of taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses investment manager performance objectives and total presented in the revenue return column of the income shareholder return performance objectives against capital statement, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital profits and those that relate to the achievement of job return column.
performance objectives against revenue profits.
Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders 42472 Financial:42472 Financial 21 4 08 02:22 Page 63 Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 63 Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable financial instrument is not active, fair value is established by temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to using valuation techniques, which may include using recent the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be arms length market transactions between knowledgeable, available against which deductible temporary differences can be willing parties, if available, reference to the current fair value of utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the another instrument that is substantially the same, discounted temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of cash flow analysis and option pricing models.
Where there is a goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a valuation technique commonly used by market participants to business combination of other asset and liabilities in a price the instrument and that technique has been demonstrated transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the to provide reliable estimates of prices obtained in actual market accounting profit.
transactions, that technique is utilised.
Where no reliable fair value can be estimated for such unquoted equity instruments, Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary they are carried at cost, subject to any provision for impairment.
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able Investments in subsidiaries are valued at net asset value as the to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is directors consider this to be the fair value of those entities.
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of foreseeable future.
investments are considered to be realised to the extent that The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each they are readily convertible to cash in full at the balance sheet balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no date without accepting adverse terms.
Fair value gains and longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available losses on unlisted investments, subsidiaries and investment to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
properties are not considered to be readily convertible to cash and are therefore treated as unrealised.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is Foreign exchange gains and losses for fair-value designated realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income investments are included within the changes in its fair value.
statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited Other receivables directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt Other receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at with in equity.
their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a estimated irrecoverable amounts.
legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against Office premises current tax liabilities and where they relate to income taxes Office premises at Meadow House are shown at the valuation as levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to at 31 May 2006 carried out by chartered surveyors on the basis settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
No depreciation has been charged on this asset Financial instruments as, in the opinion of the board, any provision for depreciation Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the would be immaterial in relation to the revenue for the year and Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the the assets of the Company.
The Directors consider that the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group shall offset valuation as at 31 May 2006 is still appropriate at financial assets and financial liabilities if the Group has a legally 31 January 2008. enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and Construction of a new head office at 8 West Marketgait began interests and intends to settle on a net basis.
The directors have valued the land and building IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure has been adopted for work to 31 January 2008 at cost.
The purpose of the standard is to introduce Intangible assets disclosure requirements on the significance of financial The external costs associated with the development and instruments to an entitys financial position and performance, procurement of significant technology systems are capitalised the risks arising from these instruments, and how the entity when it is probable that the expected future economic benefit manages those risks.
of that system will flow to the entity.
They are stated at cost less Investments accumulated amortisation.
On the completion of each project Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade date amortisation is charged so as to write off the value of these where a purchase or sale is under a contract whose terms assets over periods up to five years.
require delivery within the timeframe established by the market Customer contracts concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including Customer contracts are stated at cost less accumulated transaction costs.
They are being amortised so as to write off the Investments are principally designated as fair value through value of these contracts over a period of twenty years.
profit and loss upon initial recognition.
Listed investments are Motor vehicles and other fixed assets measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which is either the bid price or the last traded price, depending on the Motor vehicles and certain other fixed assets are held at cost convention of the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
less accumulated depreciation, which is charged to write off the value of the asset over three years.
Investments in property are initially recognised at cost and then valued at fair value with changes in fair value recognised Financial liabilities and equity through the income statement.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified In respect of unquoted instruments, or where the market for a according to the substance of the contractual arrangements
