Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders 42472 Financial:42472 Financial 21 4 08 02:23 Page 79 Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 79 22 Financial commitments Financial commitments of the Company as at 31 January 2008, which have not been accrued, amounted to 71,302,451 37,032,030 in respect of uncalled subscriptions in investments structured as limited liability partnerships.
This is the maximum amount that the Company may be required to invest.
The Company may choose not to fulfil individual commitments but may suffer a penalty should it do so, the terms of which vary between investments.
23 Financial instruments and Risk The Directors Report details the Companys approach to investment risk management on pages 32 and 33 and the accounting policies on pages 60 to 64 explain the basis on which currencies and investments are valued for accounting purposes.
All assets and liabilities are carried at fair value, with the exception of the Companys debenture and preference stocks.
Risk management policies and procedures As an investment trust the Company invests in equities, investment property, private equity, and its subsidiary businesses for the long term in order to achieve the investment objectives set on page 8.
In pursuing these objectives the Company is exposed to a variety of risks that could result in a reduction in the Companys net assets or a reduction in the profits available for payment as dividends.
The principal financial instruments at risk comprise those in the Companys investment portfolio and this note addresses these risks below.
The Group has certain additional risks, and these are detailed in the appropriate sections below.
These risks and the directors approach to managing them are set out below under the following headings: market risk comprising currency risk, interest rate risk, and other price risk, liquidity risk, and credit risk.
The Group has a risk management framework in place which is described in detail on pages 32 and 33.
The objectives, policies and processes for managing the risks, and the methods used to measure the risks have not changed from the previous accounting period.
23.1 Market Risk Market risk embodies the potential for both losses and gains and includes currency risk see note 23.2, interest rate risk see note 23.3 and price risk see note 23.4.
Market risk is managed on a regular basis by the Asset Liability and Income Committee ALICo.
The purpose of this Executive Committee is to manage the capital of the company within parameters set by the Directors on investment and asset allocation strategies and risk.
The Companys strategy on investment risk is outlined in our statement of investment objectives and policy on page 8.
Details of the investment portfolio at the balance sheet date are disclosed on pages 9 to 23.
In the course of 2007 the Board has approved a derivatives policy but no derivatives transactions had been entered into as at the balance sheet date.
23.2 Currency Risk Some of the groups assets, liabilities and transactions are denominated in currencies other than its functional currency of sterling.
Consequently the group is exposed to the risk that movements in exchange rates may affect the sterling value of those items.
The groups currency holdings and gains losses are reviewed regularly by the Directors, and the currency risk is managed on a regular basis by ALICo within parameters set by the Directors on investment and asset allocation strategies and risk.
At the reporting date the group had the following currency exposures:
