STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial with applicable law and regulations.
References to the Group and position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that parent company financial statements are made in relation to the its financial statements comply with the UK Companies Act 1985.
Group and individual parent company financial statements of They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are BHP Billiton Plc.
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
The Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial that comply with that law and those regulations.
statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
the corporate and financial information included on the Companys The Group financial statements must, in accordance with IFRS as website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and adopted by the EU and applicable law, present fairly the financial dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation position and performance of the Group: references in the UK in other jurisdictions.
Companies Act 1985 to such financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements must, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the parent company for the financial year.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 241 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
