3 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS continued 3.7.
3 Net debt and sources of liquidity continued We continued to purchase shares under the previously announced US$13 billion buy back program.
During the year, The Groups US$3.0 billion multi-currency revolving credit we repurchased and cancelled 96,904,086 BHP Billiton Plc shares, facility, established in October 2006, matures in October 2011. through on-market buy-backs, at an approximate average price As at 30 June 2008, this facility was undrawn.
These shares were purchased under this facility are based on an interbank rate plus a margin.
via an independent third party under an irrevocable mandate.
The applicable margin is typical for a credit facility extended When the mandate expired on 14 December 2007, the buy-back to a company with our credit rating.
A negative pledge applies program was suspended.
At the time of the suspension, we had to the credit facility.
returned US$8.8 billion of the US$13 billion.
In February 2008, we entered into a US$55 billion facility and Since August 2004, we have announced capital management subscription agreement to, among other things, meet potential initiatives totalling US$17 billion.
Since the first buy-back in funding requirements in relation to our offers for Rio Tinto.
This facility is currently undrawn.
The terms of the facility 2004, 680 million shares have been repurchased, representing approximately 11 per cent of the total shares on issue at are summarised in section 2.13 Material contracts.
an approximate price of US$18.53 A$23.25 GBP9.57.
Apart from the new facility and subscription agreement referred to above, none of our general borrowing facilities are subject to financial covenants.
Certain specific financing facilities 3.8 Off-balance sheet arrangements in relation to specific businesses are the subject of financial and contractual commitments covenants that vary from facility to facility, but which would be considered normal for such facilities.
Information in relation to our material off-balance sheet arrangements, principally contingent liabilities, commitments 3.7.
4 Quantitative and qualitative disclosures for capital expenditure and other expenditure and commitments about market risk under leases at 30 June 2008 is provided in note 27 Contingent We identified above in Our business external factors and trends liabilities and note 28 Commitments to the financial statements.
affecting our results section 3.4 in this Report our primary We expect that these contractual commitments for expenditure, market risks.
A description of how we manage our market risks, together with other expenditure and liquidity requirements will including both quantitative and qualitative information about our be met from internal cash flow and, to the extent necessary, market risk sensitive instruments outstanding at 30 June 2008, from the existing facilities described in section 3.7.
3. is contained in note 26 Financial risk management to the financial statements.
On 6 February 2008, we announced the terms of two inter-conditional offers for the entire ordinary share capital 3.7.
5 Portfolio management of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Under the announced Our strategy is focused on long-life, low-cost, expandable assets offers, we will offer 3.4 BHP Billiton shares for each Rio Tinto and we continually review our portfolio to identify assets which share tendered.
The offers are subject to certain pre-conditions do not fit this strategy.
These activities continued during the relating to merger control and regulatory approvals in a number period, with proceeds amounting to US$180 million being realised of jurisdictions, including the approval of anti-trust authorities from divestments including the Elouera coal mine Illawarra Coal in the European Union, the United States, Australia, Canada Operation, Australia.
Other disposals include mining leases and South Africa, and foreign investment authorities in Australia.
at Poitrel Queensland Coal, Australia and Optimum Colliery Provided the pre-conditions have been satisfied or waived, we will South Africa.
Proceeds from the sale or distribution of be obliged to make the offers on the terms we have announced our assets and interests since 2001 now surpass US$6 billion.
or terms no less favourable to Rio Tinto shareholders.
We will purchase interests in assets where they fit our strategy.
During the year we announced an arrangement to acquire 3.9 Subsidiaries and related party transactions Anglo Potash Limited which was subsequently completed Subsidiary information on 10 July 2008.
In addition, on 17 July 2008 we announced that BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance BMA had entered into Information on our significant subsidiaries is included a conditional agreement to acquire 100 per cent of the New in note 37 Subsidiaries to the financial statements.
Saraji Coal Project for a cash consideration of approximately Related party transactions US$2.4 billion US$1.2 billion our share.
Related party transactions are outlined in note 32 Related party 3.7.
6 Dividend and capital management transactions in the financial statements.
On 18 August 2008, the Board declared a final dividend of 41.0 US cents per share.
This rebased dividend represents 3.10 Significant changes a 51.9 per cent increase over last years final dividend of 27.0 US cents per share.
This brings the total dividends for FY2008 Other than the matters disclosed elsewhere in this Report, to 70.0 US cents per share, an increase of 23.0 US cents per share, no matters or circumstances have arisen since the end of or 48.9 per cent, over last year and 150.0 per cent over the past the year that have significantly affected, or may significantly three years.
The Boards declaration represents our thirteenth affect, the operations, results of operations or state of affairs consecutive dividend increase and signals our confidence in the of the BHP Billiton Group in subsequent accounting periods.
outlook and our ability to consistently deliver future earnings and cash flow.
Our dividend has increased by more than 530 per cent since the interim dividend paid in FY2002.
Our compound annual dividend growth rate has been 32.3 per cent over this period.
We intend to continue with our progressive dividend policy from this new base, with further increases dependent upon the expectations for future market conditions and investment opportunities.
116 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
