1 Risk and Audit Committee Report The RAC evaluates the performance of the External Auditor during its term of appointment against specified criteria The Risk and Audit Committee RAC met nine times during the including delivering value to shareholders and ourselves.
The current members are Mr David Crawford Chairman, RAC reviews the integrity, independence and objectivity Dr David Jenkins, Dr David Morgan and Mr Jacques Nasser, of the External Auditor.
This review includes: all of whom are independent non-executive Directors.
The confirming that the External Auditor is, in its judgement, Board has nominated Mr David Crawford as the Committees independent of the Group financial expert.
obtaining from the External Auditor an account of all relationships between the External Auditor and the Group Role and focus monitoring the number of former employees of the External The role of the RAC is to assist the Board in monitoring the Auditor currently employed in senior positions and assessing decisions and actions of the CEO and the Group and to gain whether those appointments impair, or appear to impair, assurance that progress is being made towards the Corporate the External Auditors judgement or independence Objective within the CEO limits.
The RAC undertakes this considering whether the various relationships between by overseeing: the Group and the External Auditor collectively impair, the integrity of the financial statements or appear to impair, the External Auditors judgement the appointment, remuneration, qualifications, or independence independence and performance of the External Auditor determining whether the compensation of individuals and the integrity of the audit process as a whole employed by the External Auditor who conduct the audit the performance and leadership of the internal is tied to the provision of non-audit services and, if so, audit function whether this impairs, or appears to impair, the External the effectiveness of the system of internal controls Auditors judgement or independence and risk management reviewing the economic importance of our business to the compliance with applicable legal and regulatory External Auditor and assessing whether that importance requirements impairs, or appears to impair, the External Auditors compliance by management with constraints imposed judgement or independence.
The audit engagement partner rotates every five years.
CSG Risk and Audit Committees We have a policy governing the conduct of non-audit work by the External Auditor.
Under the Provision of Other Services To assist management in providing the information necessary Policy the External Auditor cannot provide services where to allow the RAC to discharge its responsibilities, separate the External Auditor: Risk and Audit Committees have been established for each may be required to audit its own work Customer Sector Group CSG and key functional area.
These Committees, known as CSG RACs, have been established participates in activities that would normally be undertaken by management and operate as committees of management but are chaired by members of the RAC or by other external appointees with is remunerated through a success fee structure appropriate skills and experience.
They perform an important acts in an advocacy role for our business.
monitoring function in the overall governance of the Group.
This Policy on Provision of Other Services Management reports on significant matters raised by the External Auditor can be viewed at at CSG RAC meetings to the RAC.
Activities undertaken during the year Fees paid to the Groups External Auditor during the year Integrity of financial statements for audit and other services were US$21.8 million, of which The RAC assists the Board in assuring the integrity of 57 per cent comprised audit fees, 23 per cent related the financial statements.
The RAC evaluates and makes to legislative requirements including Sarbanes-Oxley and recommendations to the Board about the appropriateness 20 per cent other services.
Details of the fees paid are set out of accounting policies and practices, areas of judgement, in note 33 Auditors remuneration to the financial statements.
compliance with Accounting Standards, stock exchange Based on the review by the RAC, the Board is satisfied and legal requirements and the results of the external audit.
that the External Auditor is independent.
It reviews the half-yearly and annual financial statements and makes recommendations on specific actions or decisions Internal Audit including formal adoption of the financial statements and The Internal Audit function is carried out internally by Group reports the Board should consider in order to maintain the Audit Services GAS.
The role of GAS is to determine whether integrity of the financial statements.
From time-to-time, risk management, control and governance processes are the Board may delegate authority to the RAC to approve adequate and functioning.
The Internal Audit function is the release of the statements to the stock exchanges, independent of the External Auditor.
The RAC reviews the shareholders and the financial community.
mission and charter of GAS, the staffing levels and its scope The CEO and CFO have certified that the 2008 financial of work to ensure that it is appropriate in light of the key statements present a true and fair view, in all material risks we face.
It also reviews and approves the annual respects, of our financial condition and operating results and internal audit plan.
are in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements.
The RAC also approves the appointment and dismissal of the Vice President Risk Management and Assurance External Auditor and assesses his or her performance, independence and The RAC manages the relationship with the External Auditor objectivity.
The role of the Vice President Risk Management on behalf of the Board.
It recommends to the Board potential and Assurance includes achievement of the internal audit auditors for appointment and the terms of engagement, objectives, enterprise-wide risk management systems, risk including remuneration.
In December 2003, the Board, on management information systems and insurance strategy.
the recommendation of the RAC, approved the appointment The position is held by Mr Stefano Giorgini.
Mr Giorgini reports of KPMG.
Shareholders are asked to approve reappointment to management and has all necessary access to management of the auditors each year in the UK.
and the right to see information and explanations, and has unfettered access to the RAC.
38 - BHP BILLITON PLC CONCISE ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5604 BHPB Concise Sec 5-BC.
1 Risk and Audit Committee Report continued Effectiveness of systems of internal control The CEO and CFO have certified to the Board that the financial statements are founded on a sound system of risk and risk management management and internal compliance and that the system In delegating authority to the CEO, the Board has established is operating efficiently and effectively in all material respects.
CEO limits set out in the Board Governance Document.
One of the limits is to ensure that there is a system of control in place During the year the RAC reviewed our compliance with the for identifying and managing risk.
The Directors, through the obligations imposed by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including RAC, review the systems that have been established for this evaluating and documenting internal controls as required purpose and regularly review their effectiveness.
The RAC is responsible for the oversight of risk management The CEO and CFO, along with the management team have and reviews the internal controls and risk management performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design systems.
In undertaking this role the RAC reviews and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures the following: as of 30 June 2008.
Disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that the material procedures for identifying business risks and controlling their financial impact on the Group and the operational financial and non-financial information required to be disclosed is recorded, processed, summarised and reported effectiveness of the policies and procedures related to risk and control on a timely basis and that such information is accumulated and communicated to the members of the Group Management budgeting and forecasting systems, financial reporting Committee, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions systems and controls regarding required disclosure.
policies and practices put in place by the CEO for detecting, reporting and preventing fraud and serious breaches We conclude that our disclosure controls and procedures are of business conduct and whistle-blowing procedures effective in providing that reasonable assurance.
In reaching procedures for ensuring compliance with relevant that conclusion, we recognise that any controls and regulatory and legal requirements procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, have the inherent limitation that they can provide only ar rangements for protecting intellectual property reasonable, not absolute, assurance that: and other non-physical assets the objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures operational effectiveness of the CSG RAC structures are met overseeing the adequacy of the internal controls and all control issues and instances of fraud, if any have allocation of responsibilities for monitoring internal occurred, have been detected.
financial controls p olicies, information systems and procedures for preparation Further, when designing and evaluating possible disclosure and dissemination of information to shareholders, stock controls and procedures for the Group, our management is exchanges and the financial community.
required to apply its judgement with respect to relevant costs and benefits of the various internal controls.
For further discussion on our approach to risk management, refer to section 5.6 of this Report.
During the year the Group commenced implementing a new operating model to provide increased definition of roles and During the year, the Board conducted reviews of the accountabilities between the Group Functions and the CSGs.
effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls for the As part of this review, GAS has implemented a co-source model financial year and up to the date of this Report in accordance and will provide assurance on key Group policies, standards with the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance and procedures.
Full implementation will be completed in Turnbull Guidance and the Principles and Recommendations FY2009.
In all other respects, there have been no changes published by the ASX Corporate Governance Council.
These in our internal control over financial reporting as that term reviews covered financial, operational and compliance controls is defined by the Securities Exchange Act during FY2008 that and risk assessment.
During the year management presented have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially an assessment of the material business risks facing the Group affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
and the level of effectiveness of risk management over the material business risks.
The reviews were overseen by the Assessment of RAC performance RAC with findings and recommendations reported to the During the year the RAC assessed its performance in Board.
In addition to considering key risks facing the Group, accordance with its Terms of Reference, with the assistance the Board received an assessment of the effectiveness of an independent external adviser.
As a result of that of internal controls over key risks identified through the assessment the Committee is satisfied it has met its work of the Board Committees.
The Board is satisfied Terms of Reference.
that the effectiveness of the internal controls has been properly reviewed.
BHP BILLITON PLC CONCISE ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 39 5604 BHPB Concise Sec 5-BC.
