2 INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY continued 2.2.
6 Stainless Steel Materials Customer Sector Group a range of saleable by-products.
In June 2008, we announced that we brought forward a planned furnace rebuild at the Our Stainless Steel Materials business is primarily a supplier Kalgoorlie smelter and that, as a consequence, both the smelter of nickel to the stainless steel industry.
Nickel is an important and the Kwinana nickel refinery were shut down.
The smelter component of the most commonly used types of stainless furnace rebuild was completed after approximately three months, steel.
In addition, we supply nickel and cobalt to other markets with the refinery scheduled to resume production by the end including the specialty alloy, foundry, chemicals, and refractory of September 2008. material industries.
We are the worlds third-largest producer of nickel.
Our nickel business has expanded rapidly with Our Ravensthorpe nickel operation was commissioned during the acquisition of the former WMC nickel assets in 2005 and FY2008 and is in the process of ramping-up to full capacity.
the development of Ravensthorpe and the Yabulu expansion.
Ravensthorpe comprises a large open-cut laterite nickel mine We have a number of options to continue expanding to meet and an enhanced pressure acid leach concentrator plant.
We will the anticipated growth in stainless steel demand.
We sell our ship the plants production, a mixed hydroxide precipitate MHP nickel products under a mix of long-term, medium-term and containing approximately 40 per cent nickel, to the expanded spot contracts, with prices linked to the LME nickel price.
Yabulu refinery see below for refining into nickel metal.
Ravensthorpe has a reserve life of 21 years based on the Our nickel business comprises three sets of assets: expected rate of production when the ramp-up is complete.
Nickel West Yabulu Nickel West is the name for our wholly-owned Western Australian nickel assets, which consist of an integrated system This wholly-owned nickel refinery in Queensland, Australia of mines, concentrators, a smelter and refinery, together with began operations in 1974 to service the nearby nickel laterite our new Ravensthorpe nickel operation.
We mine nickel bearing Greenvale mine, which closed in 1993.
Since then, it has sulphide ore at our Mt Keith, Leinster and Cliffs operations continued to process laterite ores purchased from third north of Kalgoorlie, Western Australia.
We operate concentrator party mines in New Caledonia, Indonesia and the Philippines.
plants at Leinster, which also concentrates ore from Cliffs, In FY2008, we completed a significant expansion of the and at Mt Keith.
Although its ore is relatively low grade, Mt Keith refinery to give it the capacity to process MHP from is a large open-cut nickel mine and the concentrator processes Ravensthorpe.
The expansion more than doubled the nickel approximately 11.5 mtpa of ore. Leinster and Mt Keith have production capacity of the plant to an estimated 76,000 tpa reserve lives of seven and 14 years, respectively at current rates of contained nickel.
of production, and both have options for further expansion.
Cerro Matoso Cliffs is a new high grade underground mine with an expected reserve life of five years with extraction of ore commencing Cerro Matoso, our 99.94 per cent owned nickel operation in in FY2008.
Colombia, combines a lateritic nickel ore deposit with a low-cost ferronickel smelter.
Cerro Matoso is the worlds second-largest We also operate the Kambalda concentrator south of Kalgoorlie, producer of ferronickel and one of the lowest-cost producers which processes material purchased from third parties.
The smelter produces high-purity, low-carbon We transport concentrate from Leinster, Mt Keith and Kambalda ferronickel granules.
Production in FY2008 was 41,800 tonnes to our Kalgoorlie smelter, which processes it into nickel matte, of contained nickel, approximately 9,000 tonnes lower than containing approximately 68 per cent nickel.
In FY2008, FY2007s production principally due to an industrial stoppage we exported approximately 31 per cent of our nickel matte during FY2008.
Cerro Matoso has an estimated reserve life of production.
We processed the remaining nickel matte at our 42 years, based on current production levels.
We are considering Kwinana nickel refinery, which produces nickel metal in the options that would expand processing capacity significantly form of LME grade briquettes and nickel powder, together with see Development projects below.
Information on Stainless Steel Materials mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
This table should be read in conjunction with the production and reserve tables.
Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source NICKEL Leinster We own and operate the Production commenced in 1967.
Concentration plant with an operating mines at Leinster.
capacity of 3 mtpa of ore. 375 kilometres WMC purchased the Leinster nickel north of Kalgoorlie We hold 21-year leases over operations in 1988 from Mt Isa Mines Power at the Kambalda, Mt Keith, Leinster in Western Australia, the land from the Western and Western Selcast.
and Cliffs nickel operations and at the Australia Australian Government.
Kalgoorlie nickel smelter is primarily derived In June 2005, we gained control of The leases have expiry dates from on-site third party gas-fired turbines.
Open-cut and Nickel West Leinster, Mt Keith and Cliffs between 2009 and 2029.
Gas for these turbines is sourced by us underground mines as part of the acquisition of WMC.
Further renewals are at the from the North West Shelf gas fields.
The mine is accessible Governments discretion.
The existing gas supply contract terminates by governmentin October 2013. owned road and rail.
The gas is transported through the Nickel concentrate is Goldfields Gas Pipeline, pursuant to an shipped by rail to the agreement with Southern Cross Energy Kalgoorlie smelter.
34 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
indb 34 9 9 12 08 9:54:34 AM 12 08 9:54:34 AM Information on Stainless Steel Materials mining operations continued Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source NICKEL continued Cliffs We own and operate the Production commenced in 2008.
Power is currently sourced by diesel mine at Cliffs.
430 kilometres In June 2005, we gained control of north of Kalgoorlie We hold 21-year leases over Nickel West Leinster, Mt Keith and Cliffs in Western Australia, the land from the Western as part of the acquisition of WMC.
The leases have expiry dates Underground mine between 2025 and 2028.
The mine is accessible Further renewals are at the by  discretion.
Nickel ore is transported by road to the Leinster nickel operations for further processing.
Mt Keith We own and operate the The Mt Keith mine was officially Concentration plant with a capacity mine at Mt Keith.
commissioned in January 1995 of 11.5 mtpa of ore. 460 kilometres by WMC.
north of Kalgoorlie, We hold 21-year leases over Power is sourced from the same Western Australia, the land from the Western In June 2005, we gained control of supplier under the same conditions Australia Australian Government.
Nickel West Leinster, Mt Keith and Cliffs as the Leinster mine.
The leases have expiry dates as part of the acquisition of WMC.
The mine is accessible Further renewals are at the by private road.
Nickel concentrate is transported by road to Leinster nickel operations from where it is transported by public rail to Kalgoorlie smelter.
Ravensthorpe We own and operate the mine BHP Billiton announced approval of Ravensthorpes processing plant at Ravensthorpe.
the Ravensthorpe Nickel Development has a capacity of up to 50,000 tpa 155 kilometres Project in March 2004. of contained nickel and 1,400 tpa west of Esperance, We hold 21-year leases over of cobalt.
Western Australia, the land from the Western Ravensthorpe was officially opened Australia Australian Government.
Ravensthorpe is a fully integrated Expiry dates of the leases operation, providing its own power.
Open-cut mine Total project cost was $2,086 million.
Ravensthorpe Nickel Operation uses the The mine is accessible Further renewals are at the Enhanced Pressure Acid Leach EPAL by  discretion.
process, which combines pressure owned road.
acid leaching and atmospheric Mixed hydroxide leaching to recover nickel and cobalt precipitate is from laterite ores, producing a mixed transported by road hydroxide precipitate.
to the deepwater Port of Esperance, where it is then shipped by sea to BHP Billitons Yabulu Refinery.
Cerro Matoso We own 99.94% of CMSA.
Mining commenced in 1980 and nickel The ferronickel smelter and refinery are 0.06% is held by employees.
production started in 1982 under integrated with the mine.
Montelibano, Colombian Government, BHP Billiton Crdoba, Colombia Existing mining concession Beneficiation plant for the mine consists and Hanna Mining ownership.
rights are renewable in 2012 of a primary and secondary crusher, Open-cut mine with a 30-year extension period In 1989, we increased our ownership which is sent to a stacker for ore The mine is accessible until 2042.
Further extension to 53%, in 1997 to 99.8% and in 2007 stockpiling and blending.
Process design capacity is 50,000 tpa.
Land on which reserves In 1999, an expansion project to double Actual capacity depends on nickel grade are located is owned.
installed capacity was started, and in from the mine.
January 2001 the first metal was tapped Electricity is supplied from the national from this second line.
grid based on supply contracts negotiated for 5-year periods.
The existing electricity supply contract terminates in December 2010.
A pipeline supplies domestic natural gas for drier and kiln operation.
The existing gas supply contract terminates in November 2008.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 35 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
indb 35 9 9 12 08 9:54:34 AM 12 08 9:54:34 AM 2 INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY continued Information on Stainless Steel Materials smelters, refineries and processing plants Operation Ownership, operation Capacity and and location and title Plant type product power source NICKEL continued Kambalda We own and operate the Mill and concentrator plant producing The Kambalda concentrator has a capacity Kambalda nickel concentrator.
concentrate containing approximately of approximately 1.6 mtpa of ore. 56 kilometres 13% nickel.
south of Kalgoorlie, Ore is sourced through tolling Power arrangements are the same as Western Australia, and concentrate purchase for the Leinster mine see above.
Australia arrangements with third parties in the Kambalda region.
We hold 21-year leases over the land from the Western Australian Government.
The lease expiry dates range between 2010 and 2029.
Further renewals are at the governments discretion.
Kalgoorlie nickel We own and operate the The flash smelting process produces The Kalgoorlie smelter has a capacity smelter Kalgoorlie nickel smelter matte containing approximately of 110,000 tpa of nickel matte.
operation and hold freehold 68% nickel.
Kalgoorlie, Western Power arrangements are the same title over the property.
Australia, Australia as for the Leinster mine see above.
Kwinana nickel We own and operate the The refinery uses the Sherritt-Gordon The Kwinana nickel refinery has a refinery Kwinana nickel refinery ammonia leach process to convert capacity of approximately 65,000 tpa operation and hold freehold nickel matte from the Kalgoorlie of nickel metal.
30 kilometres south title over the property.
nickel smelter into LME-grade nickel of Perth, Western Power generated by Southern Cross briquettes and nickel powder.
Australia, Australia Energy in the goldfields is distributed The refinery also produces a number of across Western Powers network for use at intermediate products, including copper the Kwinana nickel refinery.
We purchase sulphide, cobalt-nickel sulphide and delivered gas for use at the Kwinana nickel ammonium sulphate.
This gas is sourced from North West Shelf gas fields and is transported by the Dampier to Bunbury natural gas pipeline and the Parmelia pipeline.
The existing gas supply contract terminates in October 2013.
Yabulu We own and operate Yabulu Yabulu consists of a laterite nickel The Yabulu refinery has an annual and hold freehold title over refinery and cobalt refinery.
production capacity of approximately 25 kilometres the refinery property.
76,000 tonnes of nickel and 3,200 tonnes northwest The Yabulu refinery has two major of cobalt.
of Townsville, The berth, ore handling sections.
We process nickel ore at the Queensland, facilities and fuel oil facilities front end section using a reduction Currently, we source power and steam Australia at the Townsville port are roast.
The reduced nickel ore is put from a combination of on-site coal-fired situated on long-term through an ammonia-ammonium and oil-fired boilers, electrical power leasehold land carbonate leaching process before from Ergon Energy and coal seam being combined with MHP at the back gas from AGL Energy Arrow Energy end section.
The mixture goes through 50% owners.
a solvent extraction process that was The existing gas supply contract developed and patented at the refinery.
The metal refining separates the nickel The existing coal supply contract and cobalt.
Our cobalt purification plant terminates in March 2011, but can produces a high-purity cobalt oxide be extended.
Development projects Cerro Matoso expansion options Perseverance Deeps We have undertaken conceptual studies on options for expanding production at Cerro Matoso, including building a third and fourth We are undertaking a feasibility study into extending the processing line and a heap leaching operation.
If we successfully life of the existing high-grade sulphide Perseverance mine complete feasibility studies and BHP Billiton Board approval is located at Leinster in Western Australia, by implementing given, these projects could result in Cerro Matosos capacity a block cave mining method below 1.1 kilometres depth.
more than doubling within 10 years.
If approved, the mine would deliver ore into the existing Nickel West infrastructure.
36 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
