Our exploration activities are organised from six principal offices 2.4 Marketing in Singapore, Perth Australia, Johannesburg South Africa, Our customer-centric marketing activities are centralised in Moscow Russia, Rio fide Janeiro Brazil and Vancouver Canada.
Singapore, The Hague and Antwerp.
The focus of the Singapore In addition to our activities focused on finding new world-class office is on the Asian energy market, base metals, stainless deposits, several of our CSGs undertake exploration, principally steel materials and on carbon steelmaking raw materials.
aimed at delineating and categorising mineral deposits near The emphasis in The Hague office is on aluminium, petroleum, existing operations, and advancing projects through the energy marketing and freight.
Our Antwerp office serves our development pipeline.
diamonds customers around the world.
In FY2008, we spent US$658 million on minerals exploration.
These three marketing offices incorporate all the functions Of this, US$212 million was spent on greenfield exploration, required to manage product marketing and distribution US$258 million was spent on brownfield exploration from point of production to final customer delivery.
In addition, including US$90 million for Olympic Dam expansion specialised marketers are located in 21 regional offices around and US$188 million was spent on more advanced projects.
Our product offering is enhanced by our freight capability and expertise in trading and transaction structuring.
2.6 Global Technology Energy Marketing Global Technology activities cover the full spectrum of our value Energy Marketing has the responsibility of coordinating our chain from exploration tools, mining and processing technologies marketing activities in the energy commodity markets, namely and environmental solutions through to ensuring our customers energy coal, European gas, emissions credits and electricity.
This have the technical support available in the use of our products.
group is based in The Hague and is part of our marketing function.
Global Technology activities cover the following areas: Energy Marketing is currently active in purchasing and selling exploration, mining and mine optimisation third party gas and small amounts of electricity in the UK and emissions credits in Europe.
Where required, Energy Marketing leaching and remediation also buys or sells pipeline capacity to transport gas onto the minerals separation and hydrometallurgy UK gas grid.
Most products are transacted over the counter and process engineering are  transactions in the wholesale market.
technical marketing Freight intellectual property We have a centralised ocean freight business that manages In partnership with our businesses we aim to understand our in-house freight requirements.
The primary purpose of the future trends and develop both existing and new technologies freight business is to create competitive advantages for internal that can identify, evaluate and maximise the value of deposits.
shipments through the procurement and operation of quality, Technical innovation is becoming increasingly important to cost-effective shipping and to contribute to our profitability by support our low-cost production strategy.
To maintain our trading freight and carrying complementary external cargoes.
reserves, we are currently developing technologies to treat The freight business participates primarily in the dry bulk sector complex lower-grade ores, technologies that will enable us aligned with our major trades, and it handles approximately to mine minerals at deeper levels, and tools to improve our 120 million tonnes of cargo per year making the Group one mine planning capabilities.
We also apply our knowledge and of the worlds largest users of dry bulk shipping.
At any one fundamental understanding of our products and how they time, we have approximately 120 ships employed.
The majority perform in the customers processes to best serve our chosen of vessels are chartered under commercial terms and we hold markets and provide innovative customer solutions.
In FY2008 equity interests in a small number of vessels.
External freight activities were mainly focused on executing R&D projects for revenue was US$1.4 billion for FY2008.
the businesses to support their expansion and growth strategies.
In addition to its freight management and trading activities, Global Technology has research and development centres in the freight business incorporates a skill base to manage its Australia Newcastle and Perth and South Africa Johannesburg.
marine risk and provide technical support.
It holds a number In FY2009 responsibility for Global Technology activities of marine-related investments, including a shareholding will transfer to CSGs and Group-wide Functions.
in shipping risk manager Rightships of Melbourne.
2.7 Resource and Business Optimisation 2.5 Minerals exploration Resource and Business Optimisation RBO is a group of Our exploration program is integral to our growth strategy and approximately 40 professionals that is responsible for leading is focused on identifying and capturing new world-class projects a range of internal processes that are designed to promote for future development, or projects that add significant value Group-wide excellence in developing, managing and optimising to existing operations.
Targets for exploration are generally our mineral resources.
The groups professionals include experts in large low-cost mining projects in a range of minerals, including geology and mineral evaluation, mining and process engineering, diamonds, copper, nickel, bauxite, iron ore, manganese, coal project management and research & development.
The process of discovery runs from early-stage functions encompass the business improvement processes that mapping through to drilling and evaluation.
The program we previously referred to under the Business Excellence banner.
is global and prioritises targets based on our assessment of the relative attractiveness of each mineral.
Our Group-wide procedures provide for RBO involvement at significant stages of the asset development and asset We continue to pursue opportunities and build our position acquisition processes, including resource evaluation and in prospective countries, including exploring for diamonds in mine planning.
Our procedures also embed RBOs involvement Angola and copper in the Democratic Republic of Congo DRC, in reviewing business processes and management frameworks Zambia, Kazakhstan, Chile and Australia.
In nickel, we have and implementing Group standards to drive operational and a major brownfield exploration program focused on finding management excellence at our operating assets.
new nickel sulphide deposits to sustain and grow our existing operations in Western Australia.
We are also actively exploring RBO also contains our reserve governance function, which for nickel in Southeast Asia, Russia, China and East Africa.
In the is responsible for our internal and external ore reserve bulk commodities, activities are focused on a smaller number of reporting processes.
highly prospective terrains in Australia, Southeast Asia, Russia, West and Central Africa and South America.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 53 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
