4 Chairman The biographical details of the Directors are set out in section 4.1 The Chairman, Mr Don Argus, is considered by the Board to be of this Report.
He was appointed Chairman of BHP Limited in 1999 and has been Chairman of the Group since 2001.
As Chairman, he is responsible for: Balance of non-executive and executive Directors ensuring that the principles and processes of the Board are maintained, including the provision of accurate, Independent timely and clear information non-executive Chairman encouraging debate and constructive criticism Executive setting agendas for meetings of the Board, in conjunction Director with the CEO and Group Company Secretary, that focus on the strategic direction and performance of our business leading the Board and individual Director performance assessments Other independent speaking and acting for the Board and representing non-executive Directors the Board to shareholders presenting shareholders views to the Board facilitating the relationship between the Board and the CEO.
3 Skills, knowledge, experience and attributes Mr Argus was Chairman of Brambles Limited, a company listed of Directors on the ASX, until 6 February 2008.
The Board considers that The Board considers that the executive and non-executive none of his other commitments set out in section 4.1 of this Directors together have the range of skills, knowledge and Report interfere with the discharge of his responsibilities experience necessary to enable them to effectively govern the to the Group.
The Board is satisfied that he makes sufficient business.
The non-executive Directors contribute international time available to serve the Group effectively.
and operational experience: understanding of the sectors in The Group does not have a Deputy Chairman but has identified which we operate: knowledge of world capital markets and Dr John Schubert to act as Chairman should the need arise an understanding of the health, safety, environmental and at short notice.
community challenges that we face.
The executive Director brings additional perspectives to the Boards work through 5.3.
5 Independence a deep understanding of the Groups business.
The Board considers that an appropriate balance between Directors must demonstrate unquestioned honesty and integrity, executive and non-executive Directors is necessary to promote a preparedness to question, challenge and critique and a shareholder interests and to govern the business effectively.
It is willingness to understand and commit to the highest standards committed to ensuring a majority of Directors are independent.
Each Director must ensure that no decision or action is taken that places his or her interests in front Process to determine independence of the interests of the business.
The Board has developed a policy that it uses to determine Directors commit to the collective decision-making processes the independence of its Directors.
This determination is carried of the Board.
Individual Directors are required to debate issues out annually or at any other time where the circumstances openly and constructively and be free to question or challenge of a Director change such as to warrant reconsideration.
A copy of the Policy on Independence of Directors is The Nomination Committee assists the Board in ensuring available at www.
that the Board is comprised of high-calibre individuals whose background, skills, experience and personal characteristics The Policy provides that the test of independence is whether will augment the present Board and meet its future needs.
the Director is: independent of management and any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the Director qualifications exercise of objective, unfettered or independent judgement by the Director or the Directors ability to act in the best interests of the BHP Billiton Group.
Science, 4 Directors Where a Director is considered by the Board to be independent but is affected by circumstances that may give rise to a perception that the Director is not independent, the Board has undertaken to explain the reasons why it reached its conclusion.
In applying Engineering, 4 Directors the independence test, the Board considers relationships with management, major shareholders, subsidiary and associated companies and other parties with whom the Group transacts Business Finance, 5 Directors business against predetermined materiality thresholds, all of which are set out in the Policy.
A summary of the factors that may be perceived to impact the independence of Directors is set out below.
Director industry background experience Energy, 4 Directors Manufacturing, 1 Director Banking Finance, 4 Directors Engineering, 1 Director Resources, 3 Directors BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 127 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
