2 INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY continued 2.11 Employees continued The table below provides a breakdown of our average number of employees by geographic location for each of the past three financial years.
2008 2007 2006 Australia 15,426 14,897 14,036 Southern Africa 10,860 11,414 10,793 South America 9,342 8,455 10,293 North America 2,994 2,898 2,567 Europe 606 586 589 Rest of the World 2,504 1,697 1,724 Total 41,732 39,947 40,002 Approximately 47 per cent of our labour force is covered by collective agreements and we believe that our relations with our employees are generally positive.
In the current year, we have had one significant strike at the Colombian Cerro Matoso operation in February 2008 relating to the renewal of the collective agreement.
Australian Foreign Investment Review Board FIRB conditions 2.12 Organisational structure The Treasurer of Australia approved the DLC merger subject 2.12.1 General to certain conditions, the effect of which was to require that, The BHP Billiton Group consists of the BHP Billiton Limited Group among other things, BHP Billiton Limited continues to: and the BHP Billiton Plc Group as a combined enterprise, following be an Australian company, which is managed from Australia: and the completion of the Dual Listed Companies DLC merger ultimately manage and control the companies conducting the in June 2001.
Refer to note 37 Subsidiaries in the financial business that was conducted by it at the time of the merger, for statements for a list of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc as long as those businesses form part of the BHP Billiton Group.
The conditions have effect indefinitely, subject to amendment The BHP Billiton DLC merger was designed to place shareholders of the Australian Foreign Acquisitions Takeover Act 1975 or of both companies in a position where they effectively have any revocation or amendment by the Treasurer of Australia.
an interest in a single group that combines the assets and are If BHP Billiton Limited no longer wishes to comply with these subject to the liabilities of both companies.
BHP Billiton Limited conditions, it must obtain the prior approval of the Treasurer.
and BHP Plc have each retained their separate corporate Failure to comply with the conditions attracts substantial identities and maintained separate stock exchange listings, penalties under the Act.
but they are operated and managed as if they are a single unified economic entity, with their boards and senior executive Equalisation of economic and voting rights management comprising the same people.
BHP Billiton Limited shareholders and BHP Billiton Plc 2.12.2 DLC structure shareholders have economic and voting interests in the The principles of the BHP Billiton DLC are reflected in the combined BHP Billiton Group.
The economic and voting BHP Billiton Sharing Agreement and include the following: interests represented by a share in one Company relative to the economic and voting interests of a share in the other Company the two companies are to operate as if they are a single unified is determined by reference to a ratio known as the Equalisation economic entity, through Boards of Directors that comprise the same individuals and a unified senior executive management, Ratio.
Presently, the economic and voting interests attached and to each BHP Billiton Limited share and each BHP Billiton Plc share are the same, since the Equalisation Ratio is 1:1.
The Equalisation the Directors of both companies will, in addition to their Ratio would change if either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc duties to the company concerned, have regard to the interests returned value to only its shareholders and no matching action of BHP Billiton Limited Shareholders and BHP Billiton Plc was taken.
Shareholders as if the two companies are a single unified economic entity and, for that purpose, the Directors of This means that the amount of any cash dividend paid by each company take into account in the exercise of their BHP Billiton Limited in respect of each BHP Billiton Limited powers the interests of the shareholders of the other, and share is normally matched by an equivalent cash dividend by certain DLC equalisation principles must be observed.
These are BHP Billiton Plc in respect of each BHP Billiton Plc share, and designed to ensure that for so long as the equalisation ratios vice versa.
If one Company has insufficient profits or is otherwise between a BHP Billiton Limited share and a BHP Billiton Plc unable to pay the agreed dividend, BHP Billiton Limited and share is 1:1, then the economic and voting interests in the BHP Billiton Plc will, as far as practicable, enter into such combined BHP Billiton Group resulting from the holding of one transactions as are necessary so as to enable both Companies BHP Billiton Limited share are equivalent to that resulting from to pay the amount of pre-tax dividends per share.
one BHP Billiton Plc share.
Further details are set out in the sub-section Equalisation of economic and voting rights below.
Additional documents which effect the DLC, include: BHP Billiton Limited Constitution BHP Billiton Plc Memorandum and Articles of Association BHP Billiton Special Voting Shares Deed BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee.
58 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
