2 INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY continued 2.2.
3 Aluminium Customer Sector Group We have interests in the Alumar integrated alumina refinery aluminium smelter and three stand-alone aluminium smelters: Our Aluminium business is a portfolio of assets at three stages Alumar of the aluminium value chain: we mine bauxite, we refine bauxite into alumina, and we smelt alumina into aluminium metal.
We We own 36 per cent of the Alumar refinery and 40 per cent are the worlds sixth-largest producer of aluminium, with total of the smelter.
The operations, production in FY2008 of approximately 1.3 million tonnes of and their integrated port facility, are located at Sao Luis in the aluminium.
We also produced approximately 16 million tonnes Maranhao province of Brazil.
Alumar sources bauxite from MRN.
of bauxite and 4.6 million tonnes of alumina.
Approximately 50 per cent of Alumars alumina production is used to feed the smelter, while the remainder is exported.
Approximately 55 per cent of our alumina production is used Our share of Alumars FY2008 saleable production was in our aluminium smelters and we sell the balance to other 535,000 tonnes of alumina and 178,000 tonnes of aluminium.
Our alumina sales are a mixture of long-term contract The Alumar refinery is currently undergoing a significant sales at LME-linked prices and spot sales at negotiated prices.
expansion see Development projects on page 27.
Prices for our aluminium sales are generally linked to prevailing Hillside and Bayside LME prices.
Our Hillside and Bayside smelters are located at Richards Bay, As with our other businesses, our strategy with bauxite and South Africa.
Hillsides capacity of approximately 704,000 tpa alumina is to own large, low-cost assets that provide good makes it the largest aluminium smelter in the southern returns through the investment cycle and provide us with options hemisphere, and it is one of the most efficient.
With aluminium smelters, where the closure of potlines B and C Bayside has smelting capacity of the availability and cost of power are critical, our investment approximately 96,000 tpa, but it also uses its own aluminium decisions have been driven in part by the availability of stranded and liquid aluminium from Hillside to produce a range of power generation capacity.
For example, both Hillside and Mozal value-added products such as rod, slab and extrusion.
Both were originally built when there was excess electricity generating operations import alumina from our Worsley refinery and capacity in southern Africa.
source power from Eskom, the South African state utility, We have interests in two sets of integrated bauxite mining under long-term contracts with prices linked to the LME price alumina refining assets: of aluminium except for Hillside Potline 3, the price for which is linked to the South African and US producer price indices.
Boddington Worsley The Boddington bauxite mine in Western Australia supplies In January 2008, Eskom determined that it had insufficient bauxite ore via a 51 kilometre long conveyor to the Worsley power to meet the national demand in South Africa, and alumina refinery.
Worsley is one of the largest and lowest-cost mandated an emergency 10 per cent reduction in power refineries in the world, and is currently undergoing a major consumption by many large industrial users, including expansion see Development projects below.
Our share of BHP Billiton.
Although our contracts with Eskom specify that Worsleys FY2008 production was 3.035 million tonnes of power supply to our aluminium smelters can only be interrupted alumina.
Worsleys export customers include our own Hillside, approximately one per cent of the time per calendar year, we Bayside and Mozal smelters in southern Africa.
Boddington have respected the emergency situation faced by the country has a reserve life of 24.5 years at current production rates.
and reduced our demand by the requested 10 per cent.
To We own 86 per cent of the mine and the refinery.
achieve this in the most economically efficient way, we have closed the B and C potlines at Bayside, reducing production Onverdacht Coermotibo Paranam there by approximately 92,000 tpa.
Across all three southern We own a 45 per cent interest in a joint venture that operates Africa smelters including Mozal, we expect production loss bauxite mines in the Onverdacht and Coermotibo areas of to be just over 120,000 tpa.
The production cuts occurred Suriname and the nearby Paranam alumina refinery.
We are primarily at Bayside, a 100 per cent BHP Billiton owned facility.
working on other mining options in the area to continue feeding A production sharing adjustment is currently being established Paranam after the current mines are exhausted.
Our share of between the Mozal partners 47.1 per cent BHP Billiton to Paranams FY2008 production was 983,000 tonnes of alumina.
compensate us for taking the majority of the power reduction We also own 14.8 per cent of Minerao Rio do Norte MRN at a 100 per cent owned facility.
which owns and operates a large bauxite mine in Brazil.
Mozal We own 47.1 per cent of and operate the Mozal aluminium smelter in Mozambique, which has a total capacity of approximately 563,000 tpa.
Mozal sources power generated by Eskom via Motraco, a transmission joint venture between Eskom and the national electricity utilities of Mozambique and Swaziland.
Tarriffs are fixed through to 2012 and will be linked to the LME aluminium price thereafter.
Our share of Mozals FY2008 production was 257,000 tonnes.
24 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
3 Aluminium Customer Sector Group continued Information on the Aluminium CSGs bauxite mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
This table should be read in conjunction with the production and reserve tables.
Name, location and Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source Boddington We own 86% of the Worsley The Boddington bauxite mine opened The mine has a crushing plant with bauxite mine joint venture.
The other in 1983 and was significantly extended the capacity of approximately 13 mtpa 14% interest is owned by in 2000. of bauxite.
Power is supplied from the 123 kilometres Sojitz Alumina Pty Ltd 4%, Worsley alumina refinery site via a joint southeast of Perth at and Japan Alumina Associates venture-owned powerline.
Boddington, Western Australia Pty Ltd 10%.
Australia, Australia A description of the Worsley alumina Worsley Alumina Pty Ltd is the refinery can be found in the table on Open-cut mine manager of the joint venture page 27.
The mine is accessible on behalf of the participants.
by sealed public Worsley Alumina Pty Ltd has roads.
The ore is the same ownership structure transported to as the Worsley joint venture.
Worsley alumina We hold a 2,656 square refinery via a kilometre mining lease 51 kilometre from the Western Australian overland conveyor.
government and two sub leases totalling 855 square kilometres from Alcoa of Australia Limited.
In 2004, we renewed the lease for a second 21-year term.
Suriname We own 45% of the refining The development of the Kaaimangrasie Kaaimangrasie mine has a nominal Kaaimangrasie mine and mining joint venture.
The mine started in November 2005. production capacity of approximately Onverdacht other 55% interest is held by Operations delivery of bauxite to 1.6 mtpa of bauxite: there are no Suralco a subsidiary of Alcoa the refinery commenced in July 2006. processing facilities at the mine.
38 kilometres World Alumina and Chemicals The mine is scheduled to be operated southeast of Electricity is sourced from Suralco and AWAC, a venture of Alcoa until 2011.
Paramaribo and fuel sourced from an external provider.
25 kilometres east of the Paranam We manage all mining operations.
refinery, Suriname Suralco holds the exploitation Open-cut mine licences, issued by the Government of Suriname, The mine is accessible over the Kaaimangrasie by a joint venturedeposit.
These licences owned haul road.
The ore is hauled by truck over a distance of 25 kilometres to the Paranam refinery.
Suriname We own 45% of the refining The development of the Klaverblad Klaverblad mine has a nominal production Klaverblad mine and mining joint venture.
Delivery capacity of approximately 1.4 mtpa of Onverdacht The other 55% interest of bauxite to the refinery commenced bauxite: there are no processing facilities is held by Suralco.
The mine is scheduled at the mine.
23 kilometres to be operated until 2011. southeast of We manage all mining operations.
Electricity is sourced from Suralco and Paramaribo and fuel sourced from an external provider.
Suralco holds the exploitation 13 kilometres east licences, issued by the of the Paranam Government of Suriname, refinery, Suriname over the Klaverblad deposit.
Open-cut mine These licences expire in 2032.
The mine is accessible by a joint ventureowned haul road.
The ore is hauled by truck over a distance of 12 kilometres to the Paranam refinery.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 25 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
indb 25 9 9 12 08 9:54:33 AM 12 08 9:54:33 AM 2 INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY continued Information on the Aluminium CSGs bauxite mining operations continued Name, location and Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source Suriname We own 45% of the The Coermotibo mine started Coermotibo mine has a nominal Coermotibo Coermotibo joint venture.
Remnants production capacity of 1.4 mtpa.
The other 55% interest mining will continue until July 2011.
There are primary crushing, beneficiation 150 kilometres is held by Suralco.
plant and barge loading facilities.
east of Paranam, Suriname We manage all mining operations.
Coermotibo generates its own electricity from power generators that run on Surface strip mine Suralco holds exploitation diesel fuel.
licences over the bauxite, The mine is accessible issued by the Government by joint ventureof Suriname.
These licences owned haul roads expire in 2032.
The ore is hauled to the Coermotibo crushing and loading facility and subsequently barged along the Commewijne River to the Paranam refinery.
MRN We own 14.8% of Minerao Production started in 1979 and MRN beneficiation facilities consist Rio do Norte S. A MRN.
the last expansion occurred in 2003. of a crushing unit and a washing unit Oriximina, State The other 85.2% is owned and a conveyor belt that transports of Par, Brazil by affiliates of Alcoa 18.2%, the ore between the two units.
Open-cut mine Rio Tinto 12%, Companhia The bauxite nominal production The mine is accessible Brasileira fide Alumnio CBA capacity is approximately 18 mtpa.
by joint venture- 10%, VALE 40% and Norsk MRN has its own power generation owned haul roads.
joint venture-owned MRN operates the mine.
railroad connects MRN holds valid mining the 28 kilometres rights granted by the Brazilian between the plant Federal Government to all its and the port.
reserves until exhaustion of the reserves.
Information on the Aluminium CSGs aluminium smelters and alumina refineries Operation Ownership, operation and location and title Plant type product Capacity Hillside aluminium We own and operate The Hillside smelter uses the Aluminium The nominal production capacity smelter the smelter.
Pechiney AP35 technology to produce of the smelter is 0.704 mtpa of standard aluminium ingots and primary aluminium.
Richards Bay, We hold freehold title over the aluminium T-Bars.
200 kilometres property, plant and equipment.
The plants power requirements are north of Durban, sourced from the national power supplier We have long-term leases KwaZulu-Natal Eskom under long-term contracts.
The over the harbour facilities.
province, prices in the contract for Hillside 1 and 2 South Africa are linked to the LME price for aluminium, while the prices for Hillside 3 are linked to the SA and US PPI.
Bayside aluminium We own and operate The Bayside smelter currently uses The nominal potline production capacity smelter the smelter.
Alusuisse pre-bake technology to is 0.095 mtpa of primary aluminium on produce primary aluminium.
Potlines the remaining Potline A. Richards Bay, We hold freehold title over the B and C were closed on 15 May 2008 200 kilometres property, plant and equipment.
The plants power requirements are sourced which used Soderberg self-bake north of Durban, from the national power supplier Eskom, We have long term leases over technology.
Bayside uses its own KwaZulu-Natal under a long-term contract with prices the harbour facilities.
aluminium and liquid aluminium province, linked to the LME price for aluminium.
acquired from Hillside to also South Africa produce a range of value added products, such as, rod, slab and extrusion.
Mozal aluminium We hold a 47.1% interest in The Mozal aluminium smelter uses the The nominal production capacity smelter the Mozal joint venture and Aluminium Pechiney AP35 technology of the smelter is 0.563 mtpa.
The other to produce standard aluminium ingots.
17 kilometres The plants power requirements are 52.9% is owned by Mitsubishi from Maputo, purchased from Motraco, under an 25%, Industrial Development Mozambique agreement that provides for a fixed tariff Corporation of South Africa for the majority of electricity through to Limited 24%, and the 2012 and LME-linked pricing thereafter.
The joint venture has a 50-year right to use the land, renewable for another 50 years under a government concession.
26 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
indb 26 9 9 12 08 9:54:33 AM 12 08 9:54:33 AM Information on the Aluminium CSGs aluminium smelters and alumina refineries continued Operation Ownership, operation and location and title Plant type product Capacity Worsley alumina We own 86% of this asset The Worsley alumina refinery uses the The nominal production capacity is refinery through the Worsley joint Bayer process to produce metallurgical 3.5 mtpa.
The other 14% is grade alumina, which is used as Approximately Power and steam needed for the refinery owned by Sojitz Alumina feedstock for aluminium smelting.
55 kilometres are provided by a joint venture-owned Pty Ltd 4%, and Japan northeast of Bunbury, on-site coal power station and a non-joint Alumina Associates Australia Western Australia, venture-owned on-site gas fired steam Pty Ltd 10%.
Worsley Alumina Pty Ltd is the manager of the joint venture on behalf of the participants.
Worsley Alumina Pty Ltd has the same ownership structure as the Worsley joint venture.
We hold a 2,480 hectare refinery lease from the Western Australian Government.
Paranam refinery We own 45% of the Paranam The Paranam alumina refinery Capacity is 2.2 mtpa.
The Paranam refinery joint venture.
The other 55% utilises the Bayer process to generates its own power.
Paranam, Suriname of the joint venture is owned produce metallurgical grade by Suralco.
alumina, which is used as feedstock for aluminium smelting.
Suralco manages the alumina refinery.
The joint venture holds freehold title to the property, plant and equipment, in a 45-55% split between the two joint venture partners.
Alumar The Alumar Consortium is an The alumina refinery and aluminium The refinery complex was last expanded unincorporated joint venture smelter use Alcoa technology to in June 2005, achieving annual capacity So Lus, Maranho, that holds the smelter, refinery, produce alumina and aluminium ingots.
Brazil ingot plant and support facilities.
The smelter has a nominal capacity We own 40% of the aluminium of approximately 0.45 mtpa of smelter.
The other 60% is owned primary aluminium.
by Alcoa Aluminio SA Alcoa.
The electricity requirements are supplied We own 36% of the alumina by Brazilian public power generation refinery.
The other 64% is concessionaire Electronorte, pursuant owned by Alcoa and its affiliate to a 20-year contract.
Abalco SA 35.1% and 18.9% respectively and Rio Tinto 10%.
The consortium comprises an integrated port, an alumina refinery and an aluminium smelter together with areas for the production of anodes and aluminium ingots.
All the above are freehold interests of the joint venture participants.
Development projects Guinea Alumina We have a one-third interest in a joint venture that is currently Alumar refinery expansion undertaking a feasibility study into the construction of a A project is underway to expand the production capacity of the 10 mtpa bauxite mine, a 3.3 mtpa alumina refinery and Alumar refinery by 2 mtpa to 3.5 mtpa 100 per cent capacity associated infrastructure approximately 110 kilometres at a cost of US$725 million our share.
The completion schedule from the port of Kamsar in Guinea.
and budget are currently under review following advice from the operator.
Bakhuis We are undertaking a feasibility study into a new bauxite mine in Worsley Efficiency and Growth Project the Bakhuis region of western Suriname and are in negotiations In May 2008, we announced approval for an expansion project with the Government of Suriname in order to obtain the to lift capacity of the Worsley refinery from 3.5 mtpa of alumina exploitation rights for the Bakhuis area.
to 4.6 mtpa 100 per cent capacity of alumina through expanded mining operations at Boddington, additional refinery capacity and upgraded port facilities.
The project is budgeted to cost US$1.9 billion our share and be completed in the first half of calendar 2011.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 27 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
