2 Operational information Our Board and Group Management Committee monitor a range of financial and operational performance indicators, reported on a monthly basis, to measure performance over time.
We also monitor a comprehensive set of health, safety, environment and community contribution indicators.
2008 2007 2006 People and Licence to operate Health, safety, environment and community a Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate TRIFR 5.9 7.4 8.7 a Voluntary community contribution US$M 141.0 103.4 81.3 Production Total petroleum products million barrels of oil equivalent 129.50 116.19 117.36 Alumina 000 tonnes 4,554 4,460 4,187 Aluminium 000 tonnes 1,298 1,340 1,362 Copper cathode and concentrate 000 tonnes 1,375.5 1,250.1 1,267.8 Nickel 000 tonnes 167.9 187.2 176.2 Iron ore 000 tonnes 112,260 99,424 97,072 Metallurgical coal 000 tonnes 35,193 38,429 35,643 Energy coal 000 tonnes 80,868 87,025 85,756 a Refer to section 10 Glossary for definitions.
in which the costs of imported equipment and services 1.5 Risk factors are determined.
The Australian dollar, South African rand, We believe that, because of the international scope of our Chilean peso, Brazilian real and US dollar are the most operations and the industries in which we are engaged, important currencies influencing our operating costs.
there are numerous factors which may have an effect Given the dominant role of the US currency in our affairs, on our results and operations.
The following describes the US dollar is the currency in which we present financial the material risks that could affect the BHP Billiton Group.
It is also the natural currency for borrowing and holding surplus cash.
We do not generally believe that Fluctuations in commodity prices may negatively impact active currency hedging provides long-term benefits to our our results shareholders.
We may consider currency protection measures The prices we obtain for our oil, gas, minerals and other appropriate in specific commercial circumstances, subject commodities are determined by, or linked to, prices in world to strict limits established by our Board.
Therefore, in any markets, which have historically been subject to substantial particular year, currency fluctuations may have a significant variations.
The Groups usual policy is to sell its products at the impact on our financial results.
The diversity provided by the Groups broad portfolio of commodities may not fully insulate the effects Failure to discover new reserves, maintain or enhance existing reserves or develop new operations could negatively affect of price changes.
Fluctuations in commodity prices can occur due to sustained price shifts reflecting underlying global our future results and financial condition economic and geopolitical factors, industry demand and supply The increased demand for commodities in recent years has balances, product substitution and national tariffs.
Additionally, resulted in existing reserves being depleted at an accelerated the volatility in prices for most of our commodities will occur.
Because our revenues and profits are related to our oil The synchronisation of global commodity markets and influence and gas and minerals operations, our results and financial of demand from China has in recent years impacted and conditions are directly related to the success of our exploration may continue to impact price volatility.
The impact on global and acquisition efforts, and our ability to replace existing economic growth, particularly in the developed economies, reserves.
The depletion of reserves has necessitated increased of the US sub-prime-induced global liquidity crisis may impact exploration adjacent to established operations and development demand and prices for commodities.
The influence of hedge of new operations in less-developed countries.
Additionally and other financial investment funds participating in commodity these activities may increase land tenure, infrastructure and markets has increased in recent years contributing to higher related political risks.
The rapid growth in demand for mining levels of price volatility.
The impact of potential longer-term and petroleum industry related technical skills, supplies and sustained price shifts and shorter-term price volatility creates critical equipment has led to shortages and delays in these the risk that our financial and operating results and asset values areas.
A failure in our ability to discover new reserves, will be materially and adversely affected by unforeseen declines enhance existing reserves or develop new operations in the prevailing prices of our products.
in sufficient quantities to maintain or grow the current level of our reserves could negatively affect our results, Our profits may be negatively affected by currency exchange financial condition and prospects.
rate fluctuations There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating Our assets, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a wide ore and oil and gas reserves and geological, technical and variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the economic assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation countries in which we operate.
Fluctuations in the exchange may change significantly when new information becomes rates of those currencies may have a significant impact on available.
Reserve restatements could negatively affect our financial results.
The US dollar is the currency in which our reputation, results, financial condition and prospects.
the majority of our sales are denominated.
Operating costs are influenced by the currencies of those countries where our mines and processing plants are located and also by those currencies BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 9 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
