2 INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY continued 2.2.
5 Diamonds and Specialty Products Customer We are also actively exploring for diamonds in a number Sector Group of areas, particularly in Angola where we hold substantial exploration acreage.
We believe there is significant potential Our Diamonds and Specialty Products CSG operates our in the diamonds business because of the increasing demand diamonds and titanium minerals businesses, and is managing for diamond jewellery and the lack of significant new diamond the development of a potentially substantial potash business.
We believe that our experience operating EKATI Diamonds provides us with a solid base for future operations.
The cornerstone of our diamonds business is the EKATI diamond Titanium minerals mine in the Northwest Territories of Canada, of which we own Our interest in titanium minerals consists of our 50 per cent 80 per cent.
EKATI has produced an average of 3.0 million effective interest in Richards Bay Minerals RBM in South Africa carats per year of rough diamonds over the last three years.
and our 90 per cent interest in the Corridor Sands mineral sands However, the grade of ore we process fluctuates from year project in Mozambique see Development projects below.
to year, resulting in variations in carats produced.
In addition, RBM is one of the largest and lowest-cost producers of titania the proportion of our production consisting of high-value carats slag, high-purity pig iron, rutile and zircon from mineral sands.
larger and or higher-quality stones and low-value carats Approximately 90 per cent of the titanium dioxide slag produced smaller and or lower-quality stones will fluctuate from year by RBM is suitable for the chloride process of titanium dioxide to year.
Production at EKATI continues to transition from pigment manufacture and is sold internationally under a variety predominantly open-pit to a mix of open-pit and underground of short, medium and long-term contracts.
The other 50 per cent mining.
During FY2008, we completed the Koala underground of RBM is owned by Rio Tinto.
mine ahead of schedule and under budget.
EKATI has a number of development options for future open-pit and underground In July 2008, RBM announced the signing of a Memorandum mines to extend the life of the operation.
The mine life based of Understanding for a 26 per cent broad-based black economic on current reserves and rate of production is 11 years.
A consortium including investors, local communities and employees has been identified.
Negotiations Annual sales from EKATI 100 per cent terms represent around with the selected parties to agree the terms of the transaction 2.7 per cent of current world rough diamond supply by weight are ongoing.
We sell most of our rough diamonds to international diamond buyers through our Antwerp sales office.
Potash We also sell a smaller amount of our diamond production to two We believe that sound industry fundamentals, driven by rising Canadian manufacturers based in the Northwest Territories.
demand for fertilisers, together with the resource attributes We also sell polished diamonds, manufactured through contract and capital-intensive nature of greenfield potash developments, polishing arrangements, through our CanadaMark and make potash a suitable commodity for our portfolio.
acquired substantial exploration acreage in the province of Saskatchewan, Canada, home to the largest and most productive potash basin in the world.
We are currently studying development alternatives see Development projects below.
Information on Diamonds and Specialty Products mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
This table should be read in conjunction with the production and reserve tables.
Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source DIAMONDS EKATI Diamond We own an 80% interest in Construction began in 1997 and The processing plant consists of crushers, Mine the Core Zone joint venture, production from the first open-cut washers scrubber and grinder and heavy which includes the existing was initiated in 1997.
The mine and media separator.
The diamond recovery 310 kilometres operations.
The remaining processing plant began operation process makes use of magnetics and X-ray northeast of 20% interest is held by in mid 1998. sorters.
Nameplate capacity is 9,000 tonnes Yellowknife, two individuals.
Northwest In October 2001, we acquired Dia Met Territories, Canada We also own a 58.8% interest Minerals Ltd, bringing our interest in the All the electric power is generated by in the Buffer Zone joint venture, Core Zone and Buffer Zone joint ventures our Company-owned and operated diesel Beartooth and Fox are made up predominantly up to 80% and 58.8% respectively.
In addition, there is storage open-cut mines and of exploration targets.
for approximately 90 million litres of diesel Panda and Koala are Current active mines include two fuel on-site.
We are the operators of open-cut Beartooth and Fox and two the mines.
underground mines Panda and Koala.
The mines are accessible year round Tenure is secured through by contracted aircraft.
ownership of mining leases granted by the Government Road access is of Canada.
Mining leases available for have been granted for approximately reserves until 2017.
10 weeks per year via an ice road.
32 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
indb 32 9 9 12 08 9:54:34 AM 12 08 9:54:34 AM Information on Diamonds and Specialty Products mining operations continued Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source TITANIUM MINERALS Richards Bay RBM comprises two legal Richards Bay Minerals was formed in Mining is conducted largely by sand dredge Minerals entities, Tisand Pty Ltd and 1976 to mine and beneficiate the sands mining, with minor supplementary dry Richards Bay Iron and Titanium in the coastal dunes.
Gravity separation is then utilised Four beach sand Pty Ltd. Our share is 51% to produce a heavy mineral concentrate.
dredge mines 10 to The mining operations were expanded and 49.45% respectively.
The This concentrate is then trucked to a central 50 kilometres north to five, with the last mine added in 2000. remaining 49% and 50.55% are processing plant to produce the finished of Richards Bay, In 2006, this was reduced to four, with held by Rio Tinto.
The overall products, being rutile and zircon and KwaZulu-Natal, the closure of one mining pond.
net income is shared equally.
the ilmenite for smelter feed.
South Africa RBM management The smelter processes the ilmenite to The mine is accessible independently operates the produce titanium dioxide slag, with a via public rail, road joint venture on behalf of titanium dioxide of approximately 85% and port.
The rail between the RBM holds long-term renewable The nominal titanium slag capacity mine site, harbour leases from the state of is 1.06 mtpa.
and shipping facilities South Africa.
are owned by The power for the operation is purchased Spoornet and Portnet These leases are subject to the from the South African grid.
both government South African Mining Charter business enterprises and must be lodged for a supplying services on conversion to a New Order behalf of the state.
Mining Right by no later than The roads accessing 30 April 2009 refer to section the smelter are 2.8 Government regulations.
Development projects Corridor Sands We are working on a pre-feasibility study for the Corridor Sands titanium minerals project in the Gaza province of southern Mozambique, which we acquired in the WMC transaction.
Potash We are working on a pre-feasibility study for the Jansen project, a potentially substantial greenfield potash mine in the province of Saskatchewan, Canada.
The Jansen project envisages the development of an underground mining operation, processing plant and associated infrastructure.
While we are conducting the Jansen pre-feasibility study, we plan to pursue other potash projects in the region.
EKATI expansions We are working on pre-feasibility and concept studies for developments at EKATI.
Because of the nature of the kimberlite pipes in which diamonds are found, individual pipes are relatively short-lived, so we are continually working on options to bring new pipes on-stream.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 33 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
