Our results were outstanding in the context of a challenging 1.3 Chief Executive Officers Report supply environment which was characterised by unexpected BHP Billiton shareholders can look back on the 2008 financial disruptions, rising input prices, skills shortages and the year with a real sense of pride in what weve achieved and further devaluation of the US dollar.
Our strong performance in the performance of our people.
demonstrates the power of our uniquely diversified and high-margin portfolio across the energy, steelmaking Since my appointment as CEO in October 2007, we have continued and non-ferrous product suites.
to follow our strategy to own and operate world-class assets across a diverse range of mineral, metal and energy products, Given this future growth pipeline, you may question why we focused on the upstream end of the production process.
From are pursuing a combination with Rio Tinto.
Within our industry, the combination of our strategy, the efforts of our people and the two companies are uniquely complementary, and, as such, a favourable commodity price environment, we have been able we believe a combined company would unlock synergies and to deliver record financial performance.
provide greater value than the two companies can provide separately.
BHP Billiton does not need Rio Tinto to have a great While we can report financial success, I regret to report we have future, but we believe the two companies combined will be not performed well on safety.
In FY2008, 11 of our employees better placed to meet the worlds future need for our products.
Many more lives will have been impacted, some forever, by these tragic and avoidable events.
We have reflected We have a critical role in providing the raw materials for deeply on what more we must do to reach our goal of Zero Harm.
growth that so many economies need: economies going In FY2009, we are making even greater efforts to improve our through industrialisation and urbanisation on a scale safety performance.
and intensity not experienced before.
We are resourcing the future.
Despite turbulent global economic conditions, we continue to see enormous opportunity for the Company.
While continuing I have been fortunate to take the helm of a well-run business, to further our existing strategy, we have refined our operational focused on its customers needs, with a great team responding focus in order to give maximum clarity of responsibility to well to the opportunities for our sector.
In a years time, our operating units.
We are also embracing the concept of I hope to report we have been able to improve our Company simplicity even more deeply, ensuring that we focus our effort even further.
and resources on key opportunities and value drivers.
For our shareholders, this means the Company is easier to understand, more focused and more valuable.
In the past year, our strategy has produced stronger annual production in 13 of our commodities, with record production Marius Kloppers in seven of those.
This was achieved in an environment of Chief Executive Officer industry-wide supply disruptions and input cost pressures.
Our strong track record of project delivery also continued through the year, enabling, for example, our Western Australia Iron Ore business to post an eighth consecutive annual production record.
A record performance in our Petroleum business reflected the successful commissioning of three new major projects.
We expect volume growth from our Petroleum business to continue at around 10 per cent a year, a significant value creator at a time of historically high oil prices.
Ten major projects, spanning five commodities, started production during the year.
The Board approved a further seven for development, bringing our total number of projects in either execution or feasibility to 28, representing an expected capital investment of US$24.8 billion.
We also have other medium-term growth options with expected capital commitments in excess of US$90 billion, spanning our existing commodity range and beyond.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 7 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
