Corporate Directory BHP BILLITON GROUP BHP BILLITON MARKETING OFFICES REGISTERED OFFICES CORPORATE CENTRES The Netherlands Verheeskade 25 BHP BILLITON LImITeD South Africa 2521 BE The Hague 6 Hollard Street Australia Johannesburg 2001 BHP Billiton Centre Telephone 31 70 315 6666 180 Lonsdale Street Telephone 27 11 376 9111 Facsimile 31 70 315 6767 Melbourne VIC 3000 Facsimile 27 11 376 3302 Singapore Telephone 1300 55 47 57 within Australia Chile 168 Robinson Road #10-01 61 3 9609 3333 outside Australia Avenida Americo Vespucio Sur # 100, Capital Tower Facsimile 61 3 9609 3015 9th Floor Singapore 068912 Las Condes Telephone 65 6349 3333 BHP BILLITON PLC Santiago Facsimile 65 6349 4000 United Kingdom Telephone 56 2 330 5000 Neathouse Place Belgium Facsimile 56 2 207 6509 London SW1V 1BH BHP Billiton Diamonds Belgium N. V. United States Hoveniersstraat 30 Telephone 44 20 7802 4000 1360 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 150 2018 Antwerp Facsimile 44 20 7802 4111 Houston, TX 77056-3030 Telephone 32 3 201 1090 Telephone 1 713 961 8500 Facsimile 1 713 961 8400 This document is issued subject to the Important Notices businesses of BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto and to realise expected synergies from that combination, the presence of a competitive proposal in relation appearing below.
to Rio Tinto, satisfaction of any conditions to any proposed transaction, The Directors of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton including the receipt of required regulatory and anti-trust approvals, accept responsibility for the information contained in this report.
Having Rio Tintos willingness to enter into any proposed transaction, the successful taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case, the information completion of any transaction, and the risk factors discussed in BHP Billitons contained in this report is, to the best of the knowledge and belief of the and Rio Tintos filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC Directors of BHP Billiton, in accordance with the facts and contains no including in Annual Reports on Form 20-F which are available at the SECs omission likely to affect its import.
Save as required by law or the rules of the Subject to the above, neither BHP Billiton nor any of its Directors, officers, UK Listing Authority and the London Stock Exchange, the UK Takeover Panel, employees or advisers nor any other person makes any representation or or the listing rules of ASX Limited, BHP Billiton undertakes no duty to update warranty, express or implied, as to, and accordingly no reliance should any forward-looking statements in this presentation.
be placed on, the fairness, accuracy or completeness of the information Information Relating to the US Offer for Rio Tinto plc contained in the report or of the views given or implied.
To the extent permitted by law, neither BHP Billiton nor any of its Directors, officers, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton plan to employees or advisers nor any other person shall have any liability register the offer and sale of securities it would issue to Rio Tinto plc whatsoever for any errors or omissions or any loss howsoever arising, US shareholders and Rio Tinto plc ADS holders by filing with the US directly or indirectly, from any use of this information or its contents or Securities and Exchange Commission the SEC a Registration Statement otherwise arising in connection therewith.
Information about Rio Tinto plc the Registration Statement, which will contain a prospectus the and Rio Tinto Limited Rio Tinto is based on public information which Prospectus, as well as other relevant materials.
No such materials have has not been independently verified.
This communication is not a substitute for any Registration Statement or Prospectus that BHP Billiton may file with the SEC.
This report is for information purposes only and does not constitute or form part of any offer for sale or issue of any securities or an offer or invitation US INVESTORS AND US HOLDERS OF RIO TINTO PLC SECURITIES AND ALL to purchase or subscribe for any such securities, nor shall it or any part HOLDERS OF RIO TINTO PLC ADSs ARE URGED TO READ ANY REGISTRATION of it be relied on in connection with, any contract or investment decision, STATEMENT, PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER DOCUMENTS MADE AVAILABLE nor does it constitute a proposal to make a takeover bid or the solicitation TO THEM AND OR FILED WITH THE SEC REGARDING THE POTENTIAL of any vote or approval in any jurisdiction, nor shall there be any sale of TRANSACTION, AS WELL AS ANY AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS TO securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would THOSE DOCUMENTS, WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION.
of any such jurisdiction or under an exemption from such requirements.
Investors and security holders will be able to obtain a free copy of the No offering of securities shall be made into the United States except Registration Statement and the Prospectus as well as other relevant pursuant to registration under the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended, documents filed with the SEC at the SECs website http: www.
gov, or an exemption therefrom.
Neither this report nor any copy of it may be once such documents are filed with the SEC.
Copies of such documents may taken or transmitted or distributed or redistributed directly or indirectly also be obtained from BHP Billiton without charge, once they are filed with in Japan.
The distribution of this document in other jurisdictions may be the SEC.
restricted by law and persons into whose possession this document comes Information for US Holders of Rio Tinto Limited Shares should inform themselves about, and observe, any such restrictions.
BHP Billiton Limited is not required to, and does not plan to, prepare and No statement concerning expected cost savings, revenue benefits file with the SEC a registration statement in respect of the Rio Tinto Limited and resulting incremental EBITDA and EPS accretion in this report should Offer.
Accordingly, Rio Tinto Limited shareholders should carefully consider be interpreted to mean that the future earnings per share of the enlarged the following: BHP Billiton Group for current and future financial years will necessarily match or exceed the historical or published earnings per share of BHP Billiton, The Rio Tinto Limited Offer will be an exchange offer made for the and the actual estimated cost savings and revenue benefits and resulting securities of a foreign company.
Such offer is subject to disclosure EBITDA enhancement may be materially greater or less than estimated.
requirements of a foreign country that are different from those of the United States.
Financial statements included in the document will be Certain statements in this presentation are forward-looking statements prepared in accordance with foreign accounting standards that may not including statements regarding contribution synergies, future cost savings, be comparable to the financial statements of United States companies.
the cost and timing of development projects, future production volumes, increases in production and infrastructure capacity, the identification of Information Relating to the US Offer for Rio Tinto plc and the additional mineral Reserves and Resources and project lives and, without Rio Tinto Limited Offer for Rio Tinto shareholders located in the US limitation, other statements typically containing words such as intends, It may be difficult for you to enforce your rights and any claim you may expects, anticipates, targets, plans, estimates and words of similar have arising under the US federal securities laws, since the issuers are import.
These statements are based on current expectations and beliefs and located in a foreign country, and some or all of their officers and Directors numerous assumptions regarding BHP Billitons present and future business may be residents of foreign countries.
You may not be able strategies and the environments in which BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto will to sue a foreign company or its officers or Directors in a operate in the future and such assumptions, expectations and beliefs may or foreign court for violations of the US securities laws.
It may may not prove to be correct and by their nature, are subject to a number of be difficult to compel a foreign company and its affiliates known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, to subject themselves to a US courts judgement.
performance and achievements to differ materially.
You should be aware that BHP Billiton may purchase Factors that could cause actual results or performance to differ materially securities of either Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements include, otherwise than under the exchange offer, such as in but are not limited to, BHP Billitons ability to successfully combine the open market or privately negotiated purchases.
Designed by Amanda Roach Design, printed in Australia by Gunn and Taylor.
