4 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE continued John Schubert BCh Eng, PhD Chem Eng, FIEAust, FTSE, 65 and Managing Director of Esso Australia Limited and President of the Business Council of Australia.
Term of office: Director of BHP Limited since June 2000 and a Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since Other directorships and offices current and recent : June 2001.
Dr Schubert was last re-elected in 2006 and Ch airman of Commonwealth Bank of Australia since is retiring and standing for re-election in 2008.
November 2004 and Director since October 1991 Independent: Yes Director of Qantas Airways Limited since October 2000 Chairman of G2 Therapies Pty Limited since November 2000 Skills and experience: John Schubert has considerable Former Chairman and Director of Worley Parsons Limited experience in the international oil industry, including at CEO from November 2002 until February 2005 level.
He has had executive mining and financial responsibilities and was CEO of Pioneer International Limited for six years, where Board Committee membership: he operated in the building materials industry in 16 countries.
Chairman of the Sustainability Committee He has experience in mergers, acquisitions and divestments, Member of the Nomination Committee project analysis and management.
He was previously Chairman Group Company Secretary Skills and experience: Prior to joining BHP Billiton, Jane McAloon held the position of Company Secretary and Group Manager Jane McAloon BEc Hons, LLB, GDipGov, FCIS, 44 External and Regulatory Services in the Australian Gas Light Term of office: Jane McAloon was appointed Group Company Company.
She previously held various State and Commonwealth Secretary in July 2007 and joined the BHP Billiton Group in government positions, including Director General of the NSW September 2006 as Company Secretary for BHP Billiton Limited.
Ministry of Energy and Utilities and Deputy Director General for the NSW Cabinet Office, as well as working in private legal practice.
She is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries.
4.2 Group Management Committee Marius Kloppers BE Chem, MBA, PhD Materials Science, 46 Alberto Calderon PhD Econ, M Phil Econ Yale University, JD Law, BA Econ Andes University, 48 Chief Executive Officer and executive Director Group Executive and Chief Commercial Officer Chairman of the Group Management Committee Member of the Group Management Committee Marius Kloppers has been active in the mining and resources Alberto Calderon joined the Group as President Diamonds and industry since 1993 and was appointed Chief Executive Officer Specialty Products in February 2006 and has been in his current in October 2007.
He was previously Chief Commercial Officer, position since July 2007.
Prior to this, he was Chief Executive Chief Marketing Officer, Group Executive of Billiton Plc, Officer of Cerrejn Coal Company from July 2002.
His previous Chief Executive of Samancor Manganese and held various positions include President of Ecopetrol, President of the Power positions at Billiton Aluminium, among them Chief Operating Company of Bogot and various senior roles in investment Officer and General Manager of Hillside Aluminium.
banking and in the Colombian Government.
Marcus Randolph BSc, MBA Harvard Business School, 52 Alex Vanselow BComm, Wharton AMP, 46 Group Executive and Chief Financial Officer Group Executive and Chief Executive Ferrous and Coal Member of the Group Management Committee and Chairman Member of the Group Management Committee of the Investment Review Committee and Financial Risk Marcus Randolph was previously Chief Organisation Development Management Committee Officer, President Diamonds and Specialty Products, Chief Alex Vanselow joined the Group in 1989 and was appointed Development Officer Minerals and Chief Strategic Officer Minerals President Aluminium in March 2004 and appointed Chief Financial for BHP Billiton.
His prior career includes Chief Executive Officer, Officer in March 2006.
He was previously Chief Financial Officer First Dynasty Mines, Mining and Minerals Executive, Rio Tinto plc, of Aluminium, Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer Director of Acquisitions and Strategy, Kennecott Inc, General of Orinoco Iron CA and Manager Accounting and Control BHP Manager Corporacion Minera Nor Peru, Asarco Inc, and various Iron Ore. His prior career was with Arthur Andersen.
He has been mine operating positions in the US with Asarco Inc.
He has been in his current position since April 2006. in his current position since October 2005.
Karen Wood BEd, LLB Hons, FCIS, 52 J Michael Yeager BSc, MSc, 55 Group Executive and Chief People Officer Group Executive and Chief Executive Petroleum Member of the Group Management Committee Member of the Group Management Committee and Chairman of the Global Ethics Panel Mike Yeager joined the Group in April 2006 as Group President Karen Woods previous positions with BHP Billiton were Energy.
He was previously Vice President, ExxonMobil Development Chief Governance Officer, Group Company Secretary and Company with responsibility for major joint venture projects.
Special Adviser and Head of Group Secretariat.
She is a member Other previous roles include Senior Vice President, Imperial Oil Ltd of the Takeovers Panel Australia, a Fellow of the Institute and Chief Executive Officer, Imperial Oil Resources, Vice President of Chartered Secretaries and a member of the Law Council Africa, ExxonMobil Production Company, Vice President Europe, of Australia and the Law Institute of Victoria.
Before joining ExxonMobil Production Company and President, Mobil Exploration BHP Billiton, she was General Counsel and Company Secretary and Production in the US.
He has been in his current position for Bonlac Foods Limited.
She has been in her current position since May 2006. since December 2005.
122 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
