The Board is free to alter the matters reserved for its decision, 5.2 Shareholder engagement subject to the limitations imposed by the constitutional The Board represents the Groups shareholders and is documents and the law.
accountable to them for creating and delivering value through Beyond those matters, the Board has delegated all authority to the effective governance of the business.
Shareholders vote on achieve the Corporate Objective to the CEO, who is free to take important matters affecting the business, including the election all decisions and actions which, in the CEOs judgement, are of Directors, changes to our constitutional documents, the receipt reasonable having regard to the limits imposed by the Board.
of annual financial statements and incentive arrangements for The CEO remains accountable to the Board for the authority executive Directors.
that is delegated, and for the performance of the business.
Shareholders are encouraged to make their views known to us The Board monitors the decisions and actions of the CEO and and to raise directly any matters of concern.
The Chairman has the performance of the business to gain assurance that progress regular meetings with institutional shareholders and investor is being made towards the Corporate Objective, within the limits representatives to discuss governance matters and keeps the it has imposed.
The Board also monitors the performance of Board informed of the views and concerns that have been raised.
the Group through its Committees.
Reports from each of the The Chief Executive Officer CEO, Chief Financial Officer CFO Committees are set out in section 5.5. and investor relations team meet regularly with institutional The CEO is required to report regularly in a spirit of openness shareholders to discuss our strategy, financial and and trust on the progress being made by the business.
and its Committees determine the information required from the The Dual Listed Company structure means that Annual General CEO and any employee or external party, including the External Meetings of BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited are Auditor.
Open dialogue between individual members of the held in the United Kingdom and Australia around late October Board and the CEO and other employees is encouraged to and November, respectively, each year.
Shareholders are enable Directors to gain a better understanding of our business.
encouraged to attend the Annual General Meetings and Key activities during the year to use these opportunities to ask questions.
Questions can be registered prior to the meeting by completing the relevant The most important task undertaken by the Board during form accompanying the Notice of Meeting or by emailing the the year was to consider, and approve, the offers for Rio Tinto.
Questions that The offers are discussed in more detail in section 1 of this Report.
have been lodged ahead of the meeting, and the answers The Board also considered other major business decisions, to them, are posted to our website.
The External Auditor including capital projects and capital management strategies.
attends the Annual General Meetings and is available to answer Examples of capital projects approved by the Board are: questions.
Shareholders may appoint proxies electronically The Klipspruit Project, part of the Groups Energy Coal through our website.
The Notice of Meeting describes how operations in South Africa.
This project includes expanding this can be done.
the capacity of the Klipspruit opencast mine 100 per cent Proceedings at shareholder meetings and important briefings BHP Billiton owned from 4.8 million tonnes per annum mtpa to 8 mtpa.
The Board approved capital expenditure of are broadcast live from our website.
Copies of the speeches delivered by the Chairman and CEO to the Annual General approximately US$450 million.
Meetings, a summary of the proceedings and the outcome Bass Strait Kipper, a project to produce new supplies of natural of voting on the items of business are posted to our website gas and liquids through new and existing Bass Strait facilities.
The Board approved capital expenditure of approximately US$500 million.
5.3 Board of Directors The Board is satisfied that it has discharged its obligations as set out in the Board Governance Document.
2 Membership The Boards role is to represent the shareholders and it is accountable to them for creating and delivering value through The Board currently has 13 members.
Of these, 12, including the effective governance of the business.
the Chairman, are independent non-executive Directors.
The non-executive Directors are considered by the Board The Board has published a Board Governance Document, which is to be independent of management and free from any business a statement of the practices and processes the Board has adopted relationship or other circumstance that could materially interfere to discharge its responsibilities.
It includes the processes the with the exercise of objective, unfettered or independent Board has implemented to undertake its own tasks and activities: judgement.
Further information on the process for assessing the matters it has reserved for its own consideration and decisionindependence is in section 5.3.
Mr Charles Goodyear retired making: the authority it has delegated to the CEO, including the from the Board on 30 September 2007 and Dr David Brink retired limits on the way in which the CEO can execute that authority: from the Board on 28 November 2007.
Dr David Morgan joined and provides guidance on the relationship between the Board the Board on 1 January 2008, and Mr Alan Boeckmann and and the CEO.
Mr Keith Rumble joined the Board on 1 September 2008.
The Board Governance Document can be found The Directors of the Group are: at www.
Mr Don Argus AO Chairman Mr Marius Kloppers The matters that the Board has specifically reserved for its Mr Paul Anderson decision are: Mr Alan Boeckmann the appointment of the CEO and approval of the appointments of direct reports to the CEO Dr John Buchanan approval of the overall strategy and annual budgets Mr Carlos Cordeiro of the business Mr David Crawford determination of matters in accordance with the The Hon E Gail fide Planque Approvals Framework Dr David Jenkins formal determinations that are required by the Groups Dr David Morgan constitutional documents, by statute or by other Mr Jacques Nasser AO external regulation.
Mr Keith Rumble Dr John Schubert BHP BILLITON PLC CONCISE ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 33 5604 BHPB Concise Sec 5-BC.
