2 INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY continued 2.2.
9 Metallurgical Coal Customer Sector Group together with the Hay Point terminal.
We own 80 per cent of the South Walker Creek and Poitrel mines, with Mitsui and Co. Our Metallurgical Coal CSG is the worlds largest supplier of owning the other 20 per cent.
All of these operations are seaborne metallurgical coal.
Along with iron ore and manganese, managed by a BHP Billiton-Mitsubishi joint venture company metallurgical coal is a key input in the blast furnace production of known as BMA.
steel, and, as a result, demand for metallurgical coal is exposed to the booming Chinese steel industry and the fast-growing Indian We export Bowen Basin metallurgical coal, under long-term steel industry.
or annual volume contracts with prices negotiated yearly.
Our customers are steel producers around the world, We have production assets in two major resource basins, the particularly in north Asia and India.
Bowen Basin in Central Queensland, Australia and the Illawarra region of New South Wales, Australia.
We will shortly begin During the third quarter of FY2008, north Queensland was Stage 1 development in a third significant basin at Maruwai affected by two episodes of unusually heavy rain and flooding.
on the Indonesian island of Kalimantan.
As a result, mining operations were temporarily suspended, and we were forced to declare force majeure on our sales Bowen Basin contracts from late January until early June 2008.
Production has recovered strongly and operations are now almost back Compared to competitive coal producing regions, the Bowen Basin is extremely well positioned to supply the seaborne to full capacity.
Total attributable production in FY2008 was approximately 27.9 million tonnes, compared with market because of: 31.5 million tonnes in FY2007.
As a result of the delayed its high-quality metallurgical coals, which are more efficient deliveries, we will be delivering approximately 1.4 million tonnes in blast furnace use of coal during the first quarter of FY2009 at the substantially the relatively low cost of production because of its extensive lower Japanese fiscal year 2007 prices.
near-surface deposits its geographical proximity to Asian customers.
Illawarra We enjoy access to key infrastructure, including a modern, We own and operate three underground coal mines in integrated electric rail network and our own coal loading terminal the Illawarra region of New South Wales, which primarily at Hay Point, Mackay.
This infrastructure enables us to maximise supply metallurgical coal to the nearby BlueScope Port Kembla steelworks under long-term volume contracts with annually throughput and blending products from multiple mines to optimise the value of our production and satisfy customers.
Total production in FY2008 was approximately 7.3 million tonnes.
Our Bowen Basin mines are owned through a series of joint ventures.
We share 50-50 ownership with Mitsubishi Production figures for both the Bowen Basin and Illawarra include some energy coal less than 7 per cent and Development Pty Ltd of the Goonyella Riverside, Peak Downs, Saraji, Norwich Park, Blackwater and Gregory Crinum mines, 12 per cent, respectively.
Information on Metallurgical Coal mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
The tables should be read in conjunction with the production and reserves tables.
Name, location, Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source Central Queensland We own 50% of the CQCA joint Goonyella mine, which commenced All coal is beneficiated at on-site Coal Associates joint venture.
Mitsubishi owns the in 1971, merged with the adjoining processing facilities, which have venture other 50%.
Riverside mine in 1989 and is operated a combined capacity in excess as the Goonyella Riverside mine.
Bowen Basin, BMA operates the mines.
Reserves at the Riverside mine were Queensland, Australia Power is sourced from the State Leases for the CQCA mines have depleted in 2005. of Queenslands electricity grid.
Goonyella Riverside, expiry dates between 2008 and Peak Downs commenced production in 2037 and are renewable for Peak Downs, Saraji, 1972.
Saraji mine commenced production such further periods as the Norwich Park and in 1974.
Norwich Park commenced Queensland Government Blackwater are production in 1979. allows.
Blackwater mine commenced production Broadmeadow The joint venture holds in 1967.
South Blackwater and is a longwall additional undeveloped leases Blackwater mines were integrated from underground mine.
The mines are Broadmeadow, an underground mine accessible by public developed on the Goonyella mining road.
All coal is lease, commenced longwall operations transported on in August 2005. government-owned railways to the port of Hay Point near Mackay incorporating CQCAs Hay Point Coal Terminal and the Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal and the port of Gladstone.
42 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
indb 42 9 9 12 08 9:54:35 AM 12 08 9:54:35 AM Information on Metallurgical Coal mining operations continued Name, location, Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source Gregory joint venture We own 50% of the Gregory The Gregory mine became operational All coal is beneficiated at on-site processing joint venture.
Mitsubishi in 1979. facilities, which have a combined capacity Bowen Basin, Development Pty Ltd owns in excess of 5 mtpa.
Queensland, Crinum mine commenced longwall the other 50%.
Power is sourced from the State BMA operates the mines.
Gregory is an open-cut mine.
Leases have expiry dates between 2013 and 2027, and Crinum is a longwall are renewable for such further underground mine.
periods as the Queensland The mines are Government allows.
All coal is transported on government-owned railways to the port of Hay Point near Mackay incorporating CQCAs Hay Point Coal Terminal and the Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal and the port of Gladstone.
BHP Mitsui Coal joint We own 80% of the BHP Mitsui The joint venture commissioned South Walker Creek coal is beneficiated at venture Coal joint venture.
Mitsui and Riverside, an open-cut mine, in 1983. on-site processing facilities with a capacity Co owns the other 20%.
Reserves were depleted in 2005. to produce 3.8 mtpa of coal.
Bowen Basin, Queensland, Australia BMA manages the mines, South Walker Creek became operational Poitrel mine has entered into a joint venture which are operated through in 1996, producing pulverised coal agreement with the adjacent Millennium South Walker Creek independent contractors.
injection PCI product and minor Coal mine to share coal processing and and Poitrel are quantities of by-product energy coal.
Poitrel has access open-cut mines.
Leases have expiry dates to 3.0 mtpa capacity from the processing between 2008 and 2020, and Construction for the Poitrel mine The mines are facilities.
are renewable for such further commenced in early 2006 and first coal accessible by public periods as the Queensland was produced in October 2006.
The mine Power is sourced from the State of road.
All coal is Government allows.
has a production capacity of 3.0 mtpa Queenslands electricity grid.
transported on of metallurgical and PCI coals.
government-owned The joint venture holds railways to the port of additional undeveloped Hay Point near Mackay leases in the Bowen Basin.
incorporating CQCAs Hay Point Coal Terminal and the Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal.
Illawarra Coal We are owner and operator Appin commenced in 1962 with longwall Coal is beneficiated at two processing of the Illawarra Coal mines.
mining starting in 1969. facilities with a capacity to produce Illawarra, New South approximately 8.0 mtpa.
Wales, Australia Leases have expiry dates West Cliff was commissioned in 1976. between 2010 and 2026, with Power is sourced from the State Underground mines Elouera opened in 1993.
Reserves were renewal rights under the NSW of New South Wales electricity grid.
In December All the mines are Mining Act 1992 for periods 2007, the mine was sold to Gujarat accessible by public of 21 years.
All coal is transported by road or Dendrobium Mine opened in FY2005.
on government-owned railways to our major customer, BlueScope Steels Port Kembla steelworks or to Port Kembla for shipping.
Bowen Basin Expansions Development projects Maruwai Lampunut BMA is investigating a number of brownfield and greenfield expansion options in the Bowen Basin.
The most advanced Maruwai is a large, high-quality, metallurgical coal deposit in of these are Daunia, which is in feasibility and Caval Ridge, in Central and East Kalimantan provinces of Indonesia.
Daunia would produce 3 mtpa and is located to approval has been given for the Stage 1 development of the the east of the Poitrel mine, and Caval Ridge would be a 5.5 mtpa Maruwai metallurgical coal basin for a capital investment mine to the north of the Peak Downs mine.
Both developments of approximately US$100 million.
would include coal handling preparation plants.
BMA is also The initial development project is the Haju open-cut mine considering the expansion of existing operations to add 2.5 mtpa and associated river port.
The Haju mine is a small, discrete to Peak Downs and up to 9 mtpa at Goonyella Riverside.
coal deposit that is expected to initially produce 1 mtpa of In addition, BMA is in the process of finalising an agreement metallurgical coal, with expansion potential to 2 mtpa.
First to acquire the New Saraji exploration project from New Hope for production is expected mid-2009.
A feasibility study is currently approximately US$1 billion BHP Billiton share.
The agreement underway for development of a 3-5 mtpa coal mine at the is subject to regulatory and third party approval.
New Saraji larger Lampunut deposit at Maruwai.
is located to the east of the Saraji mine.
The deal includes a 10 mtpa entitlement at Abbott Point port expansion.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 43 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
