5 Independence continued The Board maintains the view that this previous employment history does not interfere with his objective, unfettered or Tenure independent judgement or affect his ability to act in the best The Board has a policy requiring non-executive Directors who interests of the Group.
have served on the Board for nine years or more to stand for Some of the Directors hold or previously held positions in annual re-election.
These Directors must undergo a formal companies with which we have commercial relationships.
performance assessment as must all other Directors standing for Those positions and companies are set out in section 4.1 of this re-election before the Board determines whether to recommend Report.
The Board has assessed all of the relationships between their re-election.
Mr Don Argus and Mr David Crawford have the Group and companies in which Directors hold or held served on the Board for more than nine years and will therefore positions and concluded that in all cases, the relationships do not stand for re-election at the 2008 Annual General Meetings.
interfere with the Directors exercise of objective, unfettered or The Board does not believe that either of these Directors has independent judgement or their ability to act in the best interests served for a period that could materially interfere with their of our business.
A specific instance is Mr Alan Boeckmann, who ability to act in the best interests of the Group.
The Board also was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2008, and who is believes that they have retained independence of character and the Chairman and CEO of Fluor Corporation.
BHP Billiton has judgement and have not formed associations with management commercial dealings with Fluor Corporation, which operates in the or others that might compromise their ability to exercise engineering, procurement, construction and project management independent judgement or act in the best interests of the Group.
Prior to appointing Mr Boeckmann as a Director, the Board assessed the relationships between BHP Billiton and Fluor Length of tenure of non-executive Directors Corporation, and was satisfied that Mr Boeckmann would be able to apply objective, unfettered and independent judgement and Over 9 years, 2 Directors act in the best interests of the BHP Billiton Group notwithstanding his role with Fluor Corporation.
Transactions during the year that amounted to related-party transactions with Directors or 69 years, 2 Directors Director-related entities under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS are outlined in note 32 Related party transactions to the financial statements.
Mr Don Argus and Mr Jacques Nasser hold cross-directorships 36 years, 2 Directors as they are both members of the International Advisory Board of Allianz Aktiengesellschaft.
The Board has assessed these 03 years, 6 Directors relationships and concluded that the relationships do not interfere with the Directors exercise of objective, unfettered or independent judgement or the Directors ability to act Retirement plan in the Groups best interests.
The former Directors of BHP Limited Mr Don Argus, Mr David Crawford, Dr David Jenkins and Dr John Schubert participated Executive Director in a retirement plan approved by shareholders in 1989.
The plan The executive Director, Mr Marius Kloppers, is not considered was closed on 24 October 2003 and benefits accrued to that independent because of his executive responsibilities.
Mr Kloppers date, together with interest earned on the benefits, have been does not hold directorships in any other company included in the preserved and will be paid on retirement.
The Board does not ASX 100 or FTSE 100. believe that the independence of any participating Director is compromised as a result of this plan.
6 Senior Independent Director The Board has appointed Dr John Buchanan as the Senior Relationships and associations Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc in accordance with the Mr David Crawford was the National Chairman of KPMG in UK Combined Code.
Dr Buchanan is available to shareholders Australia.
He retired in June 2001 and has no ongoing relationship who have concerns that cannot be addressed through the with KPMG.
KPMG was a joint auditor of Billiton Plc prior to Chairman, CEO or CFO.
the merger with BHP Limited and of BHP Billiton up to 2003 and the sole auditor of BHP Billiton from December 2003.
7 Terms of appointment considers this matter on an annual basis and does not consider The Board has adopted a letter of appointment that contains Mr Crawfords independence to be compromised.
The Board the terms on which non-executive Directors will be appointed, considers Mr Crawfords financial acumen to be important including the basis upon which they will be indemnified.
in the discharge of the Boards responsibilities.
Accordingly, his membership of the Board and Chairmanship of the Risk and A copy of the letter is available at Audit Committee is considered by the Board to be appropriate www.
In June 2006, the Board reappointed former Chief Executive 5.3.
8 Induction and training Officer Mr Paul Anderson as a non-executive Director.
Before Each new non-executive Director undertakes an induction appointing Mr Anderson, the Board considered his independence program specifically tailored to their needs.
in light of the Policy on Independence of Directors, the UK Combined Code and the ASX Corporate Governance Council A copy of an indicative induction program is available Principles and Recommendations.
Each of these include that at www.
a measure of independence is whether a Director is a former executive.
The Policy on Independence of Directors and the Non-executive Directors participate in the Boards training and UK Combined Code use a five-year timeframe, while the ASX development program, which has been designed to ensure that Corporate Governance Council uses a benchmark of three years non-executive Directors update their skills and knowledge to between leaving executive office and joining the board.
The maximise their effectiveness as Directors throughout their tenure.
Board considers Mr Anderson to be independent.
At the time of his appointment as non-executive Director, almost four years had elapsed since Mr Anderson had retired as Chief Executive Officer.
BHP BILLITON PLC CONCISE ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 35 5604 BHPB Concise Sec 5-BC.
