NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Accounting policies Dual Listed Companies structure and basis of preparation Treatment of the DLC merger for accounting purposes of financial statements The basis of accounting for the DLC merger was established under Australian and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP, Merger terms pursuant to the requirements of the Australian Securities and On 29 June 2001, BHP Billiton Plc previously known as Billiton Plc, Investments Commission ASIC Practice Note 71 Financial Reporting a UK listed company, and BHP Billiton Limited previously known by Australian Entities in Dual-Listed Company Arrangements, an as BHP Limited, an Australian listed company, entered into a Dual order issued by ASIC under section 340 of the Corporations Act 2001 Listed Companies DLC merger.
This was effected by contractual on 2 September 2002, and in accordance with the UK Companies Act arrangements between the Companies and amendments to their 1985.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 AASB 1 constitutional documents.
First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, The effect of the DLC merger is that BHP Billiton Plc and its the same basis of accounting is applied under International Financial subsidiaries the BHP Billiton Plc Group and BHP Billiton Limited Reporting Standards.
Accordingly, these financial statements and its subsidiaries the BHP Billiton Limited Group operate together consolidate the Group as follows: as a single economic entity the Group.
Under the arrangements: Results for the years ended 30 June 2008, 30 June 2007 and the shareholders of BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited 30 June 2006 are of the consolidated entity comprising the have a common economic interest in both Groups BHP Billiton Plc Group and the BHP Billiton Limited Group the shareholders of BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited Assets and liabilities of the BHP Billiton Plc Group and the take key decisions, including the election of Directors, through BHP Billiton Limited Group were consolidated at the date a joint electoral procedure under which the shareholders of of the merger at their existing carrying amounts the two Companies effectively vote on a joint basis Financial statements of the BHP Billiton Limited single parent BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited have a common Board entity are presented in note 38 to the financial statements.
of Directors, a unified management structure and joint objectives Financial statements of the BHP Billiton Plc single parent entity dividends and capital distributions made by the two Companies are presented on page 236 of the Annual Report.
The full financial are equalised report of the BHP Billiton Limited single parent entity is available BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited each executed a deed on the Companys website www.
com and is available poll guarantee, guaranteeing subject to certain exceptions to shareholders on request, free of charge.
the contractual obligations whether actual or contingent, primary or secondary of the other incurred after 29 June 2001 Basis of preparation together with specified obligations existing at that date This general purpose financial report for the year ended 30 June 2008 If either BHP Billiton Plc or BHP Billiton Limited proposes to pay has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the UK a dividend to its shareholders, then the other Company must pay Companies Act 1985 and Australian Corporations Act 2001 and with: a matching cash dividend of an equivalent amount per share to its Australian Accounting Standards, being Australian equivalents shareholders.
If either Company is prohibited by law or is otherwise to International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the unable to declare, pay or otherwise make all or any portion of such Australian Accounting Standards Board AASB and interpretations a matching dividend, then BHP Billiton Plc or BHP Billiton Limited will, effective as of 30 June 2008 so far as it is practicable to do so, enter into such transactions with International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations as each other as the Boards agree to be necessary or desirable so as adopted by the European Union EU effective as of 30 June 2008 to enable both Companies to pay dividends as nearly as practicable International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations as at the same time.
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board effective as of 30 June 2008 The DLC merger did not involve the change of legal ownership of those standards and interpretations adopted early for each any assets of BHP Billiton Plc or BHP Billiton Limited, any change applicable reporting period as described below of ownership of any existing shares or securities of BHP Billiton Plc The above standards and interpretations are collectively referred or BHP Billiton Limited, the issue of any shares or securities or to as IFRS in this report.
any payment by way of consideration, save for the issue by each Company of one special voting share to a trustee company which The principal standards that have been adopted for the first time is the means by which the joint electoral procedure is operated.
in these financial statements are: IFRS 7 AASB 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
IFRS 7 AASB 7 modifies the basis and details of disclosures concerning financial instruments, but does not impact the recognition or measurement of financial instruments Amendment to IAS 1 AASB 101 Presentation of Financial Statements.
This amendment requires new disclosures concerning the objectives, policies and processes for managing capital AASB 2007-4 Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards arising from ED 151 and Other Amendments.
AASB 2007-4 reinstates optional accounting treatments permitted by IFRS that were not initially available under Australian Accounting Standards.
Refer Change in accounting policy below for the impact of the adoption of AASB 2007-4 on the financial statements BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 169 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
Accounting policies continued The following standards and interpretations may have an impact Change in accounting policy on the Group but are not yet effective.
These standards and The accounting policies have been consistently applied by all interpretations are available for early adoption in the 30 June 2008 entities included in the Group consolidated financial report and financial year other than in the EU but have not been applied are consistent with those applied in all prior years presented, except in the preparation of these financial statements: for the impact of adopting AASB 2007-4 Amendments to Australian IFRIC 12 AASB Interpretation 12 Service Concession Accounting Standards arising from ED 151 and Other Amendments.
Arrangements addresses accounting for obligations undertaken AASB 2007-4 reinstates optional accounting treatments permitted and the rights received in service concession arrangements by IFRS that were not initially available under Australian Accounting by service concession operators Standards.
The principal impacts of AASB 2007-4 are described below.
IFRIC 14 AASB Interpretation 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Proportionate consolidation Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction provides guidance on how to assess the limit As permitted by AASB 2007-4 Amendments to Australian on the amount of the surplus that can be recognised as an asset Accounting Standards arising from ED 151 and Other Amendments for Defined Benefit Funds in IFRS 19 AASB 119 Employee Benefits and IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures, the Group has adopted Amendment to IFRS 2 AASB 2 Share-based Payment modifies the policy of recognising its proportionate interests in the assets, the definition of vesting conditions and broadens the scope liabilities, revenues and expenses of jointly controlled entities of accounting for cancellations within each applicable line item of the financial statements.
All such Amendment to IFRS 3 AASB 3 Business Combinations.
interests were previously recognised using the equity method.
The This amendment modifies the application of acquisition Group believes the change in policy to proportionate consolidation accounting for business combinations.
Associated amendments of jointly controlled entities provides more relevant information to IAS 27 AASB 127 Consolidated and Separate Financial about the financial performance and financial position of the Group.
Statements change the accounting for non-controlling interests Following this change in policy, comparative information has been IFRS 8 AASB 8 Operating Segments specifies the basis restated for all periods included in these financial statements, with and details of disclosure concerning operating segments the impact summarised below.
There was no impact on profit after Amendment to IAS 27 AASB 127 Consolidated and Separate taxation, profit attributable to members of the Group, total equity or Financial Statements results in the removal of the definition of the Groups earnings per share in the current or comparative periods.
the cost method resulting in all dividends being recognised as income as well as prescribing accounting for new non-operating holding companies Improvements to IFRSs 2008 AASB 2008-5 Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards arising from the Annual Improvements Project and AASB 2008-6 Further Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards arising from the Annual Improvements Project include a collection of minor amendments to IFRS The potential impacts on the financial statements of the Group of adopting these standards and interpretations have not yet been determined.
Except for IFRS 8 AASB 8 Operating Segments none of the above have been endorsed by the EU and hence are not available for early adoption in the EU.
Basis of measurement The financial report is drawn up on the basis of historical cost principles, except for derivative financial instruments and certain other financial assets which are carried at fair value.
Currency of presentation All amounts are expressed in millions of US dollars, unless otherwise stated, consistent with the predominant functional currency of the Groups operations.
170 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
Accounting policies continued Consolidated Income Statement Year ended 30 June 2007 Year ended 30 June 2006 Restated Published Restated Published US$M US$M US$M US$M Revenue 47,473 39,498 39,099 32,153 Other income 621 588 1,229 1,227 Expenses excluding net finance costs 28,370 26,352 24,612 22,403 Share of profits from jointly controlled entities 4,667 3,694 Net finance costs 512 390 600 505 Total taxation expense 5,716 4,515 4,582 3,632 Profit after taxation 13,496 13,496 10,534 10,534 Consolidated Balance Sheet 30 June 2007 Restated Published US$M US$M Current and non-current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 2,449 1,937 Trade and other receivables 6,881 5,499 Other financial assets 1,958 1,968 Inventories 3,910 3,409 Investments in jointly controlled entities 4,924 Property, plant and equipment 42,261 36,705 Intangible assets 713 615 Deferred tax assets 2,832 2,810 Other assets 400 301 Total assets 61,404 58,168 Current and non-current liabilities: Trade and other payables 5,277 4,869 Interest bearing liabilities 12,420 10,643 Other financial liabilities 1,250 1,107 Current tax payable 2,193 2,102 Deferred tax liabilities 2,260 1,822 Provisions 7,242 6,860 Deferred income 844 847 Total liabilities 31,486 28,250 Net assets Total equity 29,918 29,918 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Year ended 30 June 2007 Year ended 30 June 2006 Restated Published Restated Published US$M US$M US$M US$M Net operating cash flows 15,957 15,595 11,325 10,476 Net investing cash flows 8,313 7,624 6,143 5,512 Net financing cash flows 6,609 6,843 5,552 5,412 Cash flow presentation The Group has also elected to adopt the indirect method of cash flow presentation as permitted by AASB 2007-4 Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards arising from ED 151 and Other Amendments and IAS 7 Cash Flow Statements.
The Group believes this change in presentation more effectively conveys the relationship between its financial performance and operating cash flows.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 171 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
Accounting policies continued Principles of consolidation Goodwill The financial report of the Group includes the consolidation Where the fair value of consideration paid for a business acquisition of BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their respective exceeds the fair values attributable to the Groups share of subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by either parent the identifiable net assets acquired, the difference is treated entity.
Control exists where either parent entity has the power as purchased goodwill.
Where the fair value of the Groups to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as share of the identifiable net assets exceeds the cost of acquisition, to obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are included in the difference is immediately recognised in the income statement.
the consolidated financial report from the date control commences Goodwill is not amortised, however its carrying amount is assessed until the date control ceases.
Where the Groups interest is less annually against its recoverable amount as explained below under than 100 per cent, the interest attributable to outside shareholders Impairment of non-current assets.
On the subsequent disposal is reflected in minority interests.
The effects of all transactions or termination of a previously acquired business, any remaining between entities within the Group have been eliminated.
balance of associated goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal or termination.
Joint ventures Intangible assets The Group undertakes a number of business activities through joint ventures.
Joint ventures are established through contractual Amounts paid for the acquisition of identifiable intangible assets, arrangements that require the unanimous consent of each of the such as software and licences, are capitalised at the fair value venturers regarding the strategic financial and operating policies of of consideration paid and are recorded at cost less accumulated the venture joint control.
The Groups joint ventures are of two types: amortisation and impairment charges.
Identifiable intangible assets with a finite life are amortised on a straight-line basis over their Jointly controlled entities expected useful life, which is typically no greater than eight years.
A jointly controlled entity is a corporation, partnership or other entity The Group has no identifiable intangible assets for which the in which each participant holds an interest.
A jointly controlled entity expected useful life is indefinite.
operates in the same way as other entities, controlling the assets Foreign currencies of the joint venture, earning its own income and incurring its own liabilities and expenses.
Interests in jointly controlled entities are The Groups reporting currency and the functional currency of the accounted for using the proportional consolidation method, whereby majority of its operations is the US dollar as this is the principal the Groups proportionate interest in the assets, liabilities, revenues currency of the economic environments in which they operate.
and expenses of jointly controlled entities are recognised within each Transactions denominated in foreign currencies currencies other applicable line item of the financial statements.
The share of jointly than the functional currency of an operation are recorded using controlled entities results is recognised in the Groups financial the exchange rate ruling at the date of the underlying transaction.
statements from the date that joint control commences until Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies the date at which it ceases.
are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at year end and the gains or losses on retranslation are included in the income Jointly controlled assets and operations statement, with the exception of foreign exchange gains or losses on The Group has certain contractual arrangements with other foreign currency provisions for site closure and rehabilitation, which participants to engage in joint activities that do not give rise to are capitalised in property, plant and equipment for operating sites.
These arrangements involve the joint ownership of assets dedicated to the purposes of each venture Exchange variations resulting from the retranslation at closing rate but do not create a jointly controlled entity as the venturers directly of the net investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures arising after derive the benefits of operation of their jointly owned assets, 1 July 2004 are accounted for in accordance with the policy stated rather than deriving returns from an interest in a separate entity.
Exchange variations arising before this date were transferred to retained earnings at the date of transition to IFRS.
The financial report of the Group includes its share of the assets in such joint ventures, together with the liabilities, revenues Subsidiaries and joint ventures that have functional currencies other and expenses arising jointly or otherwise from those operations.
than US dollars translate their income statement items to US dollars All such amounts are measured in accordance with the terms at the date of each transaction.
Assets and liabilities are translated of each arrangement, which are usually in proportion to the at exchange rates prevailing at year end.
Exchange variations Groups interest in the jointly controlled assets.
resulting from the retranslation at closing rate of the net investment in such subsidiaries and joint ventures, together with differences Business combinations between their income statement items translated at actual and Business combinations occurring after 1 July 2004 are accounted for closing rates, are recognised in the foreign currency translation in accordance with the policy stated below.
For the purpose of foreign currency translation, the net prior to this date have been accounted for in accordance with the investment in a foreign operation is determined inclusive of foreign Groups previous policies under UK GAAP and Australian GAAP currency intercompany balances for which settlement is neither and have not been restated.
planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
The balance of the foreign currency translation reserve relating to a foreign Business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase operation that is disposed of, or partially disposed of, is recognised method of accounting, whereby the purchase consideration of in the income statement at the time of disposal.
the combination is allocated to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities identifiable net assets on the basis Share-based payments of fair value at the date of acquisition.
Mineral rights that can The fair value at grant date of equity settled share awards granted be reliably valued are recognised in the assessment of fair values on or after 8 November 2002 is charged to the income statement on acquisition.
Other potential mineral rights for which values over the period for which the benefits of employee services are cannot be reliably determined are not recognised.
The corresponding accrued employee entitlement is recorded in the employee share awards reserve.
The fair value of awards is calculated using an option pricing model which considers the following factors: exercise price expected life of the award current market price of the underlying shares expected volatility expected dividends risk-free interest rate market-based performance hurdles 172 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
Accounting policies continued For equity settled share awards granted on or before 7 November Administration costs that are not directly attributable to a specific 2002 and that remained unvested at 1 July 2004, the estimated exploration area are charged to the income statement.
Licence costs cost of share awards is charged to the income statement from grant paid in connection with a right to explore in an existing exploration date to the date of expected vesting.
The estimated cost of awards area are capitalised and amortised over the term of the permit.
is based on the market value of shares at the grant date or the Exploration and evaluation expenditure including amortisation intrinsic value of options awarded, adjusted to reflect the impact of capitalised licence costs is charged to the income statement of performance conditions, where applicable.
as incurred except in the following circumstances, in which case Where awards are forfeited because non-market based vesting the expenditure may be capitalised: conditions are not satisfied, the expense previously recognised In respect of minerals activities: is proportionately reversed.
Where shares in BHP Billiton Limited the exploration and evaluation activity is within an area of or BHP Billiton Plc are acquired by on-market purchases prior to interest which was previously acquired in a business combination settling vested entitlements, the cost of the acquired shares is and measured at fair value on acquisition, or where the existence carried as treasury shares and deducted from equity.
When awards of a commercially viable mineral deposit has been established.
are satisfied by delivery of acquired shares, any difference between In respect of petroleum activities: their acquisition cost and the remuneration expense recognised the exploration and evaluation activity is within an area is charged directly to retained earnings.
The tax effect of awards of interest for which it is expected that the expenditure granted is recognised in income tax expense, except to the extent will be recouped by future exploitation or sale: or that the total tax deductions are expected to exceed the cumulative at the balance sheet date, exploration and evaluation activity remuneration expense.
In this situation, the excess of the associated has not reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment current or deferred tax is recognised in equity as part of the of the existence of commercially recoverable reserves.
Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure considered to be tangible is recorded as a component of property, plant and Sales revenue equipment at cost less impairment charges.
Otherwise, it is recorded Revenue from the sale of goods and disposal of other assets is as an intangible asset such as licences.
As the asset is not available recognised when persuasive evidence, usually in the form of an for use, it is not depreciated.
All capitalised exploration and executed sales agreement, or an arrangement exists, indicating evaluation expenditure is monitored for indications of impairment.
there has been a transfer of risks and rewards to the customer, no Where a potential impairment is indicated, assessment is performed further work or processing is required by the Group, the quantity for each area of interest in conjunction with the group of operating and quality of the goods has been determined with reasonable assets representing a cash generating unit to which the exploration accuracy, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is is attributed.
Exploration areas at which reserves have been reasonably assured.
This is generally when title passes.
discovered but that require major capital expenditure before In the majority of sales for most commodities, sales agreements production can begin are continually evaluated to ensure that specify that title passes on the bill of lading date, which is the date commercial quantities of reserves exist or to ensure that additional the commodity is delivered to the shipping agent.
For these sales, exploration work is under way or planned.
To the extent that revenue is recognised on the bill of lading date.
For certain sales capitalised expenditure is not expected to be recovered it is principally coal sales to adjoining power stations and diamond charged to the income statement.
sales, title passes and revenue is recognised when the goods Cash flows associated with exploration and evaluation expenditure have been delivered.
comprising both amounts expensed and amounts capitalised In cases where the terms of the executed sales agreement allow are classified as investing activities in the cash flow statement.
for an adjustment to the sales price based on a survey of the Development expenditure goods by the customer for instance an assay for mineral content, recognition of the sales revenue is based on the most recently When proved reserves are determined and development is determined estimate of product specifications.
sanctioned, capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is reclassified as Assets under construction, and is disclosed as For certain commodities, the sales price is determined on a a component of property, plant and equipment.
All subsequent provisional basis at the date of sale: adjustments to the sales price development expenditure is capitalised and classified as Assets subsequently occurs based on movements in quoted market or under construction.
Development expenditure is net of proceeds contractual prices up to the date of final pricing.
The period between from the sale of ore extracted during the development phase.
provisional invoicing and final pricing is typically between 60 and On completion of development, all assets included in Assets 120 days.
Revenue on provisionally priced sales is recognised based under construction are reclassified as either Plant and equipment on the estimated fair value of the total consideration receivable.
The revenue adjustment mechanism embedded within provisionally priced sales arrangements has the character of a commodity Property, plant and equipment derivative.
Accordingly, the fair value of the final sales price Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated adjustment is re-estimated continuously and changes in fair depreciation and impairment charges.
Some assets acquired prior value recognised as an adjustment to revenue.
In all cases, to 1 July 1998 are measured at deemed cost, being the revalued fair value is estimated by reference to forward market prices.
amount of the asset immediately prior to that date.
Subsequent to 1 July 1998, the cost regime was applied to all assets.
Cost is Revenue is not reduced for royalties and other taxes payable the fair value of consideration given to acquire the asset at the from the Groups production.
time of its acquisition or construction and includes the direct cost The Group separately discloses sales of Group production from of bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for sales of third party products due to the significant difference operation and the direct cost of dismantling and removing the asset.
in profit margin earned on these sales.
Disposals are taken to account in the income statement.
Where the disposal involves the sale or abandonment of a significant business Exploration and evaluation expenditure or all of the assets associated with such a business the gain or Exploration and evaluation activity involves the search for mineral loss is disclosed as an exceptional item.
and petroleum resources, the determination of technical feasibility and the assessment of commercial viability of an identified resource.
Exploration and evaluation activity includes: researching and analysing historical exploration data gathering exploration data through topographical, geochemical and geophysical studies exploratory drilling, trenching and sampling determining and examining the volume and grade of the resource surveying transportation and infrastructure requirements conducting market and finance studies BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 173 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
Accounting policies continued Other mineral assets If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is impaired and an impairment loss is charged to the Other mineral assets comprise: income statement so as to reduce the carrying amount in the Capitalised exploration, evaluation and development expenditure balance sheet to its recoverable amount.
including development stripping for properties now in production Mineral rights and petroleum interests acquired Fair value is determined as the amount that would be obtained Production stripping as described below in Overburden from the sale of the asset in an arms length transaction between removal costs knowledgeable and willing parties.
Fair value for mineral assets is generally determined as the present value of the estimated future The Groups mineral leases are of sufficient duration or convey a cash flows expected to arise from the continued use of the asset, legal right to renew for sufficient duration to enable all declared including any expansion prospects, and its eventual disposal, using reserves on the leased properties to be mined in accordance with assumptions that an independent market participant may take into current production schedules.
These cash flows are discounted by an appropriate discount Depreciation of property, plant and equipment rate to arrive at a net present value of the asset.
The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment including Value in use is determined as the present value of the estimated initial and any subsequent capital expenditure are depreciated future cash flows expected to arise from the continued use of the to their estimated residual value over the estimated useful lives of asset in its present form and its eventual disposal.
Value in use is the specific assets concerned, or the estimated life of the associated determined by applying assumptions specific to the Groups mine or mineral lease, if shorter.
Estimates of residual values and continued use and cannot take into account future development.
useful lives are reassessed annually and any change in estimate is These assumptions are different to those used in calculating fair taken into account in the determination of remaining depreciation value and consequently the value in use calculation is likely to charges.
Depreciation commences on the date of commissioning.
give a different result usually lower to a fair value calculation.
The major categories of property, plant and equipment are In testing for indications of impairment and performing impairment depreciated on a unit of production and or straight-line basis using calculations, assets are considered as collective groups and referred estimated lives indicated below, except that where assets are to as cash generating units.
Cash generating units are the smallest dedicated to a mine or petroleum lease the below useful lives are identifiable group of assets, liabilities and associated goodwill that subject to the lesser of the asset categorys useful life and the life generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash of the mine or lease, unless the assets are readily transferable to inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
another productive mine or lease: The impairment assessments are based on a range of estimates Buildings 25 to 50 years and assumptions, including: Land not depreciated Estimates assumptions: Basis: Plant and equipment 3 to 30 years straight-line Future production Proved and probable reserves, resource Mineral rights based on reserves on a unit estimates and, in certain cases, of production basis expansion projects Petroleum interests based on the proved developed Commodity prices Forward market and contract prices, oil and gas reserves on a unit and longer-term price protocol estimates of production basis Exchange rates Current forward market exchange rates Capitalised exploration, based on applicable reserves Discount rates Cost of capital risk adjusted for the evaluation and on a unit of production basis resource concerned development expenditure Overburden removal costs Leased assets Overburden and other mine waste materials are often removed Assets held under leases which result in the Group receiving during the initial development of a mine site in order to access the substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset mineral deposit.
This activity is referred to as development stripping.
finance leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair value of The directly attributable costs inclusive of an allocation of relevant the property, plant and equipment or the estimated present value overhead expenditure are initially capitalised as assets under of the minimum lease payments.
Capitalisation of development stripping costs ceases at the time that saleable material begins to be extracted from the The corresponding finance lease obligation is included within mine.
On completion of development, all assets included in assets interest bearing liabilities.
The interest element is allocated to under construction are transferred to other mineral assets.
accounting periods during the lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation.
Removal of waste material normally continues throughout the life of a mine.
Production stripping commences at the time that Operating lease assets are not capitalised and rental payments saleable materials begin to be extracted from the mine.
The costs are included in the income statement on a straight-line basis over of production stripping are charged to the income statement as the lease term.
Provision is made for the present value of future operating costs when the ratio of waste material to ore extracted operating lease payments in relation to surplus lease space when for an area of interest is expected to be constant throughout its it is first determined that the space will be of no probable future estimated life.
When the ratio of waste to ore is not expected to be benefit.
Operating lease incentives are recognised as a liability constant, production stripping costs are accounted for as follows: when received and subsequently reduced by allocating lease All costs are initially charged to the income statement and payments between rental expense and reduction of the liability.
classified as operating costs Impairment of non-current assets When the current ratio of waste to ore is greater than the estimated life-of-mine ratio, a portion of the stripping costs Formal impairment tests are carried out annually for goodwill.
inclusive of an allocation of relevant overhead expenditure Formal impairment tests for all other assets are performed when is capitalised to Other mineral assets there is an indication of impairment.
At each reporting date, an In subsequent years when the ratio of waste to ore is less than assessment is made to determine whether there are any indications the estimated life-of-mine ratio, a portion of capitalised stripping of impairment.
The Group conducts annually an internal review of costs is charged to the income statement as operating costs asset values which is used as a source of information to assess for any indications of impairment.
External factors, such as changes in The amount of production stripping costs capitalised or charged expected future processes, costs and other market factors are also in a financial year is determined so that the stripping expense for monitored to assess for indications of impairment.
If any indication the financial year reflects the estimated life-of-mine ratio.
Changes of impairment exists an estimate of the assets recoverable amount to the estimated life of mine ratio are accounted for prospectively is calculated.
The recoverable amount is determined as the higher from the date of the change.
of fair value less direct costs to sell and the assets value in use.
174 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
Accounting policies continued Inventories Provision for employee benefits Inventories, including work in progress, are valued at the lower Provision is made in the financial statements for all employee of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined primarily on benefits, including on-costs.
In relation to industry-based long the basis of average costs.
For processed inventories, cost is derived service leave funds, the Groups liability, including obligations on an absorption costing basis.
Cost comprises cost of purchasing for funding shortfalls, is determined after deducting the fair value raw materials and cost of production, including attributable mining of dedicated assets of such funds.
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-monetary benefits, Finance costs annual leave and accumulating sick leave obliged to be settled within 12 months of the reporting date, are recognised in sundry Finance costs are generally expensed as incurred except where they creditors or provision for employee benefits in respect of employees relate to the financing of construction or development of qualifying services up to the reporting date and are measured at the amounts assets requiring a substantial period of time to prepare for their expected to be paid when the liabilities are settled.
Liabilities for intended future use.
non-accumulating sick leave are recognised when the leave is taken Finance costs are capitalised up to the date when the asset is ready and measured at the rates paid or payable.
The amount of finance costs capitalised before The liability for long service leave for which settlement within the effects of income tax for the period is determined by applying 12 months of the reporting date cannot be deferred is recognised the interest rate applicable to appropriate borrowings outstanding in the current provision for employee benefits and is measured during the period to the average amount of capitalised expenditure in accordance with annual leave described above.
The liability for for the qualifying assets during the period.
long service leave for which settlement can be deferred beyond Taxation 12 months from the reporting date is recognised in the non-current provision for employee benefits and measured as the present value Taxation on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and of expected future payments to be made in respect of services deferred tax.
Taxation is recognised in the income statement except provided by employees up to the reporting date.
Consideration to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, is given to expected future wage and salary levels, experience in which case the tax is recognised in equity.
of employee departures and periods of service.
Expected future Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for payments are discounted using market yields at the reporting date the year using rates enacted or substantively enacted at the year on national government bonds with terms to maturity and currency end, and includes any adjustment to tax payable in respect of that match, as closely as possible, the estimated future cash outflows.
Superannuation, pensions and other post-retirement benefits Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, The Group operates or participates in a number of pension including providing for the tax effect of temporary differences between the superannuation schemes throughout the world.
The funding of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting schemes complies with local regulations.
The assets of the schemes purposes and the amounts used for tax assessment or deduction are generally held separately from those of the Group and are purposes.
Where an asset has no deductible or depreciable amount administered by trustees or management boards.
for income tax purposes, but has a deductible amount on sale or abandonment for capital gains tax purposes, that amount is For defined contribution schemes or schemes operated on an included in the determination of temporary differences.
The tax industry-wide basis where it is not possible to identify assets effect of certain temporary differences is not recognised, principally attributable to the participation by the Groups employees, the with respect to goodwill: temporary differences arising on the pension charge is calculated on the basis of contributions payable.
initial recognition of assets or liabilities other than those arising For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing pensions is in a business combination or in a manner that initially impacted charged to the income statement so as to recognise current and past accounting or taxable profit : and temporary differences relating to service costs, interest cost on defined benefit obligations, and the investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates effect of any curtailments or settlements, net of expected returns to the extent that the Group is able to control the reversal of the on plan assets.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in temporary difference and the temporary difference is not expected equity.
An asset or liability is consequently recognised in the balance to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax sheet based on the present value of defined benefit obligations, less recognised is based on the expected manner and timing of any unrecognised past service costs and the fair value of plan assets, realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and except that any such asset can not exceed the total of unrecognised liabilities, with the exception of items that have a tax base solely past service costs and the present value of refunds from and derived under capital gains tax legislation, using tax rates enacted reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Defined benefit or substantively enacted at period end.
To the extent that an items obligations are estimated by discounting expected future payments tax base is solely derived from the amount deductible under capital using market yields at the reporting date on high quality corporate gains tax legislation, deferred tax is determined as if such amounts bonds in countries that have developed corporate bond markets.
are deductible in determining future assessable income.
However, where developed corporate bond markets do not exist, A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is the discount rates are selected by reference to national government probable that future taxable profits will be available against which bonds.
In both instances, the bonds are selected with terms to the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each maturity and currency that match, as closely as possible, the balance sheet date and amended to the extent that it is no longer estimated future cash flows.
probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax Certain Group companies provide post-retirement medical benefits assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes to qualifying retirees.
In some cases the benefits are provided levied by the same taxation authority and the Group has both the through medical care schemes to which the Group, the employees, right and the intention to settle its current tax assets and liabilities the retirees and covered family members contribute.
In some on a net or simultaneous basis.
schemes there is no funding of the benefits before retirement.
Royalties and resource rent taxes are treated as taxation These schemes are recognised on the same basis as described arrangements when they have the characteristics of a tax.
This is above for defined benefit pension schemes.
considered to be the case when they are imposed under government authority and the amount payable is calculated by reference to revenue derived net of any allowable deductions after adjustment for items comprising temporary differences.
For such arrangements, current and deferred tax is provided on the same basis as described above for other forms of taxation.
Obligations arising from royalty arrangements that do not satisfy these criteria are recognised as current provisions and included in expenses.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 175 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
Accounting policies continued Closure and rehabilitation Financial instruments The mining, extraction and processing activities of the Group All financial assets are initially recognised at the fair value of normally give rise to obligations for site closure or rehabilitation.
Subsequently, financial assets are carried at Closure and rehabilitation works can include facility decommissioning fair value or amortised cost less impairment.
Where non-derivative and dismantling: removal or treatment of waste materials: site and financial assets are carried at fair value, gains and losses on land rehabilitation.
The extent of work required and the associated remeasurement are recognised directly in equity unless the financial costs are dependent on the requirements of relevant authorities assets have been designated as being held at fair value through and the Groups environmental policies.
profit, in which case the gains and losses are recognised directly in the income statement.
Financial assets are designated as being Provisions for the cost of each closure and rehabilitation program held at fair value through profit when this is necessary to reduce are recognised at the time that environmental disturbance occurs.
measurement inconsistencies for related assets and liabilities.
When the extent of disturbance increases over the life of an All financial liabilities other than derivatives are initially recognised operation, the provision is increased accordingly.
Costs included at fair value of consideration received net of transaction costs as in the provision encompass all closure and rehabilitation activity appropriate initial cost and subsequently carried at amortised cost.
expected to occur progressively over the life of the operation and at the time of closure in connection with disturbances at the reporting Derivatives, including those embedded in other contractual date.
Routine operating costs that may impact the ultimate closure arrangements but separated for accounting purposes because they and rehabilitation activities, such as waste material handling are not clearly and closely related to the host contract, are initially conducted as an integral part of a mining or production process, recognised at fair value on the date the contract is entered into are not included in the provision.
Costs arising from unforeseen and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method circumstances, such as the contamination caused by unplanned of recognising the resulting gain or loss on remeasurement depends discharges, are recognised as an expense and liability when the on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, event gives rise to an obligation which is probable and capable and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The measurement of reliable estimation.
of fair value is based on quoted market prices.
Where no price information is available from a quoted market source, alternative The timing of the actual closure and rehabilitation expenditure market mechanisms or recent comparable transactions, fair value is dependent upon a number of factors such as the life and is estimated based on the Groups views on relevant future prices, nature of the asset, the operating licence conditions, the principles net of valuation allowances to accommodate liquidity, modelling of our Charter and the environment in which the mine operates.
and other risks implicit in such estimates.
Expenditure may occur before and after closure and can continue for an extended period of time dependent on closure and rehabilitation Forward exchange contracts held for hedging purposes are generally requirements.
The majority of the expenditure is expected to be paid accounted for as cash flow hedges.
Interest rate swaps held for over periods of up to 50 years with some payments into perpetuity.
hedging purposes are generally accounted for as fair value hedges.
Derivatives embedded within other contractual arrangements and Closure and rehabilitation provisions are measured at the expected the majority of commodity based transactions executed through value of future cash flows, discounted to their present value and derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting.
determined according to the probability of alternative estimates of cash flows occurring for each operation.
Discount rates used Fair value hedges are specific to the country in which the operation is located.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and Significant judgements and estimates are involved in forming qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, expectations of future activities and the amount and timing of together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset the associated cash flows.
Those expectations are formed based or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Any difference on existing environmental and regulatory requirements or, if more between the change in fair value of the derivative and the hedged stringent, Group environmental policies which give rise to a risk constitutes ineffectiveness of the hedge and is recognised constructive obligation.
immediately in the income statement.
When provisions for closure and rehabilitation are initially Cash flow hedges recognised, the corresponding cost is capitalised as an asset, The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that representing part of the cost of acquiring the future economic are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in equity benefits of the operation.
The capitalised cost of closure and in the hedging reserve.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective rehabilitation activities is recognised in Property, plant and portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The value of the provision is progressively increased over time as the effect of discounting Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income unwinds, creating an expense recognised in financial expenses.
statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results Closure and rehabilitation provisions are also adjusted for changes in the recognition of a non-financial asset for example, plant and in estimates.
Those adjustments are accounted for as a change in equipment purchases or a non-financial liability, the gains and the corresponding capitalised cost, except where a reduction in losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity the provision is greater than the undepreciated capitalised cost and included in the measurement of the initial carrying amount of the related assets, in which case the capitalised cost is reduced of the asset or liability.
to nil and the remaining adjustment is recognised in the income statement.
In the case of closed sites, changes to estimated costs When a hedging instrument expires or is sold or terminated, or are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Changes to when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the capitalised cost result in an adjustment to future depreciation any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in and financial charges.
Adjustments to the estimated amount and equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately timing of future closure and rehabilitation cash flows are a normal recognised in the income statement.
When a hedged forecast occurrence in light of the significant judgements and estimates transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative hedge involved.
Factors influencing those changes include: gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred revisions to estimated reserves, resources and lives of operations to the income statement.
developments in technology Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting regulatory requirements and environmental management strategies Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
changes in the estimated costs of anticipated activities, including Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does not the effects of inflation and movements in foreign exchange rates qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the movements in interest rates affecting the discount rate applied income statement.
176 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
Accounting policies continued Available for sale and trading investments Because the economic assumptions used to estimate reserves change from period to period, and because additional geological Available for sale and trading investments are measured at data is generated during the course of operations, estimates of fair value.
Gains and losses on the remeasurement of trading reserves may change from period to period.
Changes in reported investments are recognised directly in the income statement.
Gains reserves may affect the Groups financial results and financial and losses on the remeasurement of available for sale investments position in a number of ways, including the following: are recognised directly in equity and subsequently recognised in Asset carrying values may be affected due to changes the income statement when realised by sale or redemption, or when in estimated future cash flows a reduction in fair value is judged to represent an impairment.
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation charged in the income statement may change where such charges are determined by Application of critical accounting policies and estimates the units of production basis, or where the useful economic lives The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires of assets change management to make judgements and estimates and form Overburden removal costs recorded on the balance sheet or assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and charged to the income statement may change due to changes in liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date stripping ratios or the units of production basis of depreciation of the financial statements, and the reported revenue and Decommissioning, site restoration and environmental provisions expenses during the periods presented therein.
On an ongoing may change where changes in estimated reserves affect basis, management evaluates its judgements and estimates in expectations about the timing or cost of these activities relation to assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities, revenue and The carrying value of deferred tax assets may change due to expenses.
Management bases its judgements and estimates on changes in estimates of the likely recovery of the tax benefits historical experience and on other various factors it believes to Exploration and evaluation expenditure be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are The Groups accounting policy for exploration and evaluation not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ expenditure results in certain items of expenditure being capitalised from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
for an area of interest where it is considered likely to be recoverable by future exploitation or sale or where the activities have not reached The Group has identified the following critical accounting policies a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence under which significant judgements, estimates and assumptions are of reserves.
This policy requires management to make certain made and where actual results may differ from these estimates under estimates and assumptions as to future events and circumstances, different assumptions and conditions and may materially affect in particular whether an economically viable extraction operation financial results or the financial position reported in future periods.
Any such estimates and assumptions may Further details of the nature of these assumptions and conditions change as new information becomes available.
If, after having may be found in the relevant notes to the financial statements.
capitalised the expenditure under the policy, a judgement is made that recovery of the expenditure is unlikely, the relevant capitalised Reserve estimates amount will be written off to the income statement.
Reserves are estimates of the amount of product that can be Development expenditure economically and legally extracted from the Groups properties.
In order to calculate reserves, estimates and assumptions are Development activities commence after project sanctioning required about a range of geological, technical and economic by the appropriate level of management.
Judgement is applied factors, including quantities, grades, production techniques, by management in determining when a project is economically recovery rates, production costs, transport costs, commodity viable.
In exercising this judgement, management is required demand, commodity prices and exchange rates.
to make certain estimates and assumptions similar to those described above for capitalised exploration and evaluation Estimating the quantity and or grade of reserves requires the expenditure.
Any such estimates and assumptions may change size, shape and depth of ore bodies or fields to be determined by as new information becomes available.
If, after having commenced analysing geological data such as drilling samples.
This process the development activity, a judgement is made that a development may require complex and difficult geological judgements and asset is impaired, the appropriate amount will be written off calculations to interpret the data.
The Group determines and reports ore reserves in Australia and the Property, plant and equipment recoverable amount UK under the principles incorporated in the Australasian Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves December 2004, In accordance with the Groups accounting policy, each asset known as the JORC Code.
The JORC Code requires the use of or cash generating unit is evaluated every reporting period to reasonable investment assumptions to calculate reserves.
Reserve determine whether there are any indications of impairment.
If any reporting requirements for SEC United States of America filings are such indication exists, a formal estimate of recoverable amount specified in Industry Guide 7 which requires economic assumptions is performed and an impairment loss recognised to the extent that to be based on current economic conditions, which may differ carrying amount exceeds recoverable amount.
The recoverable from assumptions based on reasonable investment assumptions.
amount of an asset or cash generating group of assets is measured For example, if current prices remain above long-term historical at the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
averages for an extended period of time, internal assumptions about The determination of fair value and value in use requires future prices may involve the use of lower prices to estimate reserves management to make estimates and assumptions about expected under the JORC Code.
Lower price assumptions generally result in production and sales volumes, commodity prices considering lower estimates of reserves.
Accordingly, for SEC filings, assumed current and historical prices, price trends and related factors, future selling prices are based on existing contract prices for reserves see Reserve estimates above, operating costs, closure commodities sold under long-term contracts, such as iron ore and and rehabilitation costs and future capital expenditure.
These coal, and the three-year historical average for commodities that are estimates and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty: traded on the London Metals Exchange, such as copper and nickel.
hence there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will alter Oil and gas reserves reported in Australia and the UK, and the US these projections, which may impact the recoverable amount of the for SEC filing purposes, are based on prices prevailing at the time of assets.
In such circumstances, some or all of the carrying value of the estimates as required under Statement of Financial Accounting the assets may be impaired and the impairment would be charged Standards No.
69 Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing against the income statement.
Activities, issued by the US Financial Accounting Standards Board.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 177 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
Accounting policies continued Defined benefit superannuation schemes Taxation The accounting policy for defined benefit superannuation The Groups accounting policy for taxation requires managements schemes requires management to make judgements as to the judgement as to the types of arrangements considered to be a tax on nature of benefits provided by each scheme and thereby determine income in contrast to an operating cost.
Judgement is also required the classification of each scheme.
For defined benefit schemes, in assessing whether deferred tax assets and certain deferred management is required to make annual estimates and assumptions tax liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet.
Deferred tax about future returns on classes of scheme assets, future remuneration assets, including those arising from unrecouped tax losses, capital changes, employee attrition rates, administration costs, changes in losses and temporary differences, are recognised only where it benefits, inflation rates, exchange rates, life expectancy and expected is considered more likely than not that they will be recovered, remaining periods of service of employees.
In making these estimates which is dependent on the generation of sufficient future taxable and assumptions, management considers advice provided by external profits.
Deferred tax liabilities arising from temporary differences advisers, such as actuaries.
Where actual experience differs to these in investments, caused principally by retained earnings held in estimates, actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
foreign tax jurisdictions, are recognised unless repatriation of Refer to note 34 for details of the key assumptions.
retained earnings can be controlled and are not expected to occur in the foreseeable future.
Provision for closure and rehabilitation Assumptions about the generation of future taxable profits The Groups accounting policy for the recognition of closure and repatriation of retained earnings depend on managements and rehabilitation provisions requires significant estimates and estimates of future cash flows.
These depend on estimates assumptions such as: requirements of the relevant legal and of future production and sales volumes, commodity prices, regulatory framework: the magnitude of possible contamination and reserves, operating costs, closure and rehabilitation costs, capital the timing, extent and costs of required closure and rehabilitation expenditure, dividends and other capital management transactions.
These uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure Judgements are also required about the application of income differing from the amounts currently provided.
These judgements and assumptions are subject The provision recognised for each site is periodically reviewed to risk and uncertainty, hence there is a possibility that changes in and updated based on the facts and circumstances available at circumstances will alter expectations, which may impact the amount the time.
Changes to the estimated future costs for operating sites of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities recognised on the are recognised in the balance sheet by adjusting both the closure balance sheet and the amount of other tax losses and temporary and rehabilitation asset and provision.
For closed sites, changes to differences not yet recognised.
In such circumstances, some or estimated costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
all of the carrying amount of recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities may require adjustment, resulting in a corresponding In addition to the uncertainties noted above, certain closure and credit or charge to the income statement.
rehabilitation activities are subject to legal disputes and depending on the ultimate resolution of these issues the final liability for these Rounding of amounts matters could vary.
Amounts in this financial report have, unless otherwise indicated, been rounded to the nearest million dollars.
Comparatives Where applicable, comparatives have been adjusted to disclose them on the same basis as current period figures.
178 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
