NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 35.
Subsequent events On 17 July 2008, we announced that BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance BMA had entered into a conditional agreement to acquire 100 per cent of the New Saraji Coal Project for a cash consideration of approximately US$2.4 billion US$1.2 billion, BHP Billiton share.
This acquisition is consistent with the Groups strategy to accelerate growth in long life, low cost natural resources with a focus on delivering shareholder value.
At reporting date, the status of acquisition accounting is incomplete and does not permit the disclosure of any pro-forma financial information.
In addition, on 10 July 2008, the acquisition of Anglo Potash Limited was finalised.
The total equity of the transaction is approximately US$282 million on a fully diluted basis.
These transactions had no impact on the Groups financial results or financial position presented in this financial report.
Other than the matters outlined above, no matters or circumstances have arisen since the end of the year that have significantly affected, or may significantly affect, the operations, results or operations or state of affairs of the Group in subsequent accounting periods.
Acquired operations 30 June 2008 There were no material acquisitions made by the Group.
30 June 2007 On 1 February 2007, the Group acquired a 44 per cent interest in the operation of the Genghis Khan oil and gas development Genghis Khan for a total cash consideration of US$583 million.
Genghis Khan includes Green Canyon Blocks 652 and 608 and was discovered in 2005 in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
Genghis Khan is located in the same geological structure and allows the Group to benefit from development synergies with the Shenzi project, which was sanctioned for development in the 2006 financial year.
Genghis Khan was acquired in the Petroleum segment.
The following table details the book values of the Genghis Khan assets and liabilities acquired and the fair values allocated to these assets and liabilities.
a b Book values Fair value adjustments Fair values at acquisition US$M US$M US$M Inventories 1 1 Property, plant and equipment 68 517 585 Provisions 3 3 Net assets acquired 69 514 583 Cost of business combination paid 583 a Represent book values prepared in accordance with the accounting policies applicable to Genghis Khan for the period prior to acquisition by BHP Billiton.
b The material adjustments for acquisition accounting principally relate to: Property, plant and equipment reflects the fair value of leasehold mineral assets and the revaluation of plant and equipment to replacement cost.
Decommissioning, site closure and environmental rehabilitation provisions are measured at the present value of estimated future costs of rehabilitation.
Deferred tax asset and liability balances have been adjusted to reflect revised book and tax values because of fair value adjustments.
The net effect of recognising the deferred tax balances at acquisition is US$nil.
Pro-forma financial information The pro-forma consolidated results of operations of the Group for the year ended 30 June 2007 and 30 June 2006 would remain unchanged assuming that the acquisition of Genghis Khan occurred as of 1 July of each year as the operation did not generate revenue or incur operating costs.
230 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
