1 KEY INFORMATION continued It is in this global context that the Board endorsed a proposal 1.2 Chairmans Review to combine BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto, two leading resources This year, we reported another record profit of US$15.4 billion, companies that together could help meet the developing the seventh consecutive full-year profit increase.
This represents economies demand for resources better and faster than a 602 per cent increase in attributable profit since 2001.
Over the two companies do apart.
A combined company would have the same period, Total Shareholder Returns, the movement in a greater ability to develop the next generation of large-scale our share price plus dividends, have increased by 863 per cent, projects to provide greater volumes of product for the benefit reflecting progressive dividend increases and the market value of its customers, the communities in which it operates and of the Company.
We also rebased our dividend for the second its shareholders.
This represents a 150 per cent increase over In making the pre-conditional offer for Rio Tinto, the Board the past three years.
remains absolutely focused on value for shareholders.
We are Unfortunately, mining stocks have seen a significant fide-rating confident that both sets of shareholders would share the value since May this year on the back of short-term uncertainty.
This is disappointing for the management and shareholders On behalf of the Board, I want to thank our senior management of BHP Billiton.
team for their efforts this year.
They have performed magnificently While we expect commodity markets to remain volatile and, under the new leadership of Marius Kloppers, the Company in the short term, we are confident that longer-term market has stepped up efforts to meet a new realm of global challenges fundamentals should support growth in commodity demand and opportunities.
Board renewal Margins and cash flow will be impacted by cost inflation.
But our Building an exceptional board is a cornerstone of an effective strategy to ensure we have a suite of long-life, low-cost assets, corporate governance system and planning for board renewal diversified by geography and commodity, that can be expanded is a continuous process.
and are largely export oriented, is proving successful at delivering consistent results for all our stakeholders.
The process of putting together the best board for the business has to start with the business strategy and an assessment To fully appreciate the role BHP Billiton and the resources of the strengths and weaknesses of current members.
industry generally is playing today, it is essential to look at New non-executive Directors must fill an essential role what is happening to the worlds economies.
in line with the strategic intent of the business and bring Central to the worlds economic growth is the development of the to the Company the skills determined by the Board.
new economies China in particular, Russia, India and, to a lesser Attracting exceptional people will not of itself create exceptional extent, Brazil.
Counteracting these forces is the relative shrinkage directors: the candidates have to fit together as a team.
of the United States economy and the lessening influence of the United Kingdom and Europe.
Asia is becoming increasingly BHP Billiton has an exceptional group of high-performing, dominant, today accounting for nearly 30 per cent of global skilful, professional people, diverse in knowledge, gender Gross Domestic Product GDP.
and geography, who have overseen incredible growth in the business over the last seven years.
These economic shifts are having many consequences.
For BHP Billiton, rapid and continuing Asian growth has put The tone at the top and within the Board has fostered pressure on demand for our products, which are essential for an environment in which we are committed to high ethical the building and production of city infrastructure and personal standards, fairness, full compliance with legal requirements goods that characterise Asias urbanisation and industrialisation.
and resistance to market pressures for short-term results.
I have no doubt that economic growth in the Asian region During the year, we engaged external search firms to assist will slow at some point but, if I look at China specifically, with Board renewal, which resulted in the appointment of the slow down is concentrated in regions oriented to David Morgan, Keith Rumble and Alan Boeckmann.
These the light export sector.
The sectors of the economy oriented non-executive Directors have the required functional expertise: more towards domestic consumption are still performing they are independent of thought and satisfy the independence well despite increasing input costs, particularly for energy.
test of the various jurisdictional codes of corporate governance.
We expect Asian demand for our products to continue.
Our response We also completed a review of the Board Committees, including has been to streamline our business to enable us to produce an examination of the respective Committee charters, and a as much product as fast as possible within the non-negotiable performance review of each Director, including the Chairman, framework of the highest safety and environmental standards.
to ensure that our Board criteria is maintained.
These reviews were facilitated by external advisers.
In operating our business at full capacity and continually seeking opportunities to increase the volumes of product available to In conclusion, it has been a stellar year for the Company and its our customers, it is the Boards duty to ensure we are creating stakeholders and I compliment my Board colleagues and senior real and tangible value for shareholders.
We are proud to report management team for their commitment and dedication to the that during the year we continued to deliver new projects to delivery of our strategy.
boost product volumes and we achieved strong profit margins across our businesses.
It is not only demand for our products that is being impacted by global economic shifts.
As the worlds largest diversified resources company, we are watching the creation of competitor companies that are spearheading the economic emergence of countries like Don Argus Russia, Brazil and China.
Chairman 6 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
