1 Review continued Attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings during the year ended 30 June 2008 Board Risk and Audit Nomination Remuneration Sustainability ABABABABAB Paul Anderson 12 10 6 6 Don Argus 12 12 7 7 1 David Brink 5533 John Buchanan 12 10 7 6 5 4 Carlos Cordeiro 12 12 5 4 David Crawford 12 12 9 9 E Gail fide Planque 12 12 5 5 6 6 2 Charles Goodyear 11 David Jenkins 12 12 9 9 5 5 Marius Kloppers 12 12 3 David Morgan 5533 Jacques Nasser 12 11 9 8 John Schubert 12 12 7 7 6 6 Column A indicates the number of meetings held during the period the Director was a member of the Board and or Committee Column B indicates the number of meetings attended during the period the Director was a member of the Board and or Committee 1 David Brink retired from the Board on 28 November 2007.
2 Charles Goodyear retired from the Board on 30 September 2007.
3 David Morgan was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2008, and to the Risk and Audit Committee on 11 March 2008.
2 Re-election a proven track record of creating shareholder value unquestioned integrity At least one-third of Directors retire at each Annual General Meeting.
Directors are not appointed for a fixed term and must a commitment to the highest standards of governance submit themselves to shareholders for re-election after three having the required time available to devote to the job years.
The period that Directors have served on the Board and strategic mind set, an awareness of market leadership, the years in which they were first appointed and last elected outstanding monitoring skills are set out in section 4.1 of this Report.
a preparedness to question, challenge and critique The Board has determined that non-executive Directors who have an independent point of view.
served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of their Newly appointed Directors must submit themselves to first election must stand for re-election annually from the first shareholders for election at the first Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting after the expiration of their current term.
Retiring Directors who are seeking re-election are subject to a performance appraisal 5.5 Board Committees overseen by the Nomination Committee.
Following that appraisal, the Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, The Board has established Committees to assist it in exercising its makes a determination as to whether it will endorse a retiring authority, including monitoring the performance of the business Director for re-election.
The Board will not endorse a Director for to gain assurance that progress is being made towards the re-election if his or her performance is not considered satisfactory.
Corporate Objective within the limits imposed by the Board.
The Board will advise shareholders in the Notice of Meeting The permanent Committees of the Board are the Risk and Audit whether or not re-election is supported.
Committee, the Sustainability Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
3 Renewal are formed from time to time to deal with specific matters.
The Board plans for its own succession with the assistance Each of the permanent Committees has Terms of Reference under of the Nomination Committee.
In doing this, the Board: which authority is delegated by the Board.
considers the skills, knowledge and experience necessary to allow it to meet the strategic vision for the business The Terms of Reference for each Committee can be assesses the skills, knowledge and experience found at www.
currently represented identifies any skills, knowledge and experience not adequately The office of the Company Secretary provides secretariat services represented and agrees the process necessary to ensure for each of the Committees.
Committee meeting agendas, papers a candidate is selected that brings those traits and minutes are made available to all members of the Board.
reviews how Board performance might be enhanced, both Subject to appropriate controls and the overriding scrutiny of the at an individual Director level and for the Board as a whole.
Board, Committee Chairmen are free to use whatever resources they consider necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
When considering new appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committee oversees the preparation of a position Reports from each of the Committees appear below.
specification that is provided to an independent recruitment organisation retained to conduct a global search.
In addition to the specific skills, knowledge and experience deemed necessary, the specification contains criteria such as: 130 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
