10 GLOSSARY Deferred share 10.1 Non-mining terms A nil-priced option or a conditional right to acquire In the context of ADSs and listed investments, the term quoted a share issued under the rules of the GIS.
means traded on the relevant exchange.
DLC merger A$ The Dual Listed Companies merger between BHP Billiton Limited Australian dollars being the currency of the and BHP Billiton Plc on 29 June 2001.
DLC structure American Depositary Share The corporate structure resulting from the DLC merger.
An American Depositary Share is a share issued under a deposit agreement that has been created to permit US-resident investors Employee Share Plan to hold shares in non-US companies and trade them on the stock A legacy employee share plan that commenced under the exchanges in the US.
One ADS is equal to two BHP Billiton Limited jurisdiction of BHP Limited prior to the formation of BHP Billiton.
or BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares.
ADSs are evidenced by Abbreviates to ESP.
American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, which are the instruments that trade on the NYSE.
Expected value Expected value of a share incentive the average outcome BHP Billiton weighted by probability.
This measure takes into account Being both companies in the dual listed company structure, the difficulty of achieving performance conditions and the BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
correlation between these and share price appreciation.
The valuation methodology also takes into account factors BHP Billiton Limited share such as volatility, forfeiture risk, etc.
A fully paid ordinary share in the capital of BHP Billiton Limited.
FY2006 BHP Billiton Limited shareholders Refers to the financial year ended 30 June 2006.
The holders of BHP Billiton Limited shares.
FY2007 BHP Billiton Limited special voting share Refers to the financial year ended 30 June 2007.
A single voting share was issued to facilitate joint voting by shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited on Joint Electorate Actions.
FY2008 Refers to the financial year ended 30 June 2008.
BHP Billiton Plc equalisation share A share that has been authorised to be issued to enable FY2009 a distribution to be made by BHP Billiton Plc Group to the Refers to the financial year ended 30 June 2009.
BHP Billiton Limited Group should this be required under the terms of the DLC merger.
GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles as defined BHP Billiton Plc 5.5 per cent preference share in the US or other jurisdiction.
Shares that have the right to repayment of the amount paid up on the nominal value and any unpaid dividends in priority Gearing of any other class of shares in BHP Billiton Plc on a return Gearing is defined as the ratio of net debt to net debt of capital or winding up.
BHP Billiton Plc share Group A fully paid ordinary share in the capital of BHP Billiton Plc.
BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their subsidiaries.
BHP Billiton Plc shareholders Group Incentive Scheme The holders of BHP Billiton Plc shares.
BHP Billiton Plc special voting share International Financial Reporting Standards A single voting share was issued to facilitate joint voting by Accounting standards as issued by the International Accounting shareholders of BHP Billiton Plc on Joint Electorate Actions.
Board Key Management Personnel The Board of Directors of BHP Billiton.
Persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly CEO or indirectly including executive Directors, and non-executive Chief Executive Officer.
CFR named port of destination Key Performance Indicator The seller must pay the costs and freight necessary to bring Used to measure the performance of the Group, individual the goods to the named port of destination, but the risk of loss businesses and executives in any one year.
of or damage to the goods, as well as any additional costs due to events occurring after the time the goods have been delivered LME onboard the vessel, is transferred from the seller to the buyer London Metal Exchange A London exchange which trades when the goods pass the ships rail in the port of shipment.
metals e. g. lead, zinc, aluminium and nickel in forward The CFR term requires the seller to clear the goods for shipment.
Co-Investment Plan Long Term Incentive Plan Legacy share scheme.
CSG Major capital projects Customer Sector Group being the strategic business units Capital projects in the Feasibility or Execution phase where of BHP Billiton.
our share of capital expenditure to project completion is greater then US$100 million.
