3 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS continued 3.4.
7 Health, safety, environment and community The demand for our products is directly related to the strength of We aspire to Zero Harm to people, our host communities and the global economy.
However, the diversification of our portfolio the environment and strive to achieve leading industry practice.
of assets and commodities we extract limits the impact of Sound principles to govern safety, business conduct, social, a particular industry or region.
environmental and economic activities are integral to the way we do business.
Our Charter highlights that we care as much The global economy has remained resilient in the face of about how results are obtained as we do about delivering significant structural weaknesses in developed economies.
Our Health, Safety, Environment and Community The continuing massive industrialisation in China is providing Management Standards provide the basis for developing and solid support to the global economy.
applying management systems at all levels of our Company Over the past financial year there has been considerable and are a driver of our contribution to sustainable development.
weakening in most major developed economies.
The deflation As a global company, operating in many different countries, of asset values within these economies has led to a reduction in we are subject to extensive regulation surrounding health and wealth effect for consumers.
This appears to have ended the past safety of our people and the environment.
We make every effort decades unsustainable consumer debt driven economic growth, to comply with the regulations and, where less stringent than particularly in the US.
our standards, exceed applicable legal and other requirements.
However, a direct spill over into emerging market economies has However, regulatory standards and community expectations remained largely contained.
Emerging market economies have are constantly evolving, and as a result, we may be exposed contributed more than their industrial counterparts to global to increased litigation, compliance costs and unforeseen growth since the year 2000.
Led by China and India, economic environmental remediation expenses, despite our best efforts growth in these economies has been strong with solid support to work with governments, community groups and scientists from growth in domestic demand and strong trading activity to keep pace with regulations, law and public expectation.
with other emerging market economies.
We expect short-term global economic growth to slow as 3.5 Application of critical accounting policies developed economies experience further weakening in the and estimates coming quarters.
Liquidity is likely to remain low, and risk premiums high for some time into the future.
Rising inflation, The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires particularly in food and energy, alongside weakening economic management to make estimates and assumptions that affect growth has restricted the flexibility of central banks to inject the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure liquidity and stimulate their economies.
of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported revenue and costs during the periods presented Higher inflation will also have a likely negative impact on therein.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates emerging market economies through their adoption of tighter and judgements in relation to assets, liabilities, contingent monetary policies.
However, we believe that emerging market liabilities, revenue and costs.
Management bases its estimates and economies should remain relatively strong on the back of judgements on historical experience and on various other factors continued domestic infrastructure investment and regional it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results trade.
While short-term disruptions may occur, we expect that of which form the basis of making judgements about the carrying their long-term economic growth will remain robust as they values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from continue on the path to industrialisation.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
5 Operating costs and capital expenditures Strong global demand for resources continues to provide cost We have identified the following critical accounting policies under which significant judgements, estimates and assumptions are challenges for the whole industry.
Rising prices for inputs such as diesel, coke and explosives, labour and contractor charges, made and where actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions and may materially shipping and freight costs added to already tight market conditions.
Severe weather disruptions in Queensland also affect financial results or the financial position reported in future periods: had an adverse cost impact.
However, our world-class orebodies, strong supplier relationships, internal systems, reserve estimates the capabilities of our people and our continuing focus on exploration and evaluation expenditure our Business Excellence improvement program have development expenditure provided some relief against significant cost pressures.
property, plant and equipment recoverable amount 3.4.
6 Exploration and development of resources defined benefit superannuation schemes provision for closure and rehabilitation Because most of our revenues and profits are related to our oil and gas and minerals operations, our results and financial taxation condition are directly related to the success of our exploration In accordance with IFRS, we are required to include information efforts and our ability to replace existing reserves.
However, regarding the nature of the judgements and estimates and there are no guarantees that our exploration program will potential impacts on our financial results or financial position in be successful.
When we identify an economic deposit, there the financial statements.
This information can be found in note 1 are often significant challenges and hurdles entailed in its Accounting policies in the financial statements.
development, such as negotiating rights to extract ore with governments and landowners, design and construction of required infrastructure, utilisation of new technologies in processing, and building customer support.
100 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
