Performance share plan Cut-off grade A nominated grade above which is defined some mineral aspect of A share plan that commenced under the jurisdiction of BHP Limited or Billiton Plc and prior to the formation the reserve.
For example, the lowest grade of mineralised material that qualifies as economic for estimating an Ore Reserves.
Legacy share scheme abbreviates to PSP.
Electrowinning electrowon Shareplus An electrochemical process in which metal is recovered by All employee share purchase plan.
dissolving a metal within an electrolyte and plating it onto Total Recordable Injuries Frequency Rate an electrode.
Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate Fatalities Energy coal Lost Time Cases Restricted Work Cases Medical Treatment Used as a fuel source in electrical power generation, cement Cases 1,000,000 work hours.
manufacture and various industrial applications.
Energy coal Total shareholder return may also be referred to as steaming or thermal coal.
The change in share price plus dividends reinvested.
Where sold separately, is largely ethane gas that has been Underlying EBIT margin liquefied through pressurisation.
One tonne of ethane is approximately equivalent to 26.8 thousand cubic feet of gas.
Calculated as Underlying EBIT as defined in section 3.6.
1 excluding third party EBIT, divided by Revenue net of Flotation third party product revenue.
A method of selectively recovering minerals from finely ground ore using a froth created in water by specific reagents.
In the US$ flotation process, certain mineral particles are induced to float Currency of the United States of America and the currency by becoming attached to bubbles of froth and the unwanted the BHP Billiton Group uses in publishing its consolidated mineral particles sink.
Grade Zero Harm The relative quantity, or the percentage, of metal or mineral BHP Billitons aspirational goal that reflects our continual drive content in an orebody.
to minimise harm to people, our host communities and the environment from our activities.
Greenfield The development or exploration located outside the area of influence of existing mine operations infrastructure.
10.2 Mining and mining-related terms Alumina Liquefied natural gas LNG Aluminium oxide Al O. Alumina is produced from bauxite Consists largely of methane that has been liquefied through 2 3 in the refining process.
Alumina is then converted reduced chilling and pressurisation.
One tonne of LNG is approximately in an electrolysis cell to produce aluminium metal.
equivalent to 45.9 thousand cubic feet of natural gas.
Bauxite Liquefied petroleum gas LPG Chief ore of aluminium.
Consists of propane and butane and a small amount less than two per cent of ethane that has been liquefied Brownfield through pressurisation.
One tonne of LPG is approximately A exploration or development project located within an equivalent to 11.6 barrels.
existing mineral province which can share infrastructure Marketable Coal Reserves and management with an existing operation.
Represent beneficiated or otherwise enhanced coal product Coal Reserves and should be read in conjunction with, but not instead of, The same meaning as Ore Reserves, but specifically reports of coal reserves.
Metallurgical coal Coking coal A broader term than coking coal, which includes all coals used in steelmaking, such as coal used for the pulverised By virtue of its carbonisation properties, is used in the coal injection process.
manufacture of coke, which is used in the steelmaking process.
Coking coal may also be referred to as metallurgical coal.
Open-cut open-pit Condensate Surface working in which the working area is kept open to the sky.
A mixture of hydrocarbons that exist in gaseous form in natural underground reservoirs, but which condense to form a liquid Ore Reserves at atmospheric conditions.
That part of a mineral deposit that could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the Copper cathode reserve determination.
Electrolytically refined copper that has been deposited on the cathode of an electrolytic bath of acidified copper sulphate solution.
The refined copper may also be produced through 10.3 Units of measure leaching and electrowinning.
Abbreviation Description Crude oil boe Barrel oil equivalent A mixture of hydrocarbons that exist in liquid form in natural MMcf d Million of cubic feet per day underground reservoirs, and remain liquid at atmospheric Mbbl d Thousand barrels per day pressure after being produced at the well head and passing through surface separating facilities.
MMbbl d Million barrels per day mtpa Million tonnes per annum mw Megawatts tph Tonnes per hour BHP BILLITON PLC CONCISE ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 87 5604 BHPB Concise Sec 5-BC.
