10 GLOSSARY OF TERMS Employee Share Plan 10.1 Non-mining terms A legacy employee share plan that commenced under the In the context of ADSs and listed investments, the term quoted jurisdiction of BHP Limited prior to the formation of BHP Billiton.
means traded on the relevant exchange.
A$ Expected value Australian dollars being the currency of the Expected value of a share incentive the average outcome Commonwealth of Australia.
This measure takes into account the difficulty of achieving performance conditions and the American Depositary Share correlation between these and share price appreciation.
An American Depositary Share is a share issued under a deposit The valuation methodology also takes into account factors agreement that has been created to permit US-resident investors such as volatility, forfeiture risk, etc.
to hold shares in non-US companies and trade them on the stock exchanges in the US.
One ADS is equal to two BHP Billiton Limited FY2006 or BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares.
ADSs are evidenced by Refers to the financial year ended 30 June 2006.
American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, which are the instruments that trade on the NYSE.
FY2007 Refers to the financial year ended 30 June 2007.
BHP Billiton Being both companies in the dual listed company structure, FY2008 BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
Refers to the financial year ended 30 June 2008.
BHP Billiton Limited share FY2009 A fully paid ordinary share in the capital of BHP Billiton Limited.
Refers to the financial year ended 30 June 2009.
BHP Billiton Limited shareholders GAAP The holders of BHP Billiton Limited shares.
Generally accepted accounting principles as defined in the US or other jurisdiction.
BHP Billiton Limited special voting share A single voting share was issued to facilitate joint voting by Gearing shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited on Joint Electorate Actions.
Gearing is defined as the ratio of net debt to net debt plus net assets.
BHP Billiton Plc equalisation share A share that has been authorised to be issued to enable Group a distribution to be made by BHP Billiton Plc Group to the BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their subsidiaries.
BHP Billiton Limited Group should this be required under the terms of the DLC merger.
Group Incentive Scheme Current share scheme.
BHP Billiton Plc 5.5 per cent preference share Shares that have the right to repayment of the amount paid International Financial Reporting Standards up on the nominal value and any unpaid dividends in priority Abbreviates to IFRS.
of any other class of shares in BHP Billiton Plc on a return Key Management Personnel of capital or winding up.
Persons having authority and responsibility for planning, BHP Billiton Plc share directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly A fully paid ordinary share in the capital of BHP Billiton Plc.
or indirectly including executive Directors, and non-executive Directors.
BHP Billiton Plc shareholders The holders of BHP Billiton Plc shares.
Key Performance Indicator Used to measure the performance of the Group, individual BHP Billiton Plc special voting share businesses and executives in any one year.
A single voting share was issued to facilitate joint voting by shareholders of BHP Billiton Plc on Joint Electorate Actions.
Long Term Incentive Plan Current share scheme.
Board The Board of Directors of BHP Billiton.
Major capital projects Capital projects in the Feasibility or Execution phase where CEO our share of capital expenditure to project completion is greater Chief Executive Officer.
CSG Market value Customer Sector Group being the strategic business units The market value based on closing prices, or, in instances of BHP Billiton.
when an executive exercises and sells shares, the actual sale price achieved.
Deferred share A nil-priced option or a conditional right to acquire Option a share issued under the rules of the GIS.
A right to acquire a share on payment of an exercise price issued under the rules of the GIS.
DLC merger The Dual Listed Companies merger between BHP Billiton Limited Performance share and BHP Billiton Plc on 29 June 2001.
A nil-priced option or a conditional right to acquire a share, subject to a Performance Hurdle, issued under the rules DLC structure of the LTIP.
The corporate structure resulting from the DLC merger.
86 - BHP BILLITON PLC CONCISE ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5604 BHPB Concise Sec 5-BC.
