2 Exchange rates Iron ore: Demand for iron ore continues to surge with imports by We are exposed to exchange rate transaction risk on foreign China expected to be higher by approximately 60 million tonnes currency sales and purchases as we believe that active currency in calendar year 2008 compared to 2007.
However, supply is hedging does not provide long-term benefits to our shareholders.
now beginning to catch up with demand at the close of FY2008 as Because a majority of our sales are denominated in US dollars, expansion volumes from Vale, Rio Tinto, BHP Billiton, Fortescue and the US dollar otherwise plays a dominant role in our Metals Group and Indian suppliers reach the market.
Benchmark business, we borrow and hold surplus cash predominantly prices increased 96.5 per cent for lump and 79.9 per cent for fines in US dollars to provide a natural hedge.
Operating costs and effective from 1 April 2008, reflecting the continued optimism in costs of local equipment are influenced by the fluctuations in the the steel and iron ore markets.
Spot market prices remain higher Australian dollar, South African rand, Chilean peso and Brazilian than benchmark prices for Australian suppliers with the newly real.
Foreign exchange gains and losses reflected in operating established forward curve for iron ore prices currently showing costs owing to fluctuations in the abovementioned currencies US$170175 dmt CFR China for the period to June 2009. relative to the US dollar may potentially offset one another.
The Australian dollar, Chilean peso and Brazilian real generally Metallurgical coal: Markets remained very tight due to strong strengthened against the US dollar throughout FY2008, while Indian demand and tightening Chinese markets, leading to a the South African rand generally weakened.
record contract price settlement for metallurgical coal, with an average price increase of 206 per cent effective from We are also exposed to exchange rate translation risk in 1 April 2008.
Chinese coke prices hit another record in relation to net monetary liabilities, being our foreign currency excess of US$650 per tonne.
denominated monetary assets and liabilities, including debt and other long-term liabilities other than closure and rehabilitation Energy coal: Global energy coal consumption has increased at provisions at operating sites where foreign currency gains and an average rate of 7.4 per cent per annum since 2002.
FY2008 losses are capitalised in property, plant and equipment.
witnessed strong growth in the energy sector on the back of significant rises in oil prices and this saw coal, despite the near The following table indicates the estimated impact on FY2008 record prices across all energy coal indices, remain the cheapest profit before taxation of a weakening of the US dollar against fossil fuel for electricity generation in most seaborne markets, the Australian dollar or South African rand, which are the two ahead of gas and oil, even when emissions costs credits are principal currencies outside of the US dollar to which we are accounted for.
Energy coal prices continued to strengthen as exposed in terms of our net monetary liabilities.
The sensitivities global seaborne supply struggled to match strong growth in give the estimated impact on profit before taxation based on the demand, particularly in the Pacific.
Other factors contributing to exchange rate movement in isolation.
The sensitivities assume high energy coal prices include a surge in freight rates, a weaker all variables except for exchange rate remain constant.
As US dollar relative to some of the key coal exporting country outlined above, there is an inter-relationship between currencies currencies and equally large increases in global oil and gas prices.
and commodity prices that is not reflected in the sensitivities below.
Movements in commodities prices can cause movements The following table indicates the estimated impact on FY2008 in exchange rates and vice versa.
These sensitivities should profit after taxation of changes in the prices of our commodities.
therefore be used with care.
With the exception of price-linked costs, the sensitivities below assume that all other variables, such as exchange rate, Estimated impact on FY2008 profit before taxation costs, volumes and taxation, remain constant.
There is an of a weakening US dollar against local currency: US$M inter-relationship between changes in commodity prices and Australian dollar US1 A$ changes in currencies that is not reflected in the sensitivities 1 Net monetary liabilities 18 below.
Volumes are based on FY2008 actual results and sales prices of our commodities under a mix of short-, mediumSouth African rand 0.2 rand US$ 1 and long-term contracts.
Movements in commodities prices Net monetary liabilities 13 can cause movements in exchange rates and vice versa.
1 Rand debt 4 These sensitivities should therefore be used with care.
1 Impact based on difference in opening and closing exchange rates Estimated impact on FY2008 profit for the period.
after taxation of changes of: US$M The impact of exchange rate movements in the current year US$1 bbl on oil price 32 is discussed in section 3.6 Operating results.
US1 lb on aluminium price 24 US1 lb on copper price 26 3.4.
3 Interest rates US1 lb on nickel price 2 We are exposed to interest rate risk on our outstanding US$1 t on iron ore price 62 borrowings and investments.
Our policy on interest rate exposure is for interest on our borrowings to be on a US dollar US$1 t on metallurgical coal price 27 floating interest rate basis.
Deviation from our policy requires US$1 t on energy coal price 24 the prior approval of our Financial Risk Management Committee, and is managed within our Cash Flow at Risk CFaR limit, The impact of the commodity price movements in FY2008 which is described in note 26 Financial risk management in the is discussed in section 3.6 Operating results.
When required under this strategy, we use interest rate swaps, including cross currency interest rate swaps, to convert a fixed rate exposure to a floating rate exposure.
As at 30 June 2008, we had US$1.6 billion of fixed interest borrowings that had not been swapped to floating rates, arising principally from legacy positions that were in existence prior to the merger that created the DLC structure.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 99 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
