11 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION continued 11.5 Taxation continued The amount of any cash distribution paid in any foreign currency will be equal to the US dollar value of such currency, US taxation calculated by reference to the spot rate in effect on the date This section describes the material US federal income tax such distribution is received by the US holder or, in the case of consequences to a US holder of owning ordinary shares or ADSs.
ADSs, by the Depositary, regardless of whether and when the It applies only to ordinary shares or ADSs that are held as capital foreign currency is in fact converted into US dollars.
If the foreign assets for tax purposes.
This section does not apply to a holder currency is converted into US dollars on the date received, the of ordinary shares or ADSs who is a member of a special class of US holder generally should not recognise foreign currency gain or holders subject to special rules, including a dealer in securities, loss on such conversion.
If the foreign currency is not converted a trader in securities who elects to use a mark-to-market into US dollars on the date received, the US holder will have method of accounting for their securities holdings, a tax-exempt a basis in the foreign currency equal to its US dollar value on organisation, a life insurance company, a person liable for the date received, and will recognise foreign currency gain alternative minimum tax, a person who actually or constructively or loss on a subsequent conversion or other disposal of such owns 10 per cent or more of the voting stock of BHP Billiton Plc, currency.
Such foreign currency gain or loss generally will a person who holds ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle be treated as US source ordinary income or loss.
or a hedging or conversion transaction, or a US holder whose Dividends will be income from sources outside the US, functional currency is not the US dollar.
and generally will be passive category income or, for certain This section is based in part upon the representations of taxpayers, general category income, which in either case the Depositary and the assumption that each obligation is treated separately from each other and other types of income in the deposit agreement and any related agreement will for purposes of computing the foreign tax credit allowable be performed in accordance with their terms.
In general, for US federal income tax purposes, a holder of ADSs Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs will be treated as the owner of the ordinary shares represented A US holder who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares by those ADSs.
Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADSs, and ADSs or ADSs will recognise a capital gain or loss for US federal for ordinary shares will generally not be subject to US federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the income tax.
US dollar value of the amount realised and its tax basis, determined in US dollars, in those ordinary shares or ADSs.
Dividends The capital gain of a non-corporate US holder that is recognised Under US federal income tax laws, a US holder must include before 1 January 2011 is generally taxed at a rate of 15 per cent in its gross income the gross amount of any dividend paid by where the holder has a holding period greater than 12 months BHP Billiton Plc out of its current or accumulated earnings and in the shares or ADSs sold.
The gain or loss will generally profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign The dividend is taxable to the holder when the holder, in the tax credit limitation purposes.
case of ordinary shares, or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, receives the dividend, actually or constructively.
11.6 Ancillary information for our shareholders Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder on shares or ADSs in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2011 will be taxable Information for BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc shareholders this year is provided in the BHP Billiton Group at the rate applicable to long-term capital gains generally at a rate of 15 per cent provided that the ADSs remain readily Annual Report 2008 and the Business Review 2008. tradeable on an established securities market in the US and the The Annual Report provides the detailed financial data and US holder holds the shares or ADSs for more than 60 days during information on the BHP Billiton Groups performance required the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend to comply with the reporting regimes in Australia, UK and the date, and does not enter into certain risk reduction transactions US.
There are no specific disclosure requirements for the Business with respect to the shares or ADSs during the abovementioned Review, which is published as an investor communication to those holding period.
In addition, a non-corporate US holder that BHP Billiton Limited shareholders that have requested a copy.
elects to treat the dividend income as investment income Information for BHP Billiton Plc shareholders is provided pursuant to Section 163 d 4 of the Code will not be eligible in the Concise Annual Report, which contains an overview of for the reduced rate of taxation.
In the case of a corporate BHP Billiton Groups performance, including summary financials, US holder, dividends on shares and ADSs are taxed as ordinary required to meet the UK reporting requirements.
The summary income and will not be eligible for the dividends received financial statements and accompanying notes in the Concise deduction generally allowed to US corporations in respect Annual Report cannot provide as full an understanding of the of dividends received from other US corporations.
financial performance, position and funding, and investing Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings activities of the BHP Billiton Group as the complete financial and profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, statements included in the Annual Report.
will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the ordinary shares or ADSs and thereafter as a capital gain.
266 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
indb 266 9 9 12 08 9:55:05 AM 12 08 9:55:05 AM 11.6 Ancillary information for our shareholders continued Key dates for shareholders Shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited will receive a copy of the The following table sets out future dates in the next financial Annual Report or the Business Review if they have requested and calendar year of interest to our shareholders.
This is in accordance with changes to the distribution are any changes to these dates, all relevant stock exchanges obligations for listed companies under the Australian see section 11.1 will be notified.
Shareholders of BHP Billiton Plc will receive Date Event the Concise Annual Report unless they have opted to receive the Annual Report.
ADR holders may view all documents 25 September 2008 Payment date for Final Dividend online at www.
com or opt to receive a hard copy 23 October 2008 BHP Billiton Plc Annual General Meeting by application to the appropriate BHP Billiton Share Registrar.
in London Venue: Change of shareholder details and enquiries The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre Shareholders wishing to contact BHP Billiton on any matter Broad Sanctuary relating to their share or ADR holdings are invited to telephone Westminster the appropriate office of the BHP Billiton Share Registrar listed London SW1P 3EE on the inside back cover of the Annual Report.
UK Time: 10.30am local time Please ensure any changes to your shareholding details Details of the business of the meeting are are notified to the relevant Registrar in a timely manner.
contained in the separate Notice of Meeting Shareholders can also access their current shareholding details 27 November 2008 BHP Billiton Limited Annual General Meeting and change many of these details online via BHP Billitons in Melbourne website www.
The website requires you Venue: to quote your Shareholder Reference Number SRN or Holder Melbourne Park Function Centre Identification Number HIN in order to access this information.
Entrance D off Olympic Boulevard formerly Swan Street Access the Annual Report, Business Review and Melbourne Victoria 3001 Concise Annual Report on the web Australia BHP Billiton Limited shareholder will be notified by email when the Time: 10.30am local time Business Review and Annual Report have been released, unless Details of the business of the meeting are they have opted to receive a hard copy of these publications.
contained in the separate Notice of Meeting We offer an alternative for BHP Billiton Plc shareholders who 4 February 2009 Interim Results Announced wish to be advised of the availability of the Concise Annual Report and Annual Report through our website via an email notification.
27 February 2009 Interim Dividend Record Date By providing an email address through our website, shareholders 17 March 2009 Interim Dividend Payment Date will be notified by email when the Concise Annual Report and Annual Report have been released.
Shareholders will also receive 12 August 2009 Annual Results Announced notification of other major BHP Billiton announcements by email.
If you require further information or you would like to make use of this service, please visit our website www.
ADR holders and holders of shares dematerialised into STRATE should approach the appropriate BHP Billiton Share Registrar.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 267 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
indb 267 9 9 12 08 9:55:05 AM 12 08 9:55:05 AM This document is issued subject to the Important Notices satisfaction of any conditions to any proposed transaction, appearing below.
including the receipt of required regulatory and anti-trust approvals, Rio Tintos willingness to enter into any proposed The Directors of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc transaction, the successful completion of any transaction, and BHP Billiton accept responsibility for the information contained the risk factors discussed in BHP Billitons and Rio Tintos filings in this report.
Having taken all reasonable care to ensure that such with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC including is the case, the information contained in this report is, to the best in Annual Reports on Form 20-F which are available at the SECs of the knowledge and belief of the Directors of BHP Billiton, website http: www.
Save as required by law or the rules in accordance with the facts and contains no omission likely of the UK Listing Authority and the London Stock Exchange, the to affect its import.
UK Takeover Panel, or the listing rules of ASX Limited, BHP Billiton Subject to the above, neither BHP Billiton nor any of its Directors, undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements officers, employees or advisers nor any other person makes in this presentation.
any representation or warranty, express or implied, as to, and Information Relating to the US Offer for Rio Tinto plc accordingly no reliance should be placed on, the fairness, accuracy or completeness of the information contained in the report or of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton plan to the views given or implied.
To the extent permitted by law, neither register the offer and sale of securities it would issue to Rio Tinto BHP Billiton nor any of its Directors, officers, employees or advisers plc US shareholders and Rio Tinto plc ADS holders by filing with the nor any other person shall have any liability whatsoever for any US Securities and Exchange Commission the SEC a Registration errors or omissions or any loss howsoever arising, directly or Statement the Registration Statement, which will contain a indirectly, from any use of this information or its contents or prospectus the Prospectus, as well as other relevant materials.
otherwise arising in connection therewith.
Information about No such materials have yet been filed.
This communication is not Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited Rio Tinto is based on a substitute for any Registration Statement or Prospectus that public information which has not been independently verified.
BHP Billiton may file with the SEC.
This report is for information purposes only and does not constitute US INVESTORS AND US HOLDERS OF RIO TINTO PLC SECURITIES or form part of any offer for sale or issue of any securities or an AND ALL HOLDERS OF RIO TINTO PLC ADSs ARE URGED TO READ offer or invitation to purchase or subscribe for any such securities, ANY REGISTRATION STATEMENT, PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER nor shall it or any part of it be relied on in connection with, any DOCUMENTS MADE AVAILABLE TO THEM AND OR FILED WITH contract or investment decision, nor does it constitute a proposal THE SEC REGARDING THE POTENTIAL TRANSACTION, AS WELL AS to make a takeover bid or the solicitation of any vote or approval ANY AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS TO THOSE DOCUMENTS, in any jurisdiction, nor shall there be any sale of securities in WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be IMPORTANT INFORMATION.
unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities Investors and security holders will be able to obtain a free copy laws of any such jurisdiction or under an exemption from such of the Registration Statement and the Prospectus as well as requirements.
No offering of securities shall be made into the other relevant documents filed with the SEC at the SECs website United States except pursuant to registration under the US Securities http: www.
gov, once such documents are filed with the SEC.
Act of 1933, as amended, or an exemption therefrom.
Neither this Copies of such documents may also be obtained from BHP Billiton report nor any copy of it may be taken or transmitted or distributed without charge, once they are filed with the SEC.
or redistributed directly or indirectly in Japan.
The distribution of Information for US Holders of Rio Tinto Limited Shares this document in other jurisdictions may be restricted by law and BHP Billiton Limited is not required to, and does not plan to, persons into whose possession this document comes should inform prepare and file with the SEC a registration statement in respect themselves about, and observe, any such restrictions.
of the Rio Tinto Limited Offer.
Accordingly, Rio Tinto Limited No statement concerning expected cost savings, revenue benefits shareholders should carefully consider the following: and resulting incremental EBITDA and EPS accretion in this report The Rio Tinto Limited Offer will be an exchange offer made for the should be interpreted to mean that the future earnings per share securities of a foreign company.
Such offer is subject to disclosure of the enlarged BHP Billiton Group for current and future financial requirements of a foreign country that are different from those of years will necessarily match or exceed the historical or published the United States.
Financial statements included in the document earnings per share of BHP Billiton, and the actual estimated cost will be prepared in accordance with foreign accounting standards savings and revenue benefits and resulting EBITDA enhancement that may not be comparable to the financial statements of United may be materially greater or less than estimated.
Certain statements in this presentation are forward-looking Information Relating to the US Offer for Rio Tinto plc and statements including statements regarding contribution the Rio Tinto Limited Offer for Rio Tinto shareholders located synergies, future cost savings, the cost and timing of development in the US projects, future production volumes, increases in production and infrastructure capacity, the identification of additional mineral It may be difficult for you to enforce your rights and any claim Reserves and Resources and project lives and, without limitation, you may have arising under the US federal securities laws, since other statements typically containing words such as intends, the issuers are located in a foreign country, and some or all of expects, anticipates, targets, plans, estimates and words of their officers and Directors may be residents of foreign countries.
These statements are based on current expectations You may not be able to sue a foreign company or its officers or and beliefs and numerous assumptions regarding BHP Billitons Directors in a foreign court for violations of the US securities laws.
present and future business strategies and the environments in It may be difficult to compel a foreign company and its affiliates which BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto will operate in the future and such to subject themselves to a US courts judgement.
assumptions, expectations and beliefs may or may not prove to be You should be aware that BHP Billiton may purchase securities correct and by their nature, are subject to a number of known and of either Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited otherwise than unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, under the exchange offer, such as in open market or privately performance and achievements to differ materially.
Factors that could cause actual results or performance to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, BHP Billitons ability to successfully combine the businesses of BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto and to realise expected synergies from that combination, the presence of a competitive proposal in relation to Rio Tinto, 268 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
