10 GLOSSARY continued Market value US$ The market value based on closing prices, or, in instances Currency of the United States of America and the functional when an executive exercises and sells shares, the actual sale currency of the BHP Billiton Group.
Voluntary community contribution Occupational exposure limit Contributions made to support communities in which we The level of exposure to an agent to which it is believed that operate.
Our contributions to community programs comprise nearly all workers may be repeatedly exposed, throughout cash, in-kind support and administration costs.
Our targeted a working life, without adverse health effects.
Occupational level of contribution is one per cent of pre-tax profit calculated Exposure Limits are established for chemical and physical on the average of the previous three years pre-tax profit.
agents and may be expressed as time-weighted average, Zero Harm ceiling or short-term exposure limits.
BHP Billitons aspirational goal that reflects our continual drive Occupational illness to minimise harm to people, our host communities and the An occupational illness is an illness that occurs as a consequence environment from our activities.
of work-related activities or exposure.
It includes acute or chronic illnesses or diseases, which may be caused by inhalation, 10.2 Mining and mining-related terms absorption, ingestion or direct contact.
Alumina Option Aluminium oxide Al O. Alumina is produced from bauxite 2 3 A right to acquire a share on payment of an exercise price in the refining process.
Alumina is then converted reduced issued under the rules of the GIS.
in an electrolysis cell to produce aluminium metal.
Performance share Bauxite A nil-priced option or a conditional right to acquire a share, Chief ore of aluminium.
subject to a Performance Hurdle, issued under the rules of the LTIP.
Bio-leaching Use of naturally occurring bacteria, to leach a metal from ore: Performance share plan for example, copper, zinc, uranium, nickel and cobalt from A share plan that commenced under the jurisdiction a sulphide mineral.
of BHP Limited or Billiton Plc and prior to the formation of BHP Billiton.
Brownfield A exploration or development project located within an Project investment existing mineral province which can share infrastructure Total budgeted capital expenditure on growth projects under and management with an existing operation.
2 Growth projects, for a full listing of these growth projects.
Coal Reserves The same meaning as Ore Reserves, but specifically Restricted Share Scheme concerning coal.
Coking coal Return on capital employed By virtue of its carbonisation properties, is used in the Return on capital employed is calculated as earnings from manufacture of coke, which is used in the steelmaking process.
operations excluding exceptional items and net finance costs Coking coal may also be referred to as metallurgical coal.
after tax, divided by average capital employed.
Average capital Condensate employed is calculated as net assets less net debt.
A mixture of hydrocarbons that exist in gaseous form in natural underground reservoirs, but which condense to form a liquid Shareplus at atmospheric conditions.
All employee share purchase plan.
Copper cathode Significant environmental incident Electrolytically refined copper that has been deposited on A significant environmental incident is an occurrence that has the cathode of an electrolytic bath of acidified copper sulphate resulted in or had the potential to cause significant environmental solution.
The refined copper may also be produced through harm.
Our definition of significant is conservative to ensure leaching and electrowinning.
all learnings are captured from relevant HSEC incidents.
Such Crude oil an incident is rated at level 3 or above on the BHP Billiton HSEC A mixture of hydrocarbons that exist in liquid form in natural Consequence Severity Table which may be viewed at BHP Billiton 2008 Full Sustainability Report HSEC Targets Scorecard underground reservoirs, and remain liquid at atmospheric pressure after being produced at the well head and passing BHP Billiton HSEC Consequence Severity Table.
Total Recordable Injuries Frequency Rate Cut-off grade Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate Fatalities A nominated grade above which is defined some mineral aspect of Lost Time Cases Restricted Work Cases Medical Treatment the reserve.
For example, the lowest grade of mineralised material Cases 1,000,000 work hours.
that qualifies as economic for estimating an Ore Reserves.
Total shareholder return Electrowinning electrowon The change in share price plus dividends.
An electrochemical process in which metal is recovered by Underlying EBIT margin dissolving a metal within an electrolyte and plating it onto Calculated as Underlying EBIT as defined in section 3.6.
excluding third party EBIT, divided by Revenue net of Energy coal third party product revenue.
Used as a fuel source in electrical power generation, cement manufacture and various industrial applications.
Energy coal may also be referred to as steaming or thermal coal.
254 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
indb 254 9 9 12 08 9:55:04 AM 12 08 9:55:04 AM Ethane Proved oil and gas reserves Where sold separately, is largely ethane gas that has been The estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural liquefied through pressurisation.
One tonne of ethane is gas liquids that geological and engineering data demonstrate approximately equivalent to 26.8 thousand cubic feet of gas.
with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating Flotation conditions i. e. prices and costs as of the date the estimate A method of selectively recovering minerals from finely ground is made.
ore using a froth created in water by specific reagents.
In the Proved Ore Reserves flotation process, certain mineral particles are induced to float by becoming attached to bubbles of froth and the unwanted Reserves for which a quantity is computed from dimensions mineral particles sink.
revealed in outcrops, trenches and workings on drill holes and grade and or quality are computed from the results of detailed Grade samplings: and b the sites for inspection, sampling and The relative quantity, or the percentage, of metal or mineral measurement are spaced so closely and the geological character content in an orebody.
is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established.
Greenfield The development or exploration located outside the area Reserve life of influence of existing mine operations infrastructure.
Current stated ore reserves divided by the current approved nominal production rate.
Head grade The average grade of ore delivered to a process for Run of mine product mineral extraction.
Product mined in the course of regular mining activities.
Heap leach ing A process used for the recovery of metals such as copper, nickel, Rutile uranium and gold from low-grade ores.
The crushed material It is an ore of titanium composed of titanium and oxygen TiO.
2 is laid on a slightly sloping, impermeable pad and leached by uniformly trickling gravity fed a chemical solution through Solvent extraction the beds to ponds.
The metals are recovered from the solution.
A method of separating one or more metals from a leach solution by treating with a solvent that will extract the required metal, Ilmenite leaving the others.
The metal is recovered from the solvent by The principle ore of titanium composed of iron, titanium and further treatment.
3 Spud Leaching Commence drilling of an oil or gas well.
The process by which a soluble metal can be economically recovered from minerals in ore by dissolution.
Stockpile An accumulation of ore or mineral built up when demand Liquefied natural gas LNG slackens or when the treatment plant or beneficiation equipment Consists largely of methane that has been liquefied through is incomplete or temporarily unequal to handling the mine chilling and pressurisation.
One tonne of LNG is approximately output: any heap of material formed to create a reserve equivalent to 45.9 thousand cubic feet of natural gas.
for loading or other purposes or material dug and piled for future use.
Liquefied petroleum gas LPG Consists of propane and butane and a small amount Tailing less than two per cent of ethane that has been liquefied Those portions of washed or milled ore that are too poor to be through pressurisation.
One tonne of LPG is approximately treated further or remain after the required metals and minerals equivalent to 11.6 barrels.
Marketable Coal Reserves Total Coal Reserves Represents beneficiated or otherwise enhanced coal product Run of mine reserves as outputs from the mining activities.
and should be read in conjunction with, but not instead of, reports of coal reserves.
Total Marketable Reserves Product reserves as outputs from processing plant which Metallurgical coal includes sizing and beneficiation.
A broader term than coking coal, which includes all coals used in steelmaking, such as coal used for the pulverised Total Ore Reserves coal injection process.
Represent Proved Ore Reserves plus Probable Ore Reserves.
Open-cut open-pit Underground UG Surface working in which the working area is kept open Natural or man-made excavation under the surface of the Earth.
Ore Reserves Zircon That part of a mineral deposit that could be economically It is the chief ore of zirconium composed of zirconium, silicon and legally extracted or produced at the time of the and oxygen ZrSiO.
Probable Ore Reserves Reserves for which quantity and grade and or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven measured reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced.
The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven measured reserves, is high enough to assure continuity between points of observation.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 255 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
