11 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION continued Payments 11.3 Dividends BHP Billiton Limited shareholders may have their cash dividends Policy paid directly into a nominated bank, building society or credit We have a progressive dividend policy that seeks to steadily union, depending on the shareholders country of residence increase or at least to maintain the dividend in US dollars as shown below.
at each half yearly payment provided that we generate Country where shareholder is resident Financial institution sufficient profit and cash flow to do so.
Australia Bank, building society, Because the US dollar is our main reporting currency, credit union we declare our dividends and other distributions in US dollars.
BHP Billiton Limited pays its dividends in Australian dollars, UK Bank, building society British pounds, New Zealand dollars or US dollars, depending New Zealand Bank on the country of residence of the shareholder.
BHP Billiton Plc US Bank pays its dividends in British pounds to shareholders registered on its principal register in the UK and South African rand to Shareholders from the abovementioned locations who do not shareholders registered on its branch register in South Africa.
provide their direct credit details and shareholders with registered If shareholders wish to alter the currency in which they receive addresses outside Australia, UK, New Zealand and US will receive dividends they must complete an appropriate election form and dividend payments by way of a cheque in Australian dollars.
return it to the BHP Billiton Share Registrar no later than two BHP Billiton Plc shareholders may have their cash dividends paid days prior to the announcement of the next dividend.
directly into a bank or building society by completing a dividend mandate form which is available from the BHP Billiton Share Registrar in the UK or South Africa.
11.4 Share price information The following tables show the share prices for the period indicated for ordinary shares and ADSs for each of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
The share prices are the highest and lowest closing market quotations for ordinary shares reported on the Daily Official List of the Australian and London Stock Exchange respectively, and the highest and lowest closing prices for ADSs quoted on the NYSE, adjusted to reflect stock dividends.
262 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
