2 Operational information Our Board and Group Management Committee monitor a range of financial and operational performance indicators, reported on a monthly basis, to measure performance over time.
We also monitor a comprehensive set of health, safety, environment and community contribution indicators.
2008 2007 2006 People and Licence to operate Health, safety, environment and community a Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate TRIFR 5.9 7.4 8.7 a Voluntary community contribution US$M 141.0 103.4 81.3 Production Total petroleum products million barrels of oil equivalent 129.50 116.19 117.36 Alumina 000 tonnes 4,554 4,460 4,187 Aluminium 000 tonnes 1,298 1,340 1,362 Copper cathode and concentrate 000 tonnes 1,375.5 1,250.1 1,267.8 Nickel 000 tonnes 167.9 187.2 176.2 Iron ore 000 tonnes 112,260 99,424 97,072 Metallurgical coal 000 tonnes 35,193 38,429 35,643 Energy coal 000 tonnes 80,868 87,025 85,756 a Refer to section 10 Glossary for definitions.
in which the costs of imported equipment and services 1.5 Risk factors are determined.
The Australian dollar, South African rand, We believe that, because of the international scope of our Chilean peso, Brazilian real and US dollar are the most operations and the industries in which we are engaged, important currencies influencing our operating costs.
there are numerous factors which may have an effect Given the dominant role of the US currency in our affairs, on our results and operations.
The following describes the US dollar is the currency in which we present financial the material risks that could affect the BHP Billiton Group.
It is also the natural currency for borrowing and holding surplus cash.
We do not generally believe that Fluctuations in commodity prices may negatively impact active currency hedging provides long-term benefits to our our results shareholders.
We may consider currency protection measures The prices we obtain for our oil, gas, minerals and other appropriate in specific commercial circumstances, subject commodities are determined by, or linked to, prices in world to strict limits established by our Board.
Therefore, in any markets, which have historically been subject to substantial particular year, currency fluctuations may have a significant variations.
The Groups usual policy is to sell its products at the impact on our financial results.
The diversity provided by the Groups broad portfolio of commodities may not fully insulate the effects Failure to discover new reserves, maintain or enhance existing reserves or develop new operations could negatively affect of price changes.
Fluctuations in commodity prices can occur due to sustained price shifts reflecting underlying global our future results and financial condition economic and geopolitical factors, industry demand and supply The increased demand for commodities in recent years has balances, product substitution and national tariffs.
Additionally, resulted in existing reserves being depleted at an accelerated the volatility in prices for most of our commodities will occur.
Because our revenues and profits are related to our oil The synchronisation of global commodity markets and influence and gas and minerals operations, our results and financial of demand from China has in recent years impacted and conditions are directly related to the success of our exploration may continue to impact price volatility.
The impact on global and acquisition efforts, and our ability to replace existing economic growth, particularly in the developed economies, reserves.
The depletion of reserves has necessitated increased of the US sub-prime-induced global liquidity crisis may impact exploration adjacent to established operations and development demand and prices for commodities.
The influence of hedge of new operations in less-developed countries.
Additionally and other financial investment funds participating in commodity these activities may increase land tenure, infrastructure and markets has increased in recent years contributing to higher related political risks.
The rapid growth in demand for mining levels of price volatility.
The impact of potential longer-term and petroleum industry related technical skills, supplies and sustained price shifts and shorter-term price volatility creates critical equipment has led to shortages and delays in these the risk that our financial and operating results and asset values areas.
A failure in our ability to discover new reserves, will be materially and adversely affected by unforeseen declines enhance existing reserves or develop new operations in the prevailing prices of our products.
in sufficient quantities to maintain or grow the current level of our reserves could negatively affect our results, Our profits may be negatively affected by currency exchange financial condition and prospects.
rate fluctuations There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating Our assets, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a wide ore and oil and gas reserves and geological, technical and variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the economic assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation countries in which we operate.
Fluctuations in the exchange may change significantly when new information becomes rates of those currencies may have a significant impact on available.
Reserve restatements could negatively affect our financial results.
The US dollar is the currency in which our reputation, results, financial condition and prospects.
the majority of our sales are denominated.
Operating costs are influenced by the currencies of those countries where our mines and processing plants are located and also by those currencies BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 9 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
indb 9 9 9 12 08 9:54:31 AM 12 08 9:54:31 AM 1 KEY INFORMATION continued We operate in several countries where ownership of land 1.5 Risk factors continued is uncertain and where disputes may arise in relation to Reduction in Chinese demand may negatively impact our results ownership.
In Australia, the Native Title Act 1993 provides for The Chinese market has become a significant source of global the establishment and recognition of native title under certain circumstances.
In South Africa, the Extension of Security of demand for commodities.
China now represents in excess of 53 per cent of global seaborne iron ore demand, 25 per cent Tenure Act 1997 and the Restitution of Land Rights Act 1994 provide for various landholding rights.
Such legislation could of copper demand, 24 per cent of nickel demand and 16 per cent of energy demand.
Chinas demand for these commodities has negatively affect new or existing projects.
been driving global materials demand over the past decade.
We may not be able to successfully integrate While this increase represents a significant business opportunity, our acquired businesses our exposure to Chinas economic fortunes and economic policies We have grown our business in part through acquisitions.
Sales into China generated US$11.7 billion or We expect that some of our future growth will stem from 19.8 per cent of revenue in the year ended 30 June 2008. acquisitions.
There are numerous risks encountered in In recent years, strong economic growth and infrastructure business combinations.
These include adverse regulatory development in China has resulted in higher prices for the conditions and obligations, commercial objectives not commodities we produce.
A slowing in Chinas economic growth, achieved due to minority interests, unforeseen liabilities potentially impacted by slowing developed economies, could arising from the acquired businesses, retention of key staff, result in lower prices for our products and therefore reduce anticipated synergies and cost savings being delayed or not our revenues.
being achieved, uncertainty in sales proceeds from planned divestments, and planned expansion projects are delayed In response to its increased demand for commodities, China is or higher cost than anticipated.
These factors could negatively increasingly seeking strategic self-sufficiency in key commodities, affect our financial condition and results of operations.
including investments in additional developments in other countries.
These investments may impact future commodity We may not recover our investments in mining and oil demand and supply balances and prices.
and gas projects Actions by governments or political events in the countries in Our operations may be impacted by changed market or industry structures, commodity prices, technical operating difficulties, which we operate could have a negative impact on our business inability to recover our mineral, oil or gas reserves and increased We have operations in many countries around the globe some operating cost levels.
These may impact the ability for assets of which have varying degrees of political and commercial to recover their historical investment and may require financial stability.
We operate in emerging markets, which may involve write-downs adversely impacting our financial results.
additional risks that could have an adverse impact upon the profitability of an operation.
These risks could include terrorism, Our non-controlled assets may not comply with our standards civil unrest, nationalisation, renegotiation or nullification of Some of our assets are controlled and managed by joint venture existing contracts, leases, permits or other agreements, and partners or by other companies.
Some joint venture partners may changes in laws and policy as well as other unforeseeable risks.
have divergent business objectives which may impact business Risks relating to bribery and corruption may be prevalent in some and financial results.
Management of our non-controlled assets of the countries in which we operate.
If one or more of these may not comply with our management and operating standards, risks occurs at one of our major projects, it could have a negative controls and procedures including health, safety, environment.
effect on the operations in those countries as well as the Groups Failure to adopt equivalent standards, controls and procedures overall operating results and financial condition.
at these assets could lead to higher costs and reduced Our business could be adversely affected by new government production and adversely impact our results and reputation.
regulation such as controls on imports, exports and prices, new forms or rates of taxation and royalties.
Increasing requirements Operating cost pressures and shortages could negatively relating to regulatory, environmental and social approvals can impact our operations and expansion plans potentially result in significant delays in construction and may The strong commodity cycle and large numbers of projects being adversely impact upon the economics of new mining and oil developed in the resources industry has led to increased demand and gas projects, the expansion of existing operations and for and shortages in skilled personnel, contractors, materials results of our operations.
and supplies that are required as critical inputs to our existing operations and planned developments.
Labour unions may seek Infrastructure such as rail, ports, power and water is critical to secure an increased share of the economic rent in the current to our business operations.
We have operations or potential environment.
A number of key cost inputs consumed in our development projects in countries where government provided operations are commodity price-linked and have consequently infrastructure or regulatory regimes for access to infrastructure, been impacted by the higher commodity price environment.
including our own privately operated infrastructure, may be inadequate or uncertain.
These may adversely impact the A number of our operations are energy or water intensive and, efficient operations and expansion of our businesses.
as a result, the Groups costs and earnings could be adversely affected by rising costs or by supply interruptions.
These could In South Africa, the Mineral and Petroleum Resources include: the unavailability of energy, fuel or water due to a variety Development Act 2002 MPRDA came into effect on 1 May 2004. of reasons including fluctuations in climate, significant increase The law provides for the conversion of existing mining rights in costs, inadequate infrastructure capacity, interruptions in so called Old Order Rights to rights under the new regime supply due to equipment failure or other causes, and the inability New Order Rights subject to certain undertakings to be made to extend supply contracts on economical terms.
by the company applying for such conversion.
The Mining Charter requires that mining companies achieve 15 per cent ownership These factors have led, and could continue to lead to, increased by historically disadvantaged South Africans of South African capital and operating costs at existing operations, as well as mining assets within five years and 26 per cent ownership within impacting the cost and schedule of projects under development.
If we are unable to convert our South African mining Industrial action may impact our operations resulting in lost rights in accordance with the MPRDA and the Mining Charter, production and revenues.
we could lose some of those rights.
10 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
indb 10 9 9 12 08 9:54:31 AM 12 08 9:54:31 AM Climate change and greenhouse effects may adversely impact 1.5 Risk factors continued our operations and markets Health, safety and environmental exposures and We are a major producer of energy-related products such as related regulations may impact our operations energy coal, oil, gas, liquefied natural gas and uranium.
Energy and reputation negatively is also a significant input in a number of the Groups mining and The nature of the industries in which we operate means processing operations.
There is a substantial weight of scientific that our activities are highly regulated by health, safety and evidence concluding that CO emissions from fossil fuel based 2 environmental laws.
As regulatory standards and expectations energy consumption contribute to global warming, greenhouse are constantly developing, we may be exposed to increased effects and climate change.
litigation, compliance costs and unforeseen environmental A number of governments or governmental bodies have remediation expenses.
introduced or are contemplating regulatory change in response Potential health, safety and environmental events that may to the impacts of climate change.
The December 1997 Kyoto materially impact our operations include rockfall incidents Protocol established a set of greenhouse gas emission targets in underground mining operations, aircraft incidents, light for developed countries that have ratified the Protocol.
The vehicle incidents, explosions or gas leaks, incidents involving European Union Emissions Trading System EU ETS, which came mobile equipment, uncontrolled tailings breaches or escape into effect on 1 January 2005, has had an impact on greenhouse of polluting substances.
gas and energy-intensive businesses based in the EU.
Our Petroleum assets in the UK are currently subject to the EU ETS Longer-term health impacts may arise due to unanticipated as are our EU based customers.
Elsewhere, there is current workplace exposures by employees or site contractors.
These and emerging climate change regulation that will affect energy effects may create future financial compensation obligations.
prices, demand and margins for carbon intensive products.
We provide for mine and site remediation.
We have mine closure The Australian Governments plan of action on climate change plans for all of our operating and closed mine sites.
Changes in includes the introduction of a national emissions trading scheme regulatory or community expectations may result in the relevant by 2010 and a mandatory renewable energy target of 20 per cent plans not being adequate.
This may impact financial provisioning by the year 2020.
From a medium and long-term perspective, and costs at the affected operations.
we are likely to see changes in the margins of our  assets and energy-intensive assets as a result We contribute to the communities in which we operate by of regulatory impacts in the countries in which we operate.
providing skilled employment opportunities, salaries and wages, These regulatory mechanisms may be either voluntary or taxes and royalties and community development programs.
legislated and may impact our operations directly or indirectly Notwithstanding these actions, local communities may become via our customers.
Inconsistency of regulations particularly dissatisfied with the impact of our operations, potentially between developed and developing countries may also change affecting costs and production, and in extreme cases viability.
the attractiveness of the locations of some of our assets.
Legislation requiring manufacturers, importers and downstream Assessments of the potential impact of future climate change users of chemical substances, including metals and minerals, regulation are uncertain given the wide scope of potential to establish that the substances can be used without negatively regulatory change in the many countries in which we operate.
affecting health or the environment may impact our operations The physical impacts of climate change on our operations and markets.
These potential compliance costs, litigation are highly uncertain and will be particular to the geographic expenses, regulatory delays, remediation expenses and circumstances.
These may include changes in rainfall patterns, operational costs could negatively affect our financial results.
water shortages, rising sea levels, increased storm intensities, We may continue to be exposed to increased operational costs and higher average temperature levels.
These effects due to the costs and lost time associated with the HIV AIDS may adversely impact the cost, production and financial and malaria infection rate mainly within our African workforce.
Because we operate globally, we may be affected by potential avian flu outbreaks in any of the regions in which we operate.
Our human resource talent pool may not be adequate to support the Groups growth Despite our best efforts and best intentions, there remains a risk that health, safety and or environmental incidents or accidents The current strong commodity cycle and our pipeline of may occur that may negatively impact our reputation or licence development projects have increased demand for highly to operate.
skilled executives and staff with relevant industry and technical experience.
The inability of the Group and industry to attract Unexpected natural and operational catastrophes may impact and retain such people may adversely impact our ability our operations to adequately resource development projects and fill roles and vacancies in existing operations.
Similar shortages have We operate extractive, processing and logistical operations in many geographic locations both onshore and offshore.
also impacted and may continue to affect key engineering, technical service, construction and maintenance contractors Our operational processes and geographic locations may be subject to operational accidents such as port and shipping utilised by us in development projects and existing operations.
These shortages may adversely impact the cost and schedule incidents, fire and explosion, pitwall failures, loss of power supply, railroad incidents and mechanical failures.
Our operations may of development projects and the cost and efficiency of existing operations.
also be subject to unexpected natural catastrophes such as earthquakes, flood, hurricanes and tsunamis.
Existing business continuity plans and insurance arrangements may not provide protection for all of the costs that may arise from such events.
The impact of these events could lead to disruptions in production and loss of facilities adversely affecting our financial results.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 11 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
