1 Group Management Committee continued Global Ethics Panel The members of the GMC are: The CEO has formed a Global Ethics Panel to: Mr Marius Kloppers, Chief Executive Officer advise on matters affecting the values and behaviours of the Group and executive Director assist business leaders in assessing acceptable outcomes Mr Marcus Randolph, Group Executive and Chief Executive Ferrous and Coal on issues of business ethics Mr J Michael Yeager, Group Executive review the rationale, structure and content of the Code of Business Conduct and propose changes and Chief Executive Petroleum promote awareness and effective implementation Mr Alex Vanselow, Group Executive and Chief Financial Officer of the Code of Business Conduct.
Ms Karen Wood, Group Executive Panel members have been selected on the basis of their and Chief People Officer, and knowledge of and experience in contemporary aspects of ethics Mr Alberto Calderon, Group Executive and culture that are relevant to the Group and consists of both and Chief Commercial Officer.
The Panel is chaired by the Group Executive and Chief People Officer.
Mr Charles Goodyear was a member of the GMC until 30 September 2007.
Mr Andrew Mackenzie has been appointed, Employee help lines with effect from a date to be fixed, as Group Executive and We have established regional help lines so that employees can Chief Executive Non Ferrous.
Mr Mackenzie will be a member seek guidance or express concerns on business-related issues.
The biographical details of members of the GMC Reports can be made anonymously and without fear of retaliation.
are set out in section 4.2 of this Annual Report.
A fraud hotline facility is available for reporting cases of suspected misappropriations, fraud, bribery or corruption.
2 Other management Committees are in place to investigate such matters.
Where appropriate, The CEO draws on the work of other Committees to assist investigations are conducted independently.
Levels of activity in monitoring and achieving outcomes consistent with the and support processes for the employee and fraud help lines Corporate Objective.
The management Committees and are monitored with activity reports presented to the RAC and their purposes are listed below: the Board.
Further information on the Business Conduct Helpline Financial Risk Management Committee FRMC The FRMC and fraud hotline can be found in the Code of Business Conduct.
monitors the Groups financial risk management policies and exposures and approves financial transactions within the Political donations scope of its authority.
We maintain a position of impartiality with respect to party Investment Review Committee IRC The IRC oversees politics and do not contribute funds to any political party, the management approval processes for major investments, politician or candidate for public office.
We do, however, which are designed to ensure that investments are aligned contribute to the public debate of policy issues that may to our agreed strategies and values, risks are identified affect our business in the countries in which we operate.
and evaluated, investments are fully optimised to produce the maximum shareholder value within an acceptable risk framework, and appropriate risk management strategies 5.9 Market disclosure are pursued.
We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of disclosure ensuring that all investors and potential investors 5.8 Business conduct have the same access to high-quality, relevant information in an accessible and timely manner to assist them in making informed Code of Business Conduct decisions.
A Disclosure Committee manages our compliance We have published a Code of Business Conduct, which is with the market disclosure obligations and is responsible for available in eight languages.
The Code reflects our Charter implementing reporting processes and controls and setting values of integrity, respect, trust and openness.
It provides clear guidelines for the release of information.
direction and advice on conducting business internationally, Disclosure Officers have been appointed in each of the interacting with communities, governments and business Groups CSGs and Group Functions.
These officers are partners and general workplace behaviour.
The Code applies responsible for identifying and providing the Disclosure to Directors and to all employees, regardless of their position Committee with material information about the activities or location.
Consultants, contractors and business partners of the CSG or functional areas using disclosure guidelines are also expected to act in accordance with the Code.
The Code of Business Conduct can be found at our To safeguard the effective dissemination of information we website at www.
have developed a Market Disclosure and Communications Policy, which outlines how we identify and distribute information to Insider trading shareholders and market participants.
We have a Securities Dealing Code that covers dealings by A copy of the Market Disclosure and Directors and identified employees and a Securities Dealing Communications Policy is available at Policy that covers dealings by all other employees.
documents restrict dealings by Directors and employees in shares and other securities during designated prohibited periods Copies of announcements to the stock exchanges on which and at any time that they are in possession of unpublished we are listed, investor briefings, half yearly financial statements, price-sensitive information.
the Annual Report and other relevant information are posted to the Groups website at www.
Any person A copy of the Securities Dealing Code and Securities Dealing Policy can be found at our website at wishing to receive advice by email of news releases can www.
42 - BHP BILLITON PLC CONCISE ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5604 BHPB Concise Sec 5-BC.
