section 3 respected our people Our people, both employees and contractors, are the foundation on which all our activities rest.
Our success relies on identifying, recruiting, training, developing and retaining a talented, diverse, mobile and motivated workforce.
sarah Chinner, olympic Dam, Australia Zacarias Mussane, Mozal, Mozambique 20 - BHP Billiton PlC ConCise AnnuAl rePort 2008 Great assets need great people.
talented and motivated people are our most precious resource.
they form the fundamental platform of our strategic drivers and are essential to our success.
our people, wherever they are located, are our voice and our identity: they are our future.
PeoPle oUR FUtURe We continue to attract and retain skilled people despite a tight labour 41,000 market across the resources sector.
employees Karen Wood We are committed to open, honest Group executive and and productive relationships based Chief People officer on our Charter values, to providing a healthy and safe workplace, and to 61,000 in order to deliver on our aspiration to be the worlds best assisting our people in their personal contractors resources company, we need to act in a consistent manner development.
We also see our according to our Charter values, with clear strategic intent attractiveness as an employer of and in line with a defined operating model.
together with choice being enhanced by the diverse strong leadership, these elements constitute our way geographic and role opportunities of doing things: the BHP Billiton Way.
our operating model is designed to clearly define our respective Employees by Region FY2008 accountabilities.
specifically, it articulates the relationship Australia and Asia 37% between, and responsibilities of, the Group Functions, Minerals South Africa 27% exploration, our Customer sector Groups and Marketing.
South America 22% North America incl.
Canada 7% strong leadership is a cornerstone of success for any organisation.
Rest of world 6% Europe incl.
UK 1% our leadership model is designed to foster superior performance that allows each of our employees to start the day with a sense Contractors by Region FY2008 of purpose and end it with a sense of accomplishment.
Australia and Asia 41% South America 28% We remain committed to helping our people reach their Europe, Africa and full potential, achieve job satisfaction and maximise their Middle East 25% North America 6% contribution.
During the year, we consolidated our approach to talent management and have focused on strengthening our talent pipeline.
BhP BIllItonS BeIjIng 2008 olYMPIC gaMeS keePIng oUR PeoPle SaFe A commitment to our people was at the heart of our Beijing 2008 We continue to make safety our priority.
Despite our efforts, olympic and Paralympic Games sponsorship.
11 of our colleagues lost their lives while working for BHP Billiton not only was the excitement of the Games experienced by the during FY2008.
in the year ahead, we will continue to strive to 13,000 staff that contributed to the production of the Beijing deliver on our obligation to ensure that each of our people goes medals, but almost 50,000 members of BHP Billitons workforce, home safely at the end of each day.
including contractors, spread over 25 countries, celebrated our Good safety starts with good leadership and our safety programs sponsorship by attending one of 150 Company events, each with are directly tied to our leadership model.
learning from experience an olympic theme.
is critical and we encourage the reporting of all actual or potential A number of olympic-based reward and recognition programs incidents.
sites are also required to adhere to our Fatal risk Control were also established to support the delivery of important health, Protocols that establish minimum performance expectations safety and behavioural messages across the Company, including for managing potential fatal risks associated with our our absolute commitment to Zero Harm.
For example, Ximena common activities.
Chacon pictured, from our spence our primary safety performance measure is our total recordable operation in Chile, was one of 10 injury Frequency rate, a measure of incidents resulting in employees selected to run with the lost time per million hours worked.
in FY2008, we improved olympic torch in China as a reward this rate by 20 per cent from 7.4 in FY2007 to 5.9. our target for strong commitment to our is a 50 per cent reduction by 30 June 2012: achieving this Charter values.
target will deliver a rate considered to be a world-class level of performance.
BHP Billiton PlC ConCise AnnuAl rePort 2008 - 21
