2 Directors 7.3 Results, financial instruments The tables contained in section 7.19 of this Directors Report set and going concern out the relevant interests in shares in BHP Billiton Limited and Information about our financial position is included in the financial BHP Billiton Plc of the Directors who held office at 30 June 2008, statements in this Annual Report.
The income statement set out at the beginning and end of FY2008, and in relation to all in this Annual Report shows profit attributable to BHP Billiton Directors in office as at the date of this Directors Report, members of US$15,390 million compared to US$13,416 million their relevant interests in shares in BHP Billiton Limited and in 2007.
BHP Billiton Plc as at the date of this Director Report.
No rights or options over shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc Details of our financial risk management objectives and policies are held by any of the non-executive Directors.
Interests held by are set out in section 5.6 of this Annual Report and note 26 executive Directors under share and option plans are set out in the Financial risk management in the financial statements, tables showing interests in incentive plans contained in section each of which is incorporated into, and forms part of, 6.5 of this Annual Report.
Further details of all options and this Directors Report.
rights held as at the date of this Directors Report including those The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, consider issued during or since the end of FY2008, and of shares issued that the Group has adequate resources to continue in the during or since the end of FY2008 upon exercise of options and operational business for the foreseeable future and have rights, are set out in note 29 Key Management Personnel in the therefore continued to adopt the going-concern basis in financial statements in this Annual Report.
Except as disclosed preparing the financial statements.
in these tables, there have been no other changes in the Directors interests over shares or options in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc between 30 June 2008 and the date of this 7.4 Directors Directors Report.
The Directors who served at any time during or since the end We have not made available to any Director any interest in of the financial year were Mr Don Argus, Mr Marius Kloppers, a registered scheme.
Mr Charles Goodyear, Mr Paul Anderson, Mr Alan Boeckmann, Dr David Brink, Dr John Buchanan, Mr Carlos Cordeiro, The former Directors of BHP Limited participated in a retirement plan under which they were entitled to receive a payment on Mr David Crawford, Hon.
E Gail fide Planque, Dr David Jenkins, Dr David Morgan, Mr Jacques Nasser, Mr Keith Rumble retirement calculated by reference to years of service.
This plan was closed on 24 October 2003, and benefits accrued to that date and Dr John Schubert.
Further details of the Directors of are held by BHP Billiton Limited and will be paid on retirement.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are set out in section 4.1 Further information about this plan and its closure are set out of this Annual Report.
These details include the period for which in section 6.6.
each Director held office up to the date of this Directors Report, their qualifications, experience and particular responsibilities, 7.5.
3 GMC members the directorships held in other listed companies since 1 July 2005, The table contained in section 7.20 of this Directors Report and the period for which each directorship has been held.
sets out the relevant interests held by members of the GMC Mr Charles Goodyear retired as a Director and as CEO of other than Directors in shares of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from BHP Billiton Plc at the beginning and end of FY2008, and at 30 September 2007, having been a Director since November 2001 the date of this Directors Report.
Interests held by members and CEO from January 2003.
Mr Marius Kloppers took over as CEO of the GMC under share and option plans are set out in the tables from Mr Charles Goodyear on 1 October 2007. showing interests in incentive plans contained in section 6.5 of Dr David Brink retired as a Director of BHP Billiton Limited this Annual Report.
Further details of all options and rights held as at the date of this Directors Report including those issued and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 28 November 2007, having been a Director of BHP Billiton Plc since June 1997 and a Director during or since the end of FY2008, and of shares issued during or since the end of FY2008 upon exercise of options and rights, of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001. are set out in note 29 Key Management Personnel in the Dr David Morgan was appointed as a Director of BHP Billiton financial statements in this Annual Report.
Limited and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 1 January 2008.
Mr Alan Boeckmann and Mr Keith Rumble were each appointed 7.6 Secretaries as a Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 1 September 2008.
Ms Jane McAloon is the Group Company Secretary.
Details of The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees held her qualifications and experience are set out in section 4.1 of this during the year and each Directors attendance at those meetings Annual Report.
The following people also act as the Company are set out in sections 5.3.
Secretaries of either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc: Ms Fiona Smith, BSc LLB, FCIS, Deputy Company Secretary BHP Billiton Limited and Ms Elizabeth Hobley, BA Hons, ACIS, 7.5 Remuneration and share interests Deputy Company Secretary BHP Billiton Plc.
1 Remuneration has experience in a company secretariat role arising from time spent in such roles within BHP Billiton or other large The policy for determining the nature and amount of emoluments listed companies.
of members of the Group Management Committee GMC including the executive Directors and the non-executive Directors and information about the relationship between that 7.7 Indemnities and insurance policy and our performance are set out in sections 6.3, 6.5 and Rule 146 of the BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and Article 146 6.6 of this Annual Report.
of the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association require each The remuneration tables contained in sections 6.5 and 6.6 of this Company to indemnify to the extent permitted by law, each Annual Report set out the remuneration of members of the GMC Director, Secretary or executive officer of BHP Billiton Limited including the executive Directors and the non-executive Directors.
and BHP Billiton Plc respectively against liability incurred in, or arising out of, the conduct of the business of the Company or the discharge of the duties of the Director, Secretary or executive officer.
The Directors named in section 4.1 of this Annual Report, the executive officers and the Company Secretaries of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have the benefit of this requirement, as do individuals who formerly held one of those positions.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 155 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
