2.12.2 DLC structure continued 2.13 Material contracts Joint Electorate Actions DLC agreements Under the terms of the DLC agreements, the BHP Billiton Limited On 29 June 2001, BHP Billiton Limited then known as BHP Limited Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association and BHP Billiton Plc then known as Billiton Plc merged by way special voting arrangements have been implemented so that of a DLC structure.
To effect the DLC, BHP Limited and Billiton Plc the shareholders of both Companies vote together as a single as they were then known entered into the following agreements decision-making body on matters affecting the shareholders designed to place the shareholders of both companies in a of each Company in similar ways such matters are referred to position where they effectively have an interest in a single as Joint Electorate Actions.
For so long as the Equalisation Ratio group that combines the assets, and is subject to all the remains 1:1, each BHP Billiton Limited share will effectively have liabilities, of both companies: the same voting rights as each BHP Billiton Plc share on Joint BHP Billiton Sharing Agreement Electorate Actions.
BHP Billiton Special Voting Shares Deed A Joint Electorate Action requires approval by ordinary BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee resolution or special resolution if required by statute, regulation, BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee.
applicable listing rules or other applicable requirements of BHP Billiton Limited, with both the BHP Billiton Limited ordinary The effect of each of these agreements and the manner in which they operate are described in section 2.12 of this Report.
It is shareholders and the holder of the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share voting as a single class and also of BHP Billiton Plc, expected that these agreements will remain in effect until such time as a change in control of the BHP Billiton Group may occur.
with the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shareholders and the holder of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share voting as a single class.
Credit facility Class Rights Actions On 5 February 2008, we entered into a multicurrency term In the case of certain actions in relation to which the two bodies of and revolving facility and subscription agreement with Barclays Capital, BNP Paribas, Citibank Global Markets Limited, shareholders may have divergent interests referred to as Class Rights Actions, the Company wishing to carry out the Class Rights Goldman Sachs, HSBC Bank plc, Banco Santander, S. A. London Branch, and UBS Limited to, among other things, Action requires the prior approval of the shareholders in the other Company voting separately and, where appropriate, the approval meet potential funding requirements in relation to our offer to acquire Rio Tinto.
The facility agreement provides for four debt of its own shareholders voting separately.
Depending on the type of Class Rights Action undertaken, the approval required is either facilities in an aggregate amount of US$55 billion as follows: an ordinary or special resolution of the relevant Company.
a US$20 billion term loan facility with a term of 364 days, which may be extended at our election for a further These voting arrangements are secured through the constitutional 12 months and thereafter up to US$10 billion may be extended documents of the two Companies, the BHP Billiton Sharing for a further six months at our election subject to payment Agreement, the Special Voting Shares Deed and rights attaching of an extension fee: to a specially created Special Voting Share issued by each Company a US$15 billion term loan facility with a term of three years: and held in each case by a Special Voting Company.
The shares in the Special Voting Companies are held legally and beneficially a U S$12.5 billion term loan facility with a term of five years: by Law Debenture Trust Corporation Plc.
and a US$7.5 billion revolving facility with a term of five years Cross guarantees incorporating Euro and US dollar swingline facilities.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have each executed a The proceeds of loans drawn under the facilities may be Deed Poll Guarantee, pursuant to which creditors entitled to the used for the following purposes: benefit of the BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee and the refinancing Rio Tintos existing US$40 billion facility BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee will, to the extent possible, or any refinancing of such facility: be placed in the same position as if the relevant debts were financing any return of cash to our shareholders by way owed by both BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc combined.
of a share buyback or otherwise: Restrictions on takeovers of one Company only financing any cash consideration that may be offered to Rio Tinto shareholders pursuant to the acquisition: The BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association have been drafted to ensure that, except the payment of costs in connection with the acquisition: and with the consent of the Board, a person cannot gain control of in the case of the revolving facility, for the general corporate one Company without having made an equivalent offer to the purposes of the BHP Billiton Group.
shareholders of both Companies on equivalent terms.
Sanctions Loans drawn under the facilities bear interest at a margin for breach of these provisions would include withholding of over LIBOR.
dividends, voting restrictions and the compulsory divestment of shares to the extent a shareholder and its associates exceed The facility agreement contains customary representations the relevant threshold.
and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants including, among others, compliance with a leverage ratio, negative pledge and certain restrictions on disposals and subsidiary indebtedness, indemnities and events of default, each with appropriate carve-outs and materiality thresholds.
The facility agreement contains a requirement to prepay the US$20 billion term loan facility from proceeds of certain disposals and borrowings, subject to certain exceptions and thresholds.
