2 INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY continued 2.2.
8 Manganese Customer Sector Group Hotazel The Samancor Manganese joint venture owns the Mamatwan Our Manganese CSG operations produce a combination of ores, open-cut mine and the Wessels underground mine.
These alloys and metal from sites in South Africa and Australia.
We are assets produced a record three million tonnes of ore during the worlds largest producer of seaborne manganese ore and in FY2008 and we have opportunities for further expansion.
the top three global producers of manganese alloy.
At current production rates, Mamatwan and Wessels have Manganese alloy is a key input into the steelmaking process, reserve lives of 14 and 20 years.
and demand for manganese has reflected the growth in global Gemco steel production.
Our high-grade ore is particularly valuable As a result of its location near our own port facilities and to alloy producers because of the value in use differential its simple, open-cut mining operation, GEMCO is one of the over low-grade ore, which is the degree to which high-grade lowest-cost manganese ore producers in the world.
This, and ore is proportionately more efficient in the alloy process its high grade of ore and relative proximity to Asian export than the difference in grade.
markets make it unique among the worlds manganese mines.
Although our corporate strategy is to focus on upstream GEMCO produced over 3.5 million tonnes of ore in FY2008.
resources businesses, our low-cost alloy smelters have been At current production rates, it has a reserve life of 17 years.
significant contributors to our profit in recent years.
In addition, GEMCO currently has an expansion project underway and they add value to the overall manganese business because they is studying another see Development projects below.
enable us to access markets with an optimal mix of ore and alloy, We have alloy plants in Gauteng, South Africa Metalloys Advalloy optimise production to best suit market conditions and give us and Tasmania, Australia TEMCO.
insights into the performance of our ores in smelters that assist our ore marketing efforts.
Metalloys Advalloy In recent years, we have sold approximately 80 per cent of Samancor Manganeses Metalloys alloy plant, which includes our ore production and used the remainder as feedstock in our the former Advalloy joint venture operation, is one of the largest alloy smelters.
More then 90 per cent of our ore sales are priced manganese alloy producers in the world.
Due to its size and quarterly or, occasionally, on a spot basis while the rest are access to high-quality feedstock from our Hotazel operations, priced annually.
it is also one of the lowest-cost alloy producers.
Metalloys produces high and medium-carbon ferromanganese We own all of our manganese mining assets and alloy plants and silicomanganese.
through 60-40 joint ventures with Anglo-American known as TEMCO Samancor Manganese.
We are the operator of the assets in this joint venture.
The Samancor Manganese joint venture also owns TEMCO produces high-carbon ferromanganese, silicomanganese 51 per cent of the Manganese Metal Company, which operates and sinter from ore shipped from GEMCO, primarily using a manganese metal plant in South Africa.
Our manganese metal hydro-electric power.
and alloy sales are principally to steelmakers, generally under During FY2008, our South African mines and plants were affected long-term contracts that typically provide for quarterly price by a mandatory 10 per cent reduction in electricity consumption adjustments, either by negotiation or by reference to published as a result of generation constraints at the national power utility, market prices.
We have supplemented our power supply with additional We have two mines at Hotazel in the Northern Cape province diesel generation capacity and adjusted our product mix towards of South Africa and the GEMCO mine on Groote Eylandt in the more energy efficient products.
We expect to maintain overall Gulf of Carpentaria off northern Australia.
production levels, although our costs will increase marginally.
Information on Manganese mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
These tables should be read in conjunction with the production and reserve tables below.
Name, location, Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source Hotazel Manganese Hotazel Manganese Mines, Mamatwan was commissioned in 1964.
Mamatwans capacity is currently 2.8 mtpa Mines a division of Samancor of ore and sinter based on the current Wessels was commissioned in 1973.
Manganese, is the operator product mix at the mine.
The beneficiation Kalahari Basin, of Mamatwan and Wessels.
plant consists of primary, secondary and South Africa tertiary crushing with associated screening To comply with the South Mamatwan is an plants.
There is a dense medium separator African Mining Charter and open-cut mine.
and a sinter plant with a capacity of scorecard, Samancor Wessels is an 0.9 mtpa of sinter.
obtain 15% Black Economic Wessels has two loaders and four haulers The mines are Empowerment BEE ownership with an annual capacity of approximately accessible by rail and of its Hotazel Manganese 0.9 mtpa of ore.
The processing is a simple public road.
Hotazel crushing and screening circuit consisting and sinter products has reached agreement to pool of primary and secondary crushing circuits are transported by its mineral rights in a new with associated screening capacity.
government-owned vehicle that will have a 9% BEE The power source is the national utility rail.
The transaction is company Eskom.
We have supplemented one third of the pending government approval.
our power supply with additional back-up ore produced is Negotiations are underway with diesel generation capacity.
beneficiated locally possible BEE partners for the with the balance balance of the 15% target.
exported via Port Elizabeth and Durban.
40 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
indb 40 9 9 12 08 9:54:34 AM 12 08 9:54:34 AM Information on Manganese mining operations continued Name, location, Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source Groote Eylandt We own 60% of GEMCO, which The mine was first commissioned The beneficiation process consists of Mining Company owns and operates the mine.
in 1965. crushing, screening and dense media Pty Ltd GEMCO The remaining 40% is owned separation with lump and fines products by Anglo American.
The existing capacity Groote Eylandt, is 3.4 mtpa.
Northern Territory, All leases situated on Aboriginal Australia land held under the Aboriginal GEMCO owns and operates its own Land Rights Northern Territory on-site diesel power generation facility.
Leases have been Ore is transported renewed for a period of 25 years from the concentrator from 2006. by road train directly to our shipping facilities at the port at Milner Bay.
Information on Manganese smelters, refineries and processing plants Ownership, operation Operation and location and title Plant type product Capacity and power source Advalloy Pty Ltd Samancor Manganese owns Manganese alloy plant uses an oxygen Advalloy has a capacity of 82,000 tonnes 100% of Advalloy.
Samancor blast converter process producing per annum of medium-carbon Meyerton, Manganese holds freehold refined manganese alloy from ferromanganese in various fractions.
South Africa title over the property, molten metal from the adjacent The power source is from Eskom.
Manganese Metal Samancor Manganese owns A manganese production plant at Manganese Metal Company has a capacity Company Pty Ltd 51% of Manganese Metal Nelspruit processing and electrowinning to produce 27,000 tonnes per annum Company.
Delta Plc indirectly of manganese ore into electrolytic of electrolytic manganese metal.
manganese metal via a selenium-free South Africa The power source is from Eskom.
hydrometallurgical electroplating Manganese Metal Company extraction process.
holds freehold title over the property, plant and equipment.
Metalloys Metalloys is a division of Manganese alloy plant uses eight 370,000 tonnes of high-carbon Samancor Manganese.
electric arc furnaces to produce ferromanganese including hot metal Meyerton, manganese alloys such as high-carbon and 120,000 tonnes of silicomanganese South Africa Samancor Manganese holds ferromanganese and silicomanganese.
in various fractions per annum.
freehold title over the property, plant and equipment.
The power source is the national utility company Eskom plus 30 mw of internal power generation from waste gases.
Tasmanian Electro We own 60% of TEMCO.
Anglo Four electric arc furnaces and a sinter Nominal capacity based on the Metallurgical American owns the remaining plant produce ferroalloys, including 2007 product mix is 128,000 tonnes Company Pty Ltd 40%.
Samancor Manganese high-carbon ferromanganese, of high-carbon ferromanganese, TEMCO manages the operations.
126,000 tonnes of silicomanganese and 336,000 tonnes of sinter per annum.
Bell Bay, TEMCO holds freehold title Tasmania, Australia over the property, plant TEMCO sources its electrical power from and equipment.
Aurora Energy, the state-owned power distribution and retailing company.
Power in Tasmania is principally generated from hydro stations, but supplemented with a 240 mw gas generation station.
TEMCO also self-generates 11 mw for internal use from an on-site energy recovery unit.
Hotazel Manganese Mines Development projects GEMCO expansion Two expansion projects in South Africa are expected to add 1.0 mtpa of capacity 100 per cent, or about 0.6 mtpa We are currently expanding the capacity of GEMCOs processing BHP Billiton share for less than US$50 million capital plant by an estimated 1.0 mtpa at a cost of US$110 million expenditure BHP Billiton share.
We are undertaking a pre-feasibility study into further expansion options.
The commissioning phase is due to start on 30 April 2009 and the ramp-up is estimated to take two months from this date.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 41 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
