section 2 BHP Billiton operates nine Customer Sector Groups CSGs, aligned with the commodities we extract and market.
The nine CSGs are Petroleum, Aluminium, Base Metals, Diamonds and Specialty Products, Stainless Steel Materials, Iron Ore, Manganese, Metallurgical Coal and Energy Coal.
CsG Performance Record annual production at 14 of our assets, including Western Australia Iron Ore, GEMCO, TEMCO, Illawarra Coal, Hunter Valley Energy Coal, Minerva and Worsley all Australia, Escondida Chile, Samarco and Alumar both Brazil, Samancor South Africa, Cerrejn Coal Colombia, Zamzama Pakistan and Paranam Suriname.
Record production in seven commodities, including petroleum, copper, iron ore, manganese ore and alloy, alumina and molybdenum.
Annual production also increased in crude oil and condensate, uranium, lead, zinc, silver and diamonds.
We continue to develop and deliver world-class projects that add significant shareholder value.
First product was delivered from 10 major projects across five commodities during the year.
A further seven major projects spanning four commodities were approved by the Board for development during the period.
stybarrow, Australia 10 - BHP Billiton PlC ConCise AnnuAl rePort 2008 Four new Petroleum projects were brought online in FY2008: Genghis Khan, Atlantis, stybarrow and Zamzama Phase ii.
We also have a deep portfolio of projects for future growth.
J Michael Yeager Petroleum Underlying EBIT increased 82.1% us$ million revenue 9,547 underlying eBit 5,489 Capital expenditure 2,116 net operating assets 8,936 Four new projects were brought online in FY2008: Genghis Khan, Atlantis, stybarrow and Zamzama Phase ii.
Weve also built a deep portfolio of growth projects that will carry us forward.
Petroleum achieved 117 per cent reserve replacement during Atlantis, Gulf of Mexico FY2008.
We made our largest exploration discovery in the production of 129.5 million the last five years with the barrels of oil equivalent boe, discovery of the thebe field a 13 per cent year-on-year offshore of Western Australia.
volume growth, puts us well We significantly increased our on our way to achieving an acreage position, especially in expected annual compound the Gulf of Mexico where we growth rate of 10 per cent were successful in two lease over the next four to five years.
sales, and we are now actively of equal significance is the fact exploring in nine countries.
that we are growing volumes in a high-demand environment FY2008 saw the best safety and in some of the safest and performance ever achieved most fiscally stable countries in Petroleum, with only three in the world.
lost time incidents ltis and zero fatalities for the year.
our disciplined approach the improved lti rate, compared enabled us to achieve to six ltis for FY2007 and 20 ltis 93.8 per cent production in FY2006, was achieved during uptime versus maximum a period of greater drilling daily possible production.
and project construction Petroleum unit operating costs activity levels.
were held at us$4.92 per boe, which when adjusted for foreign exchange is lower than FY2007.
BHP Billiton PlC ConCise AnnuAl rePort 2008 - 11 Annual production and sales records for record underlying eBit of us$7,989 million alumina were achieved for the second was achieved, as new and increasing consecutive year.
All alumina operations production was delivered during a period achieved record annual output.
Jon Dudas Diego Hernandez aluminium Base Metals Underlying EBIT decreased Underlying EBIT increased 21.1 % 16.2% us$ million us$ million revenue 5,746 revenue 14,774 underlying eBit 1,465 underlying eBit 7,989 Capital expenditure 556 Capital expenditure 989 net operating assets 6,364 net operating assets 11,159 Aluminium ingots Mozal, Mozambique Copper cathode sheets escondida, Chile this was in part offset by Growth opportunities Record alumina production Record copper production record annual aluminium within the CsG are reflected production from Alumar.
through a robust project pipeline, for example, the Cannington 4.6 mt 1,375 kt the efficiency and Growth life extension Project and expansion project at olympic Dam expansion.
Annual production and sales We achieved our third Worsley Alumina in Western records for alumina were consecutive year of record Australia was approved for an exciting results from achieved for the second copper production, as spence estimated capital investment exploration of the escondida consecutive year.
All alumina and escondida sulphide leach of us$1.9 billion BHP Billiton mining lease are being operations achieved record continued to ramp up and Pinto share 86 per cent.
the obtained in areas close annual output.
expansion project will lift to existing infrastructure operated consistently capacity of the Worsley and processing facilities, record underlying eBit above the expanded refinery from 3.5 million tonnes including the new Pampa of us$7,989 million was nameplate capacity.
per annum mtpa of alumina escondida discovery.
achieved, as new and increased to 4.6 mtpa 100 per cent production was delivered southern African smelter capacity through expanded during a period of high prices.
aluminium production mining operations, additional operated at reduced levels refinery capacity and upgraded to comply with the regions port facilities.
mandatory reduction in power consumption.
12 - BHP Billiton PlC ConCise AnnuAl rePort 2008 operating performance at our eKAti in the current financial year, we Diamond Mine in Canada was strong, commissioned three major projects: while the acquisition of Anglo Potash ravensthorpe, the Yabulu expansion limited enhances our diversification.
Graham Kerr Jimmy Wilson diamonds and Stainless Steel Specialty Products Materials Underlying EBIT decreased Underlying EBIT decreased 4.1 % 65.3 % us$ million us$ million revenue 969 revenue 5,088 underlying eBit 189 underlying eBit 1,275 Capital expenditure 123 Capital expenditure 1,191 net operating assets 1,694 net operating assets 7,275 Higher operating costs had an adverse impact on underlying eBit and were largely due to a strengthening Australian dollar and higher charges for fuel, energy and labour reflecting industry-wide cost pressures.
sales volumes decreased Gem quality rough diamonds eKAti Diamond Mine, Canada Cerro Matoso, Colombia for the year reflecting lower production volumes due to an industrial stoppage at more than the acquisition of Anglo Potash Cerro Matoso, wet weather limited was completed on major projects interruptions at Yabulu, 10 July 2008. this has given 3 commissioned scheduled maintenance us full ownership of more than 7,000 across all operations and in the current financial year, 7,000 square kilometres of a furnace rebuild at the we commissioned three major highly prospective exploration 2 Kalgoorlie nickel smelter, projects: ravensthorpe, the permits in the immediate km offset by strong production Yabulu expansion and Cliffs.
vicinity of existing major from the Kwinana nickel of potash saskatchewan potash mines.
underlying eBit was down Potash will further enhance exploration permits 65.3 per cent mainly due to our diversification.
operating performance at lower average london Metal our eKAti Diamond Mine in We increased our exploration exchange prices and volume Canada was strong.
the Koala and development activities in across all operations.
underground project was diamonds Angola, potash completed ahead of schedule Canada and titanium and under budget and is now minerals Mozambique.
BHP Billiton PlC ConCise AnnuAl rePort 2008 - 13 record production and increasing global Higher sales, record ore and alloy demand contributed to iron ore increasing production and higher prices for the year its underlying eBit to us$4,631 million, have driven Manganese underlying eBit up up 69.8 per cent.
549.8 per cent to a record us$1,644 million.
ian Ashby Peter Beaven Iron ore Manganese Underlying EBIT increased Underlying EBIT increased 69.8% 549.8% us$ million us$ million revenue 9,455 revenue 2,912 underlying eBit 4,631 underlying eBit 1,644 Capital expenditure 1,832 Capital expenditure 155 net operating assets 6,794 net operating assets 1,154 iron ore newman, Western Australia Manganese ore GeMCo, Australia iron ore, Australia rapid Growth Project 3 the Groote eylandt expansion, rGP3 was completed and which will deliver an additional has delivered an additional one mtpa of concentrate 8th 2.0 20 mtpa of capacity, bringing 100 per cent, or about consecutive production the total installed capacity in 0.6 mtpa BHP Billiton share, record for Western Australia the Western Australia iron ore was approved during the period.
mtpa Iron Ore business to 129 mtpa.
two expansion projects of added capacity from record production and the third pellet plant at in south Africa will add increasing global demand future expansion projects samarco in Brazil was one mtpa of capacity contributed to iron ore successfully completed, 100 per cent, or about Higher sales, record ore and increasing its underlying increasing capacity by 0.6 mtpa BHP Billiton share alloy production and higher eBit to us$4,631 million, an additional 7.6 mtpa.
for less than us$50 million prices for the year have driven up 69.8 per cent.
capital expenditure Manganese underlying eBit During FY2008, we awarded BHP Billiton share.
up 549.8 per cent to a record A consecutive eighth a five-year, A$300 million us$1,644 million.
production record was mining contract to ngarda achieved at our Western Civil and Mining as part Production records were Australia iron ore operation.
of our ongoing commitment achieved despite the impact of Production was 103.8 million to support indigenous the south African power crisis.
wet tonnes, an increase of communities in the Pilbara.
13.3 per cent on the previous financial year.
14 - BHP Billiton PlC ConCise AnnuAl rePort 2008 illawarra Coal opened the A$30 million record annual production was achieved for West Cliff Ventilation Air Methane Project the third consecutive year at Cerrejn Coal WestVAMP, a world first greenhouse and the second consecutive year at Hunter gas reduction initiative that generates Valley energy Coal.
We also achieved record commercial power from mine ventilation air.
quarterly production at new Mexico Coal.
Dave Murray Dave Murray is also President of energy Coal Metallurgical Coal energy Coal Underlying EBIT decreased Underlying EBIT increased 24.9 % 119.8% us$ million us$ million revenue 3,941 revenue 6,560 underlying eBit 937 underlying eBit 1,057 Capital expenditure 500 Capital expenditure 438 net operating assets 2,647 net operating assets 1,999 Annual production at BMA underlying eBit was a record operations was impacted for the CsG, driven by higher by two extraordinary flood export prices in both the events.
Force majeure was Atlantic and Pacific markets.
declared on 24 January 2008 and lifted on 5 June 2008. the Klipspruit Project was operations are recovering approved, which involves the strongly from the flood events.
expansion of the mine capacity from 4.8 mtpa to eight mtpa our growth pipeline continues and the construction of a Hay Point Coal terminal, Hunter Valley energy Coal, Australia to progress with stage one 16 mtpa coal processing plant BMA, Australia development of Maruwai in a 50:50 joint venture with approved into execution Anglo Coal.
Increased capacity Record Underlying EBIT for phase, Daunia approved into at Hay Point to We invested in the newcastle feasibility stage and BMA Coal infrastructure Group Pty entering an agreement to FY2008 ltd nCiG BHP Billiton share acquire 100 per cent of the 35.5 per cent, which involves 44 new saraji Project from new record annual production the construction of a 30 mtpa Hope Corporation limited.
was achieved for the export coal loading facility third consecutive year the BMA owned Hay Point with a future option to expand mtpa at Cerrejn Coal and the terminal has increased to 66 mtpa.
second consecutive year capacity to 44 mtpa, the Free on Board prices for at Hunter Valley energy Coal.
following a significant the Douglas-Middelburg Peak Downs and other similar expansion program.
optimisation Project was BMA metallurgical coking Production at new Mexico approved to maintain export coal products increased Coal for the June 2008 illawarra Coal opened the thermal coal production by more than 200 per cent quarter reached an all time A$30 million West Cliff at 10 mtpa and domestic compared to 2007 levels.
high following the longwall Ventilation Air Methane production at 8.5 mtpa.
Project WestVAMP, a world first greenhouse gas reduction initiative that generates commercial power from mine ventilation air.
BHP Billiton PlC ConCise AnnuAl rePort 2008 - 15
