1 KEY INFORMATION continued For example, our future revenues from our operations, projects 1.5 Risk factors continued or mines described in this Annual Report will be based, in part, Breaches in our information technology IT security processes upon the market price of the minerals, metals or petroleum may adversely impact the conduct of our business activities produced, which may vary significantly from current levels.
These variations, if materially adverse, may affect the timing We maintain global IT and communication networks and applications to support our business activities.
IT security or the feasibility of the development of a particular project or the expansion of certain facilities or mines.
processes protecting these systems are in place and subject to assessment as part of the review of internal control over Other factors that may affect the actual construction or financial reporting.
These processes may not prevent future production commencement dates, costs or production output malicious action or fraud by individuals or groups, resulting and anticipated lives of operations, mines or facilities include in the corruption of operating systems, theft of commercially our ability to profitably produce and transport the minerals, sensitive data, misappropriation of funds and disruptions petroleum and or metals extracted to applicable markets: to our business operations.
the impact of foreign currency exchange rates on the market prices of the minerals, petroleum or metals we produce: A breach in our governance processes may lead to regulatory activities of government authorities in some of the countries penalties and loss of reputation where we are exploring or developing these projects, facilities We operate in a global environment straddling multiple or mines, including increases in taxes, changes in environmental jurisdictions and complex regulatory frameworks.
Our governance and other regulations and political uncertainty: and other factors and compliance processes, which include the review of control identified in the description of the risk factors above.
over financial reporting, may not prevent future potential breaches We cannot assure you that our estimated economically of law, accounting or governance practice.
Our business conduct recoverable reserve figures, closure or divestment of such and anti-trust protocols may not prevent instances of fraudulent operations or facilities, including associated costs, actual behaviour and dishonesty nor guarantee compliance with legal production or commencement dates, cost or production or regulatory requirements.
This may lead to regulatory fines, output or anticipated lives of the projects, mines and facilities litigation, loss of operating licences or loss of reputation.
discussed in this Annual Report, will not differ materially from the statements contained in this Annual Report.
1.6 Forward looking statements Except as required by applicable regulations or by law, the Group This Annual Report contains forward looking statements, does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or review including statements regarding: any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information or future events.
our proposal to acquire Rio Tinto and associated capital management initiatives estimated reserves trends in commodity prices demand for commodities plans, strategies and objectives of management closure or divestment of certain operations or facilities including associated costs anticipated production or construction commencement dates expected costs or production output anticipated productive lives of projects, mines and facilities provisions and contingent liabilities.
Forward looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as intend, aim, project, anticipate, estimate, plan, believe, expect, may, should, will, continue or similar words.
These statements discuss future expectations concerning the results of operations or financial condition, or provide other forward looking statements.
These forward looking statements are not guarantees or predictions of future performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, and which may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements contained in this Annual Report.
Readers are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward looking statements.
12 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
