section 1 Group Highlights 2008 record attributable profit delivered for the seventh consecutive year.
underlying earnings Before interest, taxation, Depreciation and Amortisation eBitDA up 22.1 per cent to us$28.0 billion and underlying earnings Before interest and taxation eBit up 21.0 per cent to us$24.3 billion.
Attributable profit up 12.4 per cent to us$15.4 billion and earnings Per share ePs up 17.5 per cent, benefiting from buy-backs both measures excluding exceptionals.
record underlying eBit in the Petroleum, Base Metals, iron ore, Manganese and energy Coal Customer sector Groups.
strong underlying eBit margin of 47.5 per cent, despite unexpected disruptions and accelerated cost inflation.
return on Capital employed of 37.5 per cent, despite unprecedented level of capital investments.
record net operating cash flow of us$18.2 billion, up 13.8 per cent.
Annual production records for petroleum, copper, iron ore, manganese ore and alloy, alumina and molybdenum.
Commissioning of six major growth projects and other volume growth in our high-margin oil and gas, iron ore and manganese businesses expected in FY2009.
Production commenced at 10 major projects during FY2008.
Final dividend rebased to 41 us cents per share, a strong signal of our confidence in the outlook.
We delivered a significant 150 per cent increase in annual dividend over the past three years.
2004 is prepared in accordance with uKGAAP and has not been restated.
b on 1 July 2007, the Group adopted the policy of recognising its proportionate interest in the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of jointly controlled entities within each applicable line item of the financial statements.
All such interests were previously recognised using the equity method.
Comparative figures for the years 2007 to 2005 have been restated.
c underlying eBit is earnings before net finance costs and taxation and any exceptional items.
underlying eBitDA is underlying eBit before depreciation, impairments and amortisation.
We believe that underlying eBit and underlying eBitDA provide useful information, but should not be considered as an indication of, or alternative to, attributable profit as an indicator of operating performance or as an alternative to cash flow as a measure of liquidity.
d net operating cash flow is after net interest and taxation.
e three dividends were declared for the year ended 30 June 2004 compared to two dividends declared in 2008 to 2005. f underlying gearing is net debt over net debt plus net assets.
the measure is inclusive of continuing operations of Group companies and jointly controlled entities.
2 - BHP Billiton PlC ConCise AnnuAl rePort 2008
