2 INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY continued Environment 2.9 Sustainable Development Health, Safety, Mining, by its nature impacts the environment.
Our operations Environment and Community are subject to various national and regional laws and regulations One of our strategic drivers Licence to operate, recognises governing environmental protection, rehabilitation and closure.
the intrinsic link between sound sustainability performance In line with our aspirational Zero Harm goal we run programs to and long-term business viability.
We aspire to Zero Harm for our improve our performance, set specific targets, such as for water people, our host communities and the environment and strive consumption, land rehabilitation, energy use and air emissions, to achieve leading industry practice.
Sound principles to govern and track our progress against our targets.
We believe that the safety, business conduct, social, environmental and economic risks of climate change associated with increasing greenhouse activities are integral to the way we do business.
As a global gas concentrations in the atmosphere need to be addressed company, operating in many different countries, we are subject through accelerated action.
Behavioural change, innovation to extensive regulation surrounding health and safety of our and technological progress are necessary to achieve stabilisation people and the environment.
We make every effort to comply in a manner consistent with meeting natural resource and with the regulations and, where less stringent than our energy needs.
We are working within our businesses and with standards, exceed applicable legal and other requirements.
governments, industry and other stakeholders to address this We have a number of systems and supporting documents global challenge and find lasting solutions that are consistent to implement our commitment to sustainable development.
with our goal of Zero Harm.
The Sustainability Committee of the Board continues to There were no reported significant environmental incidents oversee the Groups sustainability strategy, policy, initiatives in FY2008 as defined in the BHP Billiton HSEC consequence and activities.
Management holds responsibility for our severity matrix.
Health, Safety, Environment and Community performance and for driving our commitment to Zero Harm.
Community Our Charter highlights that we care as much about how results Our social licence to operate depends on our ability to operate are obtained as we do about delivering good results.
Our Health, all aspects of our business responsibly, including our ability Safety, Environment and Community Management Standards to work effectively with our host communities.
Regular, open provide the basis for developing and applying management and honest dialogue is the key to building strong relationships.
systems at all levels of our Company and are a driver of our Our community relations professionals are charged with contribution to sustainable development.
developing and nurturing relationships with people impacted by, and interested in, our operations so we can understand The Standards highlight four key components of their concerns, hopes and aspirations.
sustainable development: Health promoting and improving the health of our people While our businesses tailor their community relations programs and host communities.
to suit the local context, our Health, Safety, Environment and Safety providing a workplace where people can work Community Management Standards provide direction as to the without being injured.
critical activities that must be implemented by all our operations.
For example, our sites are required to have community relations Environment promoting efficient resource use, reducing and plans in place and to regularly review the effectiveness of preventing pollution and enhancing biodiversity protection.
communication, consultation and participation processes Community engaging with employees and contractors in collaboration with stakeholders.
and with those affected by our operations, including host communities: and understanding, promoting and upholding The Australian Energy Efficiency Opportunities EEO Program fundamental human rights within our sphere of influence.
The Australian government passed the EEO Act in 2006 to Health improve the identification and evaluation of energy efficiency opportunities by large energy using businesses and to encourage The health of our people is central to our business success.
implementation of cost-effective energy efficiency opportunities.
Our major challenge centres on reducing or eliminating occupational health exposures to airborne contaminants During the past year, our Australian assets covered under the and noise.
Such exposures currently necessitate the strict EEO program rigorously reviewed their energy consumption use of personal protective equipment to avoid adverse health data and fully evaluated their opportunities for energy savings effects.
Malaria and HIV AIDs remain a significant health issue projects.
More than 400 opportunities have been identified, for many of our operations, including those in South Africa, with some 30 per cent either identified for implementation or southern Mozambique and Pakistan, and areas where we have being implemented.
The remainder of opportunities are under development activities such as Guinea and Angola.
The nature of opportunities for energy savings to work to find the most effective ways to help address them, range from purchasing and installing new, more efficient including offering voluntary HIV AIDS testing and counselling equipment to improving maintenance and engineering processes.
and continuing to support a mosquito spraying program in Opportunities for working with local communities to raise southern Africa.
awareness on how residents and businesses can use less energy Safety have also been considered.
The results of this program will be available publicly on the BHP Billiton website in December 2008.
We experienced 11 fatalities in seven separate incidents during It is expected that applying what we have learned from the the year to 30 June 2008.
We remain determined to do all in our Australian EEO sites will contribute to our strategy for meeting power to eliminate fatalities from our operations.
Our Fatal Risk our energy intensity target on a global basis.
Control Protocols continue to direct attention to identified risk areas and risk mitigation activities.
While low injury frequency rates do not mean low fatality rates, we are pleased to report that, during FY2008, we improved our injury performance rate.
Our Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate per one million hours worked decreased by 20 per cent, from 7.4 for FY2008 to 5.9.
Our injury severity rate also reduced by some 20 per cent in FY2008 when compared to FY2007.
56 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
