11 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION continued No income or other tax is payable on any profit on disposal 11.5 Taxation of ordinary shares or ADSs held by a US holder who or which The taxation discussion below describes the material Australian is a non-resident of Australia except if the profit is of an income tax, UK tax and US federal income tax consequences to income nature and sourced in Australia, or the sale is subject a US holder as hereinafter defined of owning BHP Billiton Limited to Australian capital gains tax.
Under the Australian Treaty, ordinary shares or ADSs or BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares or if the profit is sourced in Australia, it will not be taxable in ADSs.
The discussion is based on the Australian, UK and US Australia if it represents business profits of an enterprise carried tax laws currently in effect, as well as on the double taxation on by a US holder entitled to treaty benefits and the enterprise convention between Australia and the US the Australian Treaty, does not carry on business in Australia through a permanent the double taxation convention between the UK and the US the establishment situated in Australia.
Australian capital gains tax UK Treaty and the estate tax conventions between the UK and will not generally apply to a disposal of the ordinary shares the US the UK-US Inheritance and Gift Tax Treaty.
For purposes or ADSs by a US holder who or which is a non-resident of of this discussion, a US holder is a beneficial owner of ordinary Australia unless the shares or ADSs have been acquired shares or ADSs who is, for US federal income tax purposes, after 19 September 1985 and: a citizen or individual resident of the US, a domestic corporation, the ordinary shares or ADSs have been used by the US holder an estate whose income is subject to US federal income tax in carrying on a trade or business through a permanent regardless of its source, or a trust if a US court can exercise establishment in Australia: primary supervision over the trusts administration and one t he US holder together with associates directly or indirectly or more US persons are authorised to control all substantial owns or owned 10 per cent or more of the issued share capital decisions of the trust.
of BHP Billiton Limited at the time of the disposal or throughout We recommend that holders of ordinary shares or ADSs a 12-month period during the two years prior to the time of consult their own tax advisers regarding the Australian, disposal and the underlying value of BHP Billiton Limited at the UK and US federal, state and local tax and other tax time of disposal is principally derived from taxable Australian consequences of owning and disposing of ordinary shares real property: or and ADSs in their particular circumstances.
the US holder is an individual who elected on becoming a non-resident of Australia to continue to have the ordinary Shareholdings in BHP Billiton Limited shares or ADSs subject to Australian capital gains tax.
Australia taxation US taxation In this section references to resident and non-resident This section describes the material US federal income tax refer to residence status for Australian income tax purposes.
consequences to a US holder of owning ordinary shares or ADSs.
Dividends It applies only to ordinary shares or ADSs that are held as capital Dividends paid by BHP Billiton Limited to a US holder who or assets for tax purposes.
This section does not apply to a holder which is a resident of Australia, or to a non-resident of Australia of ordinary shares or ADSs who is a member of a special class of whose holding is effectively connected with a permanent holders subject to special rules, including a dealer in securities, a establishment in Australia, may be subject to income tax.
trader in securities that elects to use a mark-to-market method of accounting for its securities holdings, a tax-exempt organisation, Under the Australian Treaty, dividends paid by BHP Billiton Limited a life insurance company, a person liable for alternative minimum to a US holder who or which is eligible for treaty benefits and tax, a person who actually or constructively owns 10 per cent whose holding is not effectively connected with a permanent or more of the voting stock of BHP Billiton Limited, a person who establishment in Australia or, in the case of a shareholder holds ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging who performs independent personal services from a fixed base or conversion transaction, or a US holder whose functional situated therein, is not connected with that fixed base, may be currency is not the US dollar.
subject to Australian withholding tax at a rate not exceeding 15 per cent of such gross dividend.
This section is based in part upon the representations of the Depositary and the assumption that each obligation in the Dividends paid to non-residents of Australia are exempt from deposit agreement and any related agreement will be performed withholding tax to the extent to which such dividends are in accordance with its terms.
franked under Australias dividend imputation system or are declared by BHP Billiton Limited to be conduit foreign income CFI.
In general, for US federal income tax purposes, a holder of ADSs Dividends are considered to be franked to the extent that they will be treated as the owner of the ordinary shares represented are paid out of post 198687 income on which Australian income by those ADSs.
Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADSs, and ADSs tax has been levied.
CFI is made up of certain amounts that for ordinary shares, will generally not be subject to US federal are earned by BHP Billiton Limited that are not subject to tax income tax.
in Australia, such as dividends remitted to Australia by foreign Dividends subsidiaries.
Any part of a dividend paid to a US holder that is not franked and is not CFI will generally be subject to Under US federal income tax laws, a US holder must include Australian withholding tax unless a specific exemption applies.
in its gross income the gross amount of any dividend paid by BHP Billiton Limited out of its current or accumulated earnings Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
A US holder who or which is a resident of Australia other than The holder must include any Australian tax withheld from certain temporary residents may be liable for income tax on the dividend payment in this gross amount even though the any profit on disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs, or Australian holder does not in fact receive it.
The dividend is taxable to capital gains tax on the disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs the holder when the holder, in the case of ordinary shares, acquired after 19 September 1985. or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, receives the dividend, actually or constructively.
264 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
indb 264 9 9 12 08 9:55:05 AM 12 08 9:55:05 AM 11.5 Taxation continued Shareholdings in BHP Billiton Plc Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder on shares or ADSs UK taxation in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2011 will be taxable Dividends at the rate applicable to long-term capital gains generally at Under UK law, no UK tax is required to be withheld at source a rate of 15 per cent provided that the ADSs remain readily from dividends paid on ordinary shares or ADSs.
tradeable on an established securities market in the US and the US holder holds the shares or ADSs for more than 60 days during Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend US holders will not be liable for UK tax on capital gains realised date and does not enter into certain risk reduction transactions on disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs unless: with respect to the shares or ADSs during the abovementioned they are resident or ordinarily resident in the UK: or holding period.
In addition, a non-corporate US holder that they carry on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through elects to treat the dividend income as investment income a branch or agency for the years in which the disposal occurs pursuant to Section 163 d 4 of the Code will not be eligible and the shares or ADSs have been used, held or acquired for for the reduced rate of taxation.
In the case of a corporate the purposes of such trade or profession or vocation, branch US holder, dividends on shares and ADSs are taxed as ordinary or agency.
In the case of a trade, the term branch includes income and will not be eligible for the dividends received a permanent establishment.
deduction generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
An individual who ceases to be resident in the UK for tax purposes while owning shares or ADSs and then disposes of those shares Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings or ADSs while not UK resident may become subject to UK tax and profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, on capital gains if he she subsequently becomes treated as will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent UK resident again before five complete UK tax years of non-UK of the holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the ordinary residence has elapsed from the date he she left the UK.
In this shares or ADSs and thereafter as a capital gain.
situation US holders will generally be entitled to claim US tax The amount of any cash distribution paid in any foreign paid on such a disposition as a credit against any corresponding currency will be equal to the US dollar value of such currency, UK tax payable.
calculated by reference to the spot rate in effect on the date such distribution is received by the US holder or, in the case of UK inheritance tax ADSs, by the Depositary, regardless of whether and when the Under the current the UK-US Inheritance and Gift Tax Treaty foreign currency is in fact converted into US dollars.
If the foreign between the UK and the US, ordinary shares or ADSs held by currency is converted into US dollars on the date received, the a US holder who is domiciled for the purposes of the UK-US US holder generally should not recognise foreign currency gain or Inheritance and Gift Tax Treaty in the US, and is not for the loss on such conversion.
If the foreign currency is not converted purposes of the UK-US Inheritance and Gift Tax Treaty a national into US dollars on the date received, the US holder will have a of the UK, will generally not be subject to UK inheritance tax basis in the foreign currency equal to its US dollar value on the on the individuals death or on a chargeable gift of the ordinary date received, and will recognise foreign currency gain or loss shares or ADSs during the individuals lifetime, provided that on a subsequent conversion or other disposal of such currency.
any applicable US federal gift or estate tax liability is paid, Such foreign currency gain or loss generally will be treated unless the ordinary shares or ADSs are part of the business as US source ordinary income or loss.
property of a permanent establishment of the individual in the Subject to certain limitations, Australian tax withheld in UK or, in the case of a shareholder who performs independent accordance with the Australian Treaty and paid over to Australia personal services, pertain to a fixed base situated in the UK.
will be creditable against your US federal income tax liability.
Where the ordinary shares or ADSs have been placed in trust Special rules apply in determining the foreign tax credit limitation by a settlor who, at the time of settlement, was a US resident with respect to dividends that are taxed at the capital gains shareholder, the ordinary shares or ADSs will generally not be rate.
To the extent a refund of the tax withheld is available to subject to UK inheritance tax unless the settlor, at the time of a US holder under Australian law or under the Australian Treaty, settlement, was not domiciled in the US and was a UK national.
the amount of tax withheld that is refundable will not be eligible In the exceptional case where the ordinary shares or ADRs for credit against the holders US federal income tax liability.
are subject to both UK inheritance tax and US federal gift or estate tax, the UK-US Inheritance and Gift Tax Treaty Dividends will be income from sources outside the US, and generally provides for double taxation to be relieved by generally will be passive category income or, in the case of means of credit relief.
certain taxpayers, general category income, which in either case is treated separately from each other and other types UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax of income for purposes of computing the foreign tax credit UK stamp duty or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, allowable to a US holder.
be payable on any issue or transfer of shares to the depository Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs or their nominee where those shares are for inclusion in the ADS program at a rate of 1.5 per cent of their price if issued, A US holder who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or the amount of any consideration provided if transferred on sale ADSs will recognise a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax or their value if transferred for no consideration.
No SDRT purposes equal to the difference between the US dollar value of would be payable on the transfer of an ADR.
No UK stamp duty the amount realised and its tax basis, determined in US dollars, in should be payable on the transfer of an ADS provided that the those ordinary shares or ADSs.
The capital gain of a non-corporate instrument of transfer is executed and remains at all times US holder that is recognised before 1 January 2011 is generally outside the UK.
Transfers of ordinary shares to persons other taxed at a rate of 15 per cent where the holder has a holding than the depository or their nominee will give rise to stamp duty period greater than 12 months in the shares or ADSs sold.
or stamp duty reserve tax at the time of transfer.
The relevant The gain or loss will generally be income or loss from sources rate is currently 0.5 per cent of the amount payable for the within the US for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
The purchaser normally pays the stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax.
Special rules apply to transactions involving intermediates and stock lending.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 265 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
