6 REMUNERATION REPORT Dear Shareholder That proposal will be made to shareholders at the 2008 Annual General Meetings and is explained in detail in the Welcome to the Remuneration Report for the 2008 financial Notices convening those meetings.
As in previous years, our aim has been to produce a report that is clear and comprehensible while meeting On behalf of the Committee, I thank you for your interest the highest standards of disclosure.
As foreshadowed in last years Report, the Committee has undertaken a review of our executive incentive arrangements against our remuneration policy.
As in prior years, the Committee had the benefit of independent advice from John Buchanan Kepler Associates.
As a result of that review, the Board will Chairman, Remuneration Committee propose some changes to the operation of the Group Incentive 9 September 2008 Scheme for members of the Group Management Committee.
6.1 The Remuneration Committee 6.2 Reporting requirements The Committee is committed to the principles of accountability The senior management team of the Group during FY2008 and transparency, and to ensuring that remuneration was the Group Management Committee GMC.
The names arrangements demonstrate a clear link between reward and titles of the members of the GMC are set out in section 6.4 and performance.
Operating under delegated authority from of this Report.
the Board, its activities are governed by Terms of Reference Australian Accounting Standards and International Financial adopted by the Board in June 2006, which are available Reporting Standards require BHP Billiton to make certain on our website.
The Committee focuses on: disclosures for Key Management Personnel KMP.
KMP is Remuneration policy and its specific application defined as those persons having authority and responsibility to the CEO and other executives reporting to the CEO for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group Management Committee GMC as well as Group, directly or indirectly.
the general application to all our employees For the purposes of this Report, it has been determined that the The determination of levels of reward to the CEO KMP are the Directors and the members of the GMC who served and other members of the GMC during FY2008.
In addition, the Australian Corporations Act 2001 Providing guidance to the Chairman on evaluating requires BHP Billiton to make certain disclosures in respect of the performance of the CEO the five highest-paid executives below Board level.
In FY2008, the Effective communication with shareholders on the five highest-paid executives below Board level were all members remuneration policy and the Committees work of the GMC and are, therefore, already included as KMP.
The members of the Committee during FY2008 were Dr John 6.3 Remuneration policy and structure Buchanan Chairman, Mr Carlos Cordeiro, Dr David Jenkins and the Hon E Gail fide Planque.
The Committee met five times The Committee recognises that we operate in a global in FY2008, and attendance at those meetings is set out in environment and that our performance depends on the quality section 5 Corporate Governance Statement.
At the invitation of our people.
It keeps the remuneration policy under regular of the Committee, Mr Don Argus the Group Chairman, review to ensure it is appropriate for the needs of the Group.
Mr Marius Kloppers the CEO as of 1 October 2007, 6.3.
1 Key principles of our remuneration policy Mr Charles Goodyear the CEO pre October 2007 and Ms Karen Wood Group Executive and Chief People Officer The key principles of our remuneration policy are to: attended meetings except where matters associated with Provide competitive rewards to attract, motivate and retain their own remuneration were considered.
Mr Derek Steptoe highly-skilled executives willing to work around the world Vice President Group Reward and Recognition and Ms Jane Apply demanding key performance indicators KPIs, McAloon Group Company Secretary also attended meetings including financial and non-financial measures of performance by invitation.
A report from the Committee and details of L ink a large component of pay to our performance and the Board and Committee performance appear in section 5 creation of value for our shareholders Corporate Governance Statement.
Ensure remuneration arrangements are equitable and facilitate The Committee has access to advice and views from those the deployment of human resources around our businesses invited to attend meetings, as mentioned above, and can Limit severance payments on termination to pre-established draw on services from a range of external sources, including contractual arrangements that do not commit us to making remuneration consultants.
A list of all consultants, together unjustified payments.
with the type of services supplied and whether services are The Committee is confident that these principles, which provided elsewhere in the Group, is available on our website.
were applied in the year under review and are expected Kepler Associates LLP, independent advisers to the Committee, to be applied in FY2009 and beyond, continue to meet supplies specialist remuneration advice.
They do not provide the Groups objectives.
any other services to the Group.
BHP BILLITON PLC CONCISE ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 45 5604 BHPB Concise Sec 5-BC.
