2 INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY continued arises merely because the Director has a right of subrogation 2.14 Constitution in relation to a guarantee or indemnity referred to above The following text summarises the Constitution of relates to a contract that insures, or would insure, the BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association Director against liabilities the Director incurs as an officer of BHP Billiton Plc.
The effect of the Constitution of of BHP Billiton, but only if the contract does not make BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association BHP Billiton or a related body corporate the insurer of BHP Billiton Plc is, so far as possible, identical.
relates to any payment by BHP Billiton or a related body Where the term BHP Billiton is used in this description corporate in respect of an indemnity permitted by law, of the Constitution and Articles of Association, it can be or any contract relating to such an indemnity: or read to mean either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc.
is in a contract, or proposed contract with, or for the benefit Certain provisions of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited of, or on behalf of, a related body corporate and arises merely and the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc can only because the Director is a director of a related body corporate.
be amended where such amendment is approved by special We are, however, seeking shareholder approval at our 2008 resolution either: Annual General Meetings to amend the Articles of BHP Billiton Plc by approval as a Class Rights Action, where the amendment to take account of changes to Directors interests rules introduced results in a change to an Entrenched Provision: or by the new UK Companies Act 2006.
From 1 October 2008, otherwise, as a Joint Electorate Action.
the Companies Act 2006 will impose a duty on a Director of a company to which the Companies Act applies to avoid a situation A description of Joint Electorate Actions and Class Rights Actions is contained under the heading Equalisation of economic and in which he or she has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the voting rights in section 2.12.2 of this Report.
This duty is not infringed if either the situation cannot 2.14.1 Directors reasonably be regarded as likely to give rise to a conflict of interest or if the matter has been authorised by the Directors.
The management and control of the business and affairs of The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to BHP Billiton are vested in the Board of Directors which may authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where the companys exercise all powers and do everything that is within the power articles contain such an enabling provision.
The proposed of BHP Billiton, other than what is required to be exercised amendment to the Articles of BHP Billiton Plc give the Directors or done by BHP Billiton in a general meeting.
authority to approve such situations and the ability to make 2.14.2 Power to issue securities regulations governing the way in which required disclosures and any following authorisation will be made to and by the Directors, BHP Billiton may, pursuant to the Constitution and Articles of giving greater flexibility and ensuring that the highest standard Association, issue any shares or other securities with preferred, of corporate governance best practice may be adhered to.
deferred or other special rights, obligations or restrictions as and Further details are set out in the Notices of Meeting for the when the Directors may determine and on any other terms the 2008 Annual General Meetings.
Directors consider appropriate, provided that any such issue: does not affect any special rights conferred on the holders 2.14.4 Loans by Directors of any shares: and Any Director may lend money to BHP Billiton at interest with or is subject to the provisions regarding shareholder without security or may, for a commission or profit, guarantee the approval in the Constitution and Articles of Association.
repayment of any money borrowed by BHP Billiton and underwrite The rights attaching to a class other than ordinary shares or guarantee the subscription of shares or securities of BHP Billiton are expressed at the date of issue.
or of any corporation in which BHP Billiton may be interested without being disqualified as a Director and without being 2.14.3 Restrictions on voting by Directors liable to account for BHP Billiton for any commission or profit.
A Director may not vote in respect of any contract or arrangement 2.14.5 Retirement of Directors or any other proposal in which he or she has a material personal interest.
A Director shall not be counted in the quorum at a At every annual general meeting one-third of the Directors meeting in relation to any resolution on which he or she is or, if their number is not a multiple of three, then the number not entitled to vote.
nearest to but not less than one-third, must retire from office.
The Directors to retire are those longest in office since last being Subject to applicable laws, a Director is entitled to vote, and be elected.
As between Directors who were elected on the same counted in the quorum, in respect of any resolution concerning day, the Directors to retire are determined by lot in default of any of the following matters, namely where the material agreement between them.
Further, a Director must retire from personal interest: office at the conclusion of the third Annual General Meeting arises because the Director is a shareholder of BHP Billiton and after which the Director was elected or re-elected.
A retiring is held in common with the other shareholders of BHP Billiton director is eligible for re-election.
arises in relation to the Directors remuneration as a The Board continues to have a policy that requires a Director of BHP Billiton non-executive Director who has served on the Board for nine relates to a contract BHP Billiton is proposing to enter into years from the date of their first election to stand for annual that is subject to approval by the shareholders and will not re-election from the first Annual General Meeting after the impose any obligation on BHP Billiton if it is not approved expiration of their current term.
by the shareholders arises merely because the Director is a guarantor or has given an indemnity or security for all or part of a loan, or proposed loan, to BHP Billiton 60 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008
