3 Risk management governance structure 5.6 Risk management The principal aim of the Groups risk management governance 5.6.
1 Approach to risk management structure and system of internal control is to manage business We believe that the identification and management of risk risks, with a view to enhancing the value of shareholders is central to achieving the Corporate Objective of delivering investments and safeguarding assets.
Each year, the Board reviews Management has put in place a number of key policies, and considers the risk profile for the whole business.
This risk processes and independent controls to provide assurance profile covers both operational and strategic risks.
to the Board and the RAC as to the integrity of our reporting The Board has delegated the oversight of risk management to and effectiveness of our systems of internal control and risk the RAC.
In addition, the Board specifically requires the CEO management.
The governance assurance diagram in section 5.1 to implement a system of control for identifying and managing highlights the relationship between the Board and the various risk.
The Directors, through the RAC, review the systems that controls in the assurance process.
Some of the more significant have been established for this purpose and regularly review internal control systems include Board and management their effectiveness.
Committees, CSG RACs, the EWRM and internal audit.
The Group operates an Enterprise-Wide Risk Management CSG Risk and Audit Committees System EWRM that provides an over-arching and consistent The CSG RACs assist the RAC to monitor the Groups obligations framework for the assessment and management of risks.
in relation to financial reporting, internal control structure, Risks are ranked using a common methodology.
Where a risk risk management systems and the internal and external is assessed as material it is reported and reviewed by senior audit functions.
During the year, updated Risk Management Standards were approved and implemented across the Group.
Each half year, the Presidents and CFOs of each CSG and each of the Marketing, Shared Services Centres and Treasury Our Risk Management Policy can be found at functions must review internal controls and provide formal www.
representations to the Group Financial Controller, which are noted by the applicable CSG RAC, assuring compliance with 5.6.
2 Business risks our policies and procedures and confirming that internal control systems are adequate.
These representations are summarised The scope of our operations and the number of industries in and provided to the RAC.
which we operate and engage mean that a range of factors may impact our results.
Material risks that could negatively Board Committees affect our results and performance include: Directors also monitor risks and controls through the RAC, fluctuations in commodity prices and impacts arising the Remuneration Committee and the Sustainability Committee.
from global economic uncertainty fluctuations in currency exchange rates Management Committees influence of demand from China and related investments Management Committees also perform roles in relation to seeking resource security risk and control.
Strategic risks and opportunities arising from failure to discover new reserves, maintain or enhance changes in our business environment are regularly reviewed existing reserves or develop new operations by the Group Management Committee GMC and discussed by actions by governments including additional taxation, the Board.
The Financial Risk Management Committee FRMC infrastructure development and political events in reviews the effectiveness of internal controls relating to the countries in which we operate commodity price risk, counterparty credit risk, currency risk, inability to successfully integrate acquired businesses financing risk, interest rate risk and insurance.
Minutes of the GMC and the FRMC are provided to the Board.
The Investment inability to recover investments in mining and oil Review Committee IRC provides oversight for investment and gas projects processes across the business and coordinates the investment non-compliance to the Groups standards by toll-gating process for major investments.
Reports are made non-controlled assets to the Board on findings by the IRC in relation to major operating cost pressures and shortages on existing capital projects.
operations and expansion plans impact of health, safety and environmental exposures 5.7 Management and related regulations on operations and reputation unexpected natural and operational catastrophes Except for those matters that the Board has reserved for its climate change and greenhouse effects own decision making, the CEO holds delegated authority from inadequate human resource talent pool the Board to achieve the Corporate Objective.
The CEO has developed an Approvals Framework that delegates authority breaches in information technology security to management Committees and individual members of breaches in governance processes.
Notwithstanding those further delegations, the CEO remains accountable to the Board for the authority delegated to him.
1 Group Management Committee The senior management team of the Group is the GMC.
The role of the GMC is to provide advice to the CEO on matters that are strategic and long-term in nature or have the potential to significantly impact the Groups performance and reputation, and to make decisions on key business-wide policies, including the Charter, Code of Business Conduct, the Sustainable Development Policy, the Human Resources Strategy and the Risk Management Policy.
134 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
