7 Iron Ore Customer Sector Group In conjunction with our capacity expansion, we have substantially expanded our reserve evaluation capability to improve our Our iron ore CSG consists of our Western Australia Iron Ore reserve knowledge and extend the life of our Pilbara reserves.
business WAIO and a 50 per cent interest in the Samarco In June 2008, we announced a 23 per cent increase in our ore joint venture in Brazil.
reserve for our WAIO operations and we estimate that we have Western Australia Iron Ore significant additional mineralisation.
Our proven ore reserves are high grade, with average iron content ranging from 57.4 per cent WAIOs operations involve a complex integrated system at Yandi to 63.2 per cent at Mt Newman.
The reserve lives of of seven mines, more than 1,000 kilometres of rail and our mines at current production levels range from 12 years at port facilities, located in the Pilbara region of northern Mt Goldsworthy Northern to 61 years at Jimblebar.
Most of our sales take place under long-term volume contracts In response to surging demand for iron ore, we have been rapidly with steel producers in North Asia.
Prices are generally set expanding our WAIO operations.
Since 2001, we have completed through annual negotiations.
In the longer term, we are five expansion projects to increase our system production promoting a shift away from annually negotiated prices capacity from 69 mtpa to 129 mtpa 100 per cent basis.
to a system based on index prices.
All of these projects have been completed on time and on budget.
We now have a project underway to further increase Fortescue Metals Group has applied to the Australian National system capacity to 155 mtpa by the end of FY2010.
Additional Competition Council for access to our rail infrastructure in the projects now undergoing feasibility or pre-feasibility studies Pilbara.
See Section 8 Legal Proceedings Mt Newman and would, if approved and completed on schedule, increase system Goldsworthy railway lines.
If FMG is successful in its application, capacity to 300 mtpa by 2015.
Our share of FY2008 production its use of our railways may have a material adverse impact on was approximately 103.8 million tonnes of ore. our expected production from WAIO.
Our Pilbara reserve base is relatively concentrated, allowing Samarco us to plan our development around a series of integrated We are a 50-50 joint venture partner with Vale at the Samarco mining hubs joined to the ore bodies by conveyor or spur line.
During the 2008 fiscal year, Samarco The mining hub approach enables us to maximise the value of completed an expansion project consisting of a third pellet plant, installed infrastructure by using the same processing plant and a mine expansion, a new concentrator, port enhancements and rail infrastructure for a number of ore bodies.
Blending ore at a second slurry pipeline.
Our share of production in FY2008 was the hub gives us greater flexibility to responding to changing approximately 8.5 million tonnes of ore. Samarco has a reserve customer requirements and changing properties in the ore being life of 21 years at current production rates.
mined, as well as reducing the risk of port bottlenecks.
In recent years, we have also driven operational efficiency by a number of business improvement initiatives, such as our proprietary BLASOR development planning optimisation software, increased mining and processing automation, and using technology to increase the length and frequency of trains.
Information on Iron Ore mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
This table should be read in conjunction with the production and reserve tables.
Name, location, Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source Mt Newman joint We hold an 85% interest in Production began at the Mt Whaleback At Mt Whaleback, primary and secondary venture the Mt Newman joint venture.
orebody in 1969. crushing plants capacity of 35 mtpa : a The other 15% is held by Mitsui heavy media beneficiation plant capacity Pilbara region, Production continues to be sourced ITOCHU Iron 10%, ITOCHU of 8 mtpa and a train-loading facility.
Western Australia, from the major Mt Whaleback orebody, Minerals and Energy of Australia complemented by production from At orebody 25, an additional primary Australia 5%.
orebodies 18, 23, 25, 29 and 30. and secondary crushing plant capacity Open-cut mine We are the operators.
The mine is accessible Mining lease under the Iron Ore A crusher and train-loading facility by public road and Mt Newman Agreement Act at orebody 18.
Company-owned rail 1964, this expires in 2009 with Power comes from Alinta Dewaps Newman to the joint ventures the right to successive renewals Nelson Point shipping gas-fired power station via Company-owned of 21 years.
Yandi joint venture We hold an 85% interest in the We began development of the orebody Two processing plants and a primary Yandi joint venture.
The first shipment occurred crusher and overland conveyor are used Pilbara region, 15% is held by Mitsui Iron Ore in 1992. to crush and screen ore and deliver it Western Australia, Corporation 7%, ITOCHU to one of two train-loading facilities.
Australia Capacity was progressively expanded Minerals and Energy of between 1994 and 2003 and is currently Power comes from Alinta Dewaps Open-cut mine Australia 8%.
Newman gas-fired power station via The mine is accessible An independent contract mining Company-owned powerlines under by public road and company is the operator of long-term contracts.
to the Nelson Point Mining lease under the Iron Ore shipping facility at Marillana Creek Agreement Port Hedland.
Act 1991 expires in 2012 with renewal right to a further 42 years.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 37 2 INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY continued Information on Iron Ore mining operations continued Name, location, Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source Jimblebar We own 100% of the Jimblebar Production at Jimblebar began in Primary and secondary crushing plant lease.
We have a sublease March 1989. capacity of 8 mtpa.
Pilbara region, agreement over the Wheelara Western Australia, The ore currently being produced Power comes from Alinta Dewaps deposit with ITOCHU Minerals Australia is blended with ore produced from Newman gas-fired power station via and Energy of Australia, Mitsui Mt Whaleback and satellite orebodies Company-owned powerlines under Open-cut mine Iron Ore and four separate 18, 23, 25, 29 and 30 to create the long-term contracts.
The mine is accessible subsidiaries of Chinese Mt Newman blend.
by public road and steelmakers.
As a consequence Company-owned rail of this arrangement, we are to Port Hedland via a entitled to 85% of production 30 kilometre spur line from the Wheelara sublease.
linking with the main An independent contract mining Newman to Port company is the operator of Hedland railway.
Mining lease under the Iron Ore McCameys Monster Agreement Authorisation Act 1972 expires in 2009 with the rights to successive renewals of 21 years.
Mt Goldsworthy We hold an 85% interest in the Operations originally commenced at The primary crushers at Yarrie and joint venture Mt Goldsworthy joint venture.
the Mt Goldsworthy project in 1966 and Nimingarra, with a combined capacity The other 15% is held by Mitsui the Shay Gap mine in 1973.
The original of 8 mtpa, have been placed into care Pilbara region, Iron Ore Corporation 7% and mine closed in 1982 and the associated and maintenance.
Yarrie is currently Western Australia, ITOCHU Minerals and Energy Shay Gap mine closed in 1993.
Since using mobile in-pit crushing plant at Australia of Australia 8%.
then, mining has continued from the a rate of 2 mtpa.
Open-cut mine adjacent Nimingarra and Yarrie areas.
An independent contract mining An ore processing plant, primary crusher includes Area C, company is the operator of We opened Area C mine in 2003. and overland conveyor are located at Yarrie and the mine.
Area C with capacity of 42 mtpa.
Four mineral leases under the Power for Yarrie and Nimingarra is The mine is accessible Iron Ore Mt Goldsworthy sourced via overhead powerlines from by public road and Agreement Act 1964 and the Port Hedland gas-fired powered Company-owned rail the Iron Ore Goldsworthy station operated by Alinta Dewap to the joint ventures Nimingarra Agreement Act under long-term contracts.
Finucane Island 1972, which have expiry dates shipping facilities Area C sources its power from the Newman between 2008 and 2028 with and the Nelson Point gas-fired power station also operated by rights to successive renewals shipping facilities, Alinta Dewap under long-term contracts.
both located at Port Hedland.
A number of smaller mining leases granted under the Our railway spur links Mining Act 1978 in 2005.
Area C mine to the Newman main line.
38 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
indb 38 9 9 12 08 9:54:34 AM 12 08 9:54:34 AM Information on Iron Ore mining operations continued Name, location, Ownership, operation type of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source Samarco We own 50% of Samarco.
The Production began at the Germano mine There are two 396 kilometre iron ore other 50% is owned by Vale.
in 1977 and at the Alegria complex in slurry pipelines integrating the mining Southeast Brazil Samarco is operated as an 1992.
The Alegria complex has now complex to pellet plants.
Open-cut mine independent business with replaced the depleted Germano mine.
With the addition of the third pellet The mine is accessible its own management team.
An expansion occurred in 1997 when plant expansion, Samarco has the by public road.
The Brazilian Government has a second pellet plant was built.
In 2005, capacity to process and pump a total Conveyor belts granted mining concessions to an optimisation project increased pellet of 24 million tonnes of ore concentrate transport iron ore Samarco as long as it mines the feed and pellet production.
a year and produce and ship approximately to the beneficiation Alegria complex according to 21.6 million tonnes of pellets.
The most recent expansion occurred in plant and a an agreed plan.
2008 when a third pellet plant was built Samarco holds interests in two 396 kilometre slurry as well as a second pipeline.
These pipeline transports plants furnish approximately 19.2% pellet feed to the of Samarcos electricity requirements.
pellet plants on the coast.
Samarco has signed two agreements expiring in 2014 to purchase Iron pellets are remaining power needs from two exported via private local concessionaires that operate port facilities.
Development projects Samarco In October 2005, the Board approved construction of a third Western Australia Iron Ore pellet plant at Ponta Ubu, together with a mine expansion, During FY2008 the Rapid Growth Project RGP 3 was completed a new concentrator at Germano, port enhancements and and has delivered an additional 20 mtpa of capacity, bringing a second slurry pipeline.
The project has increased iron ore pellet the total installed capacity in the business to 129 mtpa capacity by 7.6 mtpa at a cost of US$1,480 million US$740 million 100 per cent share.
This has seen the delivery of additional our share.
Production commenced during in March 2008. mining and processing facilities at the Area C mine, together with expansions to the rail and port infrastructure, including Guinea the rebuilding of the C Berth at Finucane Island.
We are currently carrying out concept studies in Guinea The Board approved project expenditure of US$1,850 million West Africa at our Nimba deposit to determine the economic in March of 2007 for RGP 4.
The focus of this expansion project viability, sustainability impacts and management implications is within the Newman area and is expected to increase installed of operations in this area.
capacity to 155 mtpa 100 per cent share by early 2010.
A variety of feasibility studies are being undertaken as part of the plan to grow business capability to 300 mtpa by 2015, and of these, RGP5 is the most advanced.
In January, the Board approved our share of pre-expenditure of US$1,100 million US$ 930 million our share to progress the project while the feasibility study is being completed.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 39 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
