9 Independent advice 5.4 Board of Directors Review, re-election The Board and its Committees may seek advice from and renewal independent experts whenever it is considered appropriate.
1 Review Individual Directors, with the consent of the Chairman, may seek independent professional advice on any matter connected with The Board is committed to transparency in determining Board the discharge of their responsibilities, at the Groups expense.
membership and in assessing the performance of Directors.
Contemporary performance measures are considered an 5.3.
10 Remuneration important part of this process.
Details of our remuneration policies and practices and the The Board conducts regular evaluations of its performance, remuneration paid to the Directors executive and non-executive its Committees, the Chairman, individual Directors and the are set out in the Remuneration Report in section 6 of this governance processes that support Board work.
Shareholders will be invited to consider and to approve of the Boards performance is conducted by focusing on individual the Remuneration Report at the 2008 Annual General Meetings.
Directors in one year and the Board as a whole in the following year.
In addition, the Board conducts evaluations of the 5.3.
11 Share ownership performance of Directors retiring and seeking re-election and Non-executive Directors have agreed to apply at least 25 per cent uses the results of the evaluation when considering the re-election of their remuneration to the purchase of BHP Billiton shares until of Directors.
External independent advisers are engaged to assist they achieve a shareholding equivalent in value to one years these processes as necessary.
It is thought that the involvement of remuneration.
Thereafter, they must maintain at least that level an independent third party has assisted the evaluation processes of shareholding throughout their tenure.
All dealings by Directors to be both rigorous and fair.
This year, the Board has undertaken are reported to the Board and to the stock exchanges.
a review of the four permanent Committees, and an evaluation of individual Directors excluding Mr Boeckmann and Mr Rumble, Information on our policy governing the use of hedge who joined the Board after the review process was largely arrangements over shares in BHP Billiton by both Directors complete.
The reviews were carried out with the assistance and members of the Group Management Committee is set of external independent advisers.
These reviews indicated out in section 6.3.
that the Committees were meeting their Terms of Reference.
Details of the Shares held by Directors are set out in section 7.19 The effectiveness of the Board as a whole and of its Committees of this Report.
is assessed against the accountabilities set down in the Board 5.3.
12 Meetings Governance Document and each of the Committees Terms of Reference.
Matters considered in the assessment include: The Board meets as often as necessary to fulfil its role.
During the reporting year it met 12 times with nine of those meetings the effectiveness of discussion and debate at Board and being held in Australia, two in the UK and one in Hong Kong.
Committee meetings Generally, meetings run for two days.
The non-executive the effectiveness of the Boards and Committees processes Directors meet at the end of each Board meeting in the absence and relationship with management of the executive Director and management.
Attendance by the quality and timeliness of meeting agendas, Directors at Board and Board Committee meetings is set out Board and Committee papers and secretariat support in the table in section 5.4.
1. the composition of the Board, and each Committee, Members of the Group Management Committee and other focusing on the blend of skills and experience.
members of senior management attended meetings of the Board The performance of individual Directors is assessed against by invitation.
Senior managers delivered presentations on the a range of criteria including the ability of the Director to: status and performance of our businesses and matters reserved consistently take the perspective of creating shareholder value for the Board including the approval of budgets, annual financial contribute to the development of strategy statements and business strategy.
understand the major risks affecting the business 5.3.
13 Company Secretaries provide clear direction to management Ms Karen Wood was the Chief Governance Officer and contribute to Board cohesion Group Company Secretary until 11 July 2007.
From that date, commit the time required to fulfil the role Ms Jane McAloon became Group Company Secretary.
Prior to listen to and respect the ideas of fellow Directors this appointment, Ms McAloon was the Company Secretary of and members of management.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible The process is managed by the Chairman, but feedback on for developing and maintaining the information systems and the Chairmans performance is provided to him by Dr Schubert.
processes that enable the Board to fulfil its role.
The Group Company Secretary is also responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and advising the Board on governance matters.
All Directors have access to the Group Company Secretary for advice and services.
Independent advisory services are retained by the Group Company Secretary at the request of the Board or Board Committees.
Ms McAloon is supported by Ms Fiona Smith, who is Deputy Company Secretary of BHP Billiton Limited, and Ms Elizabeth Hobley, Deputy Company Secretary of BHP Billiton Plc.
Mr Robert Franklin was Company Secretary of BHP Billiton Plc until his resignation on 4 April 2008.
The Board appoints and removes the Company Secretaries.
36 - BHP BILLITON PLC CONCISE ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5604 BHPB Concise Sec 5-BC.
