Section 8 Legal proceedings 68 - BHP BILLITON PLC CONCISE ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5604 BHPB Concise Sec 5-BC.
indd 68 11 9 08 10:39:20 PM 11 9 08 10:39:20 PM 8 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We are involved from time to time in legal proceedings and Mr Lomas purports to represent members of the defined benefits governmental investigations of a character normally incidental portion of the Pension Plan.
In 2005, the defined contribution to our business, including claims and pending actions against members of the Pension Plan were included as parties to us seeking damages or clarification of legal rights and regulatory this action.
In many cases, insurance A motion to strike Mr Lomas request for the winding up of the or other indemnification protection afforded to us relates to Plan was heard on 27 November 2006.
The court struck out part such claims and may offset the financial impact on the Group of Mr Lomas claim, but allowed the remainder.
RALs appeal from of a successful claim.
that decision was dismissed, but further leave to appeal to the This section summarises the significant legal proceedings Ontario Court of Appeal has been granted.
and investigations in which we are currently involved.
RAL has notified its insurers of the application and has advised other third parties of possible claims against them in respect Pinal Creek Miami Wash area of matters alleged in the application.
BHP Copper Inc BHP Copper is involved in litigation concerning groundwater contamination resulting from historic mining Class action concerning Cerrejn privatisation operations near the Pinal Creek Miami Wash area located in The non-government organisation, Corporacin Colombia the State of Arizona.
BHP Copper and the other members of the Transparente CCT brought three separate class actions Pinal Creek Group which consists of BHP Copper, Phelps Dodge Popular Actions numbers 1,029, 1,032 and 1,048 against Miami Inc and Inspiration Consolidated Copper Co filed a various defendants in connection with the privatisation of contribution action in November 1991 in the Federal District Court 50 per cent of the Cerrejn Zona Norte mining complex in for the District of Arizona against former owners and operators of Colombia in 2002.
The complex is currently owned by Cerrejn the properties alleged to have caused the contamination.
As part Zona Norte SA CZN and Carbones del Cerrejn Limited CDC.
of this action, BHP Copper is seeking an equitable allocation of Our subsidiary Billiton Investment 3 BV owns a 33 per cent cleanup costs between BHP Copper, the other members of the share in CDC, and our subsidiaries Billiton Investment 3 BV Pinal Creek Group, and BHP Coppers predecessors.
BHP Coppers and Billiton Investment 8 BV BHP Billiton Shareholders predecessors have asserted a counterclaim in this action seeking collectively own a 33.33 per cent share in CZN.
The BHP Billiton indemnity from BHP Copper based upon their interpretation of Shareholders have been named as defendants in Popular the historical transaction documents relating to the succession Action 1,048, and BHP Billiton Company BV, BHP Billitons in interest of the parties.
original bidder for the complex, has been named as A State consent decree the Decree was approved by the a defendant in Popular Action 1,029.
Federal District Court for the District of Arizona in August 1998.
BHP Billiton Company BV was served with process in 2005 The Decree authorises and requires groundwater remediation and and filed a response in Action 1,029.
Neither of the BHP Billiton facility-specific source control activities, and the members of the Shareholders have been served with process.
Pinal Creek Group are jointly liable for performing the non-facility CCT alleges, in part, that the defendants failed to comply with specific source control activities.
Such activities are currently the privatisation process, and that the offer price for shares ongoing.
As of 30 June 2008, we have provided US$125 million in CZN between Stages 1 and 2 of the privatisation process 2007: US$122 million for our anticipated share of the planned was not correctly adjusted for inflation.
remediation work, based on a range reasonably foreseeable up to US$170 million 2007: US$166 million, and we have paid out Our share of the alleged adjustment of the CZN share price US$58 million up to 30 June 2008.
These amounts are based if converted to year 2000 US dollars would be approximately on the provisional equal allocation of these costs among the US$4 million.
In the alternative, CCT seeks declaration that the three members of the Pinal Creek Group.
BHP Copper is seeking privatisation is null and void and forfeiture of the transfer price a judicial restatement of the allocation formula to reduce its paid, of which our share, if converted to year 2000 US dollars share, based upon its belief, supported by relevant external legal would be approximately US$133 million.
In both instances, and technical advice, that its property has contributed a smaller CCT also seeks unquantified sanctions, including payment share of the contamination than the other parties properties.
of stamp taxes, an award of 15 per cent of all monies recovered BHP Copper is contingently liable for the whole of these costs by the defendants, together with interest on all amounts in the event that the other parties are unable to pay.
at the maximum rate authorised by law.
BHP Copper has also filed suit against a number of insurance In May 2007, CCT filed a further action Action number 1,667 carriers seeking to recover under various insurance policies against CZN.
This action was dismissed on the basis that for remediation, response, source control and other costs it was a replica of Popular Action 1,032.
The Plaintiff did not noted above incurred by BHP Copper.
file an appeal and the matter is therefore at an end.
Rio Algom Pension Plan In 2005, the Colombian Council of State applied a new legal interpretation applicable to popular actions in Colombia In June 2003, Alexander E Lomas, a retired member of the providing that plaintiffs may not file additional class actions Pension Plan for Salaried Employees of Rio Algom Mines Limited based on the same facts and legal arguments as existing Plan, filed a Notice of Application in a representative capacity actions.
As a consequence, the court nullified all proceedings in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice Commercial List against in Popular Action 1,029 with effect from 20 May 2004 and Rio Algom Limited RAL and the Plan Trustee alleging certain dismissed Popular Action 1,048.
All shareholder defendants improprieties in their administration of the Pension Plan and contend that the nullification means that the service of process use of Pension Plan funds from January 1966 onward.
in Action 1,029, and respective responses, which would include Mr Lomas seeks relief both quantified and unquantified, for himself process served on BHP Billiton Company BV and its response, and those Plan members he purports to represent, in respect are null and void.
of a number of alleged breaches committed by RAL, including CCT appealed the courts decision in relation to Popular allegations of breach of employment contracts, breach of trust, Actions 1,029, and 1,048, and the Council of State confirmed breach of the Trust Agreement underlying the Pension Plan.
the previous decision by which all proceedings of Popular Actions In particular: 1,029, and 1,048 had been nullified.
CCT was granted the right Mr Lomas seeks US$119 million C$121.6 million on account of a second appeal, and a decision on this second appeal is now of monies alleged to have been improperly paid out or withheld pending.
Popular Action 1,032 is currently in discovery phase.
from the Pension Plan, together with compound interest calculated from the date of each alleged wrongdoing, and punitive, aggravated and exemplary damages in the sum of US$1.9 million C$1.94 million.
BHP BILLITON PLC CONCISE ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 69 5604 BHPB Concise Sec 5-BC.
indd 69 11 9 08 10:39:26 PM 11 9 08 10:39:26 PM 8 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS continued Mt Newman and Goldsworthy railway lines The amount in dispute at 30 June 2008 for the bad debts disallowance is approximately US$1,162 million A$1,224 million In June 2004, Fortescue Metals Group Limited FMG applied net of tax, being primary tax US$656 million A$691 million, to the National Competition Council NCC to have use of penalties of US$164 million A$173 million and interest net of tax parts of the Mt Newman and Goldsworthy railway lines declared of US$342 million A$360 million.
An amount of US$606 million as a service under Part IIIA of the Trade Practices Act 1974.
A$638 million in respect of the disputed amounts has been paid Declaration under Part IIIA confers a statutory right to use of the pursuant to ATO disputed assessments guidelines, which require service, on terms that are determined by arbitration if agreement that taxpayers generally must pay half of the tax in dispute to cannot be reached by negotiation.
The NCC found that the two defer recovery proceedings.
Upon any successful challenge of railway lines each provide separate services, and that while the the assessments, any sums paid will be refundable with interest.
Mt Newman line could be declared, the Goldsworthy line could not because it is part of a production process.
The NCC then BHP Billiton Finance Ltd has also commenced judicial review proceeded to consider the Mt Newman railway line aspect proceedings in the Federal Court challenging the ATOs decision of the application.
not to reduce the interest imposed in respect of loss transferees.
The judicial review proceedings have been dismissed with a In December 2004, BHP Billiton Iron Ore Pty Ltd BHPBIO lodged right of reinstatement to enable the BHP Billiton Finance Limited an application with the Federal Court, challenging the NCCs appeal to proceed first.
decision in relation to the application of the production process definition to the Mt Newman railway.
FMG similarly instituted In November 2007 and March 2008, the ATO issued further proceedings in the Federal Court appealing NCCs decision assessments disallowing capital allowances claimed on the plant in relation to the Goldsworthy railway.
The Federal Court held and equipment funded by the loan from BHP Billiton Finance Ltd in favour of FMG, and BHPBIO appealed this decision to the relating to the Boodarie Iron project.
The amount in dispute at Full Court of the Federal Court.
The majority of the Full Court 30 June 2008 is approximately US$629 million A$662 million, decided in favour of FMG.
BHPBIO appealed this decision being primary tax US$368 million A$387 million, penalties to the High Court, which heard the appeal on 29 July 2008, US$92 million A$97 million and interest net of tax of and has reserved its decision.
The Company has lodged objections against the amended assessments which have been In the interim, the NCC proceeded to recommend to the Federal disallowed by the ATO.
The Company has lodged appeals against Treasurer that the Mt Newman railway line be declared.
In May some of these objection decisions, and will lodge the remainder 2006, having not published a decision, the Federal Treasurer was by October 2008.
The Company also commenced judicial review deemed to have decided not to declare the Mt Newman railway.
proceedings in the Federal Court challenging the ATOs decision FMG sought a reconsideration of this decision by the Australian not to reduce the interest imposed in respect of the amended Competition Tribunal.
This proceeding is still in its interlocutory assessments.
The judicial review proceedings have been dismissed stages and a hearing is not expected until the first half of 2009. with a right of reinstatement to enable the Companys appeal In November 2007, FMG lodged a further Part IIIA application against the amended assessments to proceed first.
with the NCC for declaration of the whole of the Goldsworthy railway line.
FMG also lodged applications with the NCC for Petroleum Resource Rent Tax litigation declaration of Rio Tinto Ltds Hamersley and Robe railway lines.
BHP Billiton Petroleum Bass Strait Pty Ltd commenced litigation In June 2008, the NCC issued a draft recommendation that use in the Federal Court of Australia, disputing the ATOs assessment of the Goldsworthy railway line be declared.
The NCC has advised of the taxing point for Petroleum Resource Rent Tax purposes that it issued its final recommendation to the Federal Treasurer on in relation to sales gas and LPG produced from the Gippsland 29 August 2008.
The NCC will publish its final recommendation as Joint Venture.
soon as practicable after the Treasurer publishes his decision as to Petroleum Resource Rent Tax has been paid and expensed based whether or not to declare the relevant services.
The Treasurer has on the ATOs assessment and any success will result in a book 60 days in which to reach a decision about the recommendation and cash benefit.
If the Treasurer does not publish his decision in relation to one or more of the applications within Given the complexity of the matters under dispute, it is not 60 days, he is deemed to have decided not to declare the relevant possible at this time to accurately quantify the anticipated service or services.
The decision of the Treasurer is again subject benefit to BHP Billiton Petroleum Bass Strait Pty Ltd. to reconsideration by the Australian Competition Tribunal.
Former Operations Ok Tedi Mining Limited Australian Taxation Office assessments In December 2006, seven individual plaintiffs the Plaintiffs said The Australian Taxation Office ATO issued assessments to be representing the members of seven clans from the vicinity against subsidiary companies, primarily BHP Billiton Finance Ltd, of the Ok Tedi mine obtained an order of the National Court of in respect of the financial years 1999 to 2002.
The assessments Papua New Guinea joining BHP Billiton Limited as a defendant relate to the deductibility of bad debts in respect of funding to proceedings against the current shareholders of Ok Tedi Mining subsidiaries that undertook the Beenup, Boodarie Iron and Limited and a previous managing director.
Ok Tedi Mining Limited Hartley projects.
BHP Billiton Finance Ltd lodged appeals is the owner and operator of the Ok Tedi mine.
in the primary proceedings on 17 July 2006.
BHP Billiton transferred all of its shareholding in OK Tedi Mining BHP Billiton Finance Ltd filed its affidavits between 30 April 2008 Limited to PNG Sustainable Development Programme Company and 5 May 2008.
The ATO served a notice of discovery on Limited in February 2002.
BHP Billiton Finance Ltd provided discovery on The plaintiffs sought unspecified damages for numerous matters, 1 August 2008.
The ATOs affidavits were due to be filed by including contamination of the environment and adverse effects 27 August 2008, but that deadline was not met.
The matter to fishing, drinking water, irrigation of crops and washing, as has been relisted for directions on 3 October 2008 and set well as US$3.75 billion in exemplary damages.
On 20 November 2007, the National Court of Papua New Guinea dismissed the entire claim.
The plaintiffs appeal of this decision will be heard by the Papua New Guinea Supreme Court on 2 October 2008.
70 - BHP BILLITON PLC CONCISE ANNUAL REPORT 2008
