4 Sustainability Committee Report The Sustainability Committee met six times during the year.
The The Remuneration Committee met five times during the year.
Its members are Dr John Buchanan Chairman, Dr David Jenkins, members of the Committee are: Dr John Schubert Chairman, the Hon E Gail fide Planque and Mr Carlos Cordeiro.
All of the Mr Paul Anderson and the Hon E Gail fide Planque.
All members Committee members are independent non-executive Directors.
of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
Mr Gordon Clark of Kepler Associates acts as an independent Role and focus adviser to the Committee.
The role of the Sustainability Committee is to assist the Role and focus Board in its oversight of: The role of the Committee is to assist the Board in its our compliance with applicable legal and regulatory oversight of: requirements associated with health, safety, environment the remuneration policy and its specific application to the and community HSEC matters CEO and the CEOs direct reports, and its general application our performance in relation to HSEC matters to all employees the performance and leadership of the HSEC and the the adoption of annual and longer-term incentive plans Sustainable Development functions the determination of levels of reward for the CEO and HSEC risks approval of reward to the CEOs direct reports our Annual Sustainability Summary Report the annual evaluation of the performance of the CEO, communication to shareholders regarding the work by giving guidance to the Chairman of the Committee on behalf of the Board.
communication to shareholders regarding remuneration policy and the Committees work on behalf of the Board, Sustainable development governance including the preparation of the Remuneration Report Our approach to HSEC and sustainable development for inclusion in the Annual Report governance is characterised by: compliance with applicable legal and regulatory the Sustainability Committee overseeing the HSEC requirements associated with remuneration matters.
matters across the Group Activities undertaken during the year business line management having primary responsibility and accountability for HSEC performance Full details of the Committees work on behalf of the Board the HSEC function providing advice and guidance directly, are set out in the Remuneration Report in section 6. as well as through a series of networks across the business During the year the Committee assessed its performance in seeking input and insight from external experts such as accordance with its Terms of Reference, with the assistance of our Forum for Corporate Responsibility an independent external adviser.
As a result of that assessment clear links between remuneration and HSEC performance.
the Committee is satisfied it has met its Terms of Reference.
Activities undertaken during the year 5.5.
3 Nomination Committee Report During the year the Sustainability Committee considered The Nomination Committee met seven times during the year.
reports on HSEC audits and implementation of the Groups The members of the Committee are Mr Don Argus Chairman, Climate Change Policy, reviewed the Groups performance Dr John Buchanan and Dr John Schubert.
All members of against the HSEC public targets and the Key Performance the Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
Indicators for the HSEC and Sustainable Development functions, and conducted a site visit.
The Committee Role and focus also reviewed the performance of the Vice President HSEC The role of the Committee is to assist in ensuring that the Board and Sustainable Development.
The Committee reviewed is comprised of individuals who are best able to discharge the and recommended to the Board the approval of the responsibilities of a Director, having regard to the highest annual Sustainability Summary Report for publication.
It does so by focusing on: The Sustainability Summary Report identifies our targets reviewing the skills represented on the Board and for HSEC matters and its performance against those targets.
identifying skills that may be required The Committee also assessed its performance in accordance with its Terms of Reference, with the assistance of an retaining the services of independent search firms and identifying suitable candidates for the Board independent external adviser.
As a result of that assessment the Committee is satisfied it has met its Terms of Reference.
overseeing the review of the assessment of the performance of individual Directors and making recommendations to A copy of the Sustainability Summary Report the Board on the endorsement of retiring Directors seeking and Full Sustainability Report can be found at re-election refer to section 5.4.
communicating to shareholders regarding the work of the Committee on behalf of the Board.
Activities undertaken during the year There were changes to the composition of the Board during the year.
Mr Charles Goodyear retired from the Board on 30 September 2007 and Dr David Brink retired from the Board on 28 November 2007.
Dr David Morgan joined the Board on 1 January 2008.
The Committee retained the services of Heidrick & Struggles and Egon Zehnder to assist in the identification of potential candidates for the Board, and as mentioned in section 5.3.
2 Mr Alan Boeckmann and Mr Keith Rumble joined the Board after the end of the financial year.
During the year the Committee assessed its performance, with the assistance of an independent external adviser.
As a result of that assessment the Committee is satisfied that it is functioning effectively.
40 - BHP BILLITON PLC CONCISE ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5604 BHPB Concise Sec 5-BC.
