4 Service contracts and termination provisions continued 6.4.
5 Retirement benefits Entitlements under the GIS, LTIP and Retirement Plans With the exception of Alex Vanselow, who receives a on ceasing employment defined benefit entitlement, all members of the GMC receive a defined contribution entitlement.
To deliver the entitlement, The rules of the GIS and LTIP cover any entitlements participants the individual is given a choice of funding vehicles: a defined might have on termination in relation to short-term and long-term contribution plan, an unfunded Retirement Savings Plan, incentives.
They outline the circumstances in which all participants an International Retirement Plan or a cash payment in lieu.
would be entitled to receive any Deferred Shares, Options or Performance Shares that had been granted, but which had not Executive Directors vested at the date of termination.
The rules of the GIS and LTIP Prior to his appointment as CEO, Marius Kloppers had provide that should a participant cease employment for any the choice of a 1 defined benefit, 2 defined contribution reason other than death disability, resignation or termination underpinned by a defined benefit promise or 3 cash in lieu for cause, the following would apply: pension entitlement for each year since 1 July 2001.
He elected Deferred Shares and Options already granted would vest in full to take cash in lieu for each year except for FY2004 when he Participants would have a right to retain entitlements to elected to take a defined contribution entitlement with a defined Performance Shares that have been granted but that are benefit underpin.
Mr Kloppers retains the option to convert the not yet exercisable.
The number of such Performance Shares entitlement accrued in the defined contribution fund to a defined would be pro-rated to reflect the period of service from the benefit entitlement.
However, since the value of his defined commencement of the relevant performance period to the contribution entitlement US$531,431 exceeds the transfer date of departure and would only vest and become exercisable value of the defined benefit underpin that he would be entitled to the extent that the Performance Hurdles are met.
to should he revert to the defined benefit promise US$530,865 The Committee regards it as an important principle that both measured at 30 June 2008, the entitlement is being where a participant resigns without the Committees consent, treated on a defined contribution basis.
Upon his succession or their employment is terminated for cause, they forfeit the as CEO on 1 October 2007, Mr Kloppers relinquished all future entitlement to their unvested Deferred Shares, Options and defined benefit entitlements.
His defined contribution entitlement Performance Shares.
is fixed at an annual rate of 40 per cent of base salary.
The rules of the GIS outline the circumstances in which participants Prior to his retirement, on 1 January 2008, Charles Goodyears would be entitled to a cash award for the performance year in remuneration included a payment in lieu of a contribution by the which they cease employment.
Such circumstances depend on the Group to a pension fund fixed at an annual rate of 48 per cent reason for leaving.
The only circumstances in which the Committee of base salary.
Mr Goodyear elected to defer receipt of this has considered using its discretion to allow members of the amount into an unfunded Retirement Savings Plan established GMC to receive a cash award in event of departure is for those for this purpose.
The Plan allowed him to accumulate the individuals who have retired or are retiring.
annual payments and to defer receipt until after he retired from the Group.
On retirement, he was entitled to receive the On retirement, the CEO and his direct reports will receive any accumulated value of funds under the Retirement Savings Plan.
entitlements accrued under the rules of their respective retirement plans and as defined under their contractual arrangements.
6.5 Group Management Committee remuneration and share awards 6.5.
1 Summary of remuneration for Marius Kloppers The following table sets out the fixed and at risk remuneration for Marius Kloppers for the year ended 30 June 2008.
A remuneration table prepared in accordance with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 1985 and the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and relevant accounting standards, in section 6.5.
Base Retirement Other Total fixed Annual Expected Value Expected Value Total at risk US dollars salary benefits benefits remuneration cash award Performance Shares Deferred Shares remuneration 1 2008 1,677,070 671,215 74,288 2,422,573 1,805,878 3,779,409 970,563 6,555,850 Notes 1 Consists of annual cash award to be paid in respect of FY2008 and the Expected Values of the Performance Shares and Deferred Shares granted in December 2007.
Awards of Performance Shares under the LTIP including the 6.5.
2 Share awards number of shares awarded in FY2008 The following tables set out the interests held by members In accordance with the rules of the LTIP, no Performance Shares of the GMC in BHP Billitons incentive schemes, and include vest, or can be exercised, prior to the end of the performance ordinary shares under award and ordinary shares under option.
period unless a participant ceases employment due to death, With the exception of Alberto Calderon, whose awards were serious injury, disability or illness, which renders the participant over BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares, members of the GMC were incapable of continuing employment.
The first vesting date granted awards in FY2008 over BHP Billiton Limited ordinary will be in August 2009. shares.
No member of the GMC was awarded Options under the The index of peer group companies for the LTIP since its GIS in FY2008.
All vested GIS Deferred Shares, GIS Performance implementation in 2004, comprises, or has comprised, the Shares, PSP Performance Rights, GIS Options and ESP Options following companies: Alcan, Alcoa, Alumina, Anglo American, are exercisable subject to limitations imposed by the Groups Apache, BG Group, BP, Cameco, Vale, ConocoPhillips, Devon Securities Dealing Code.
Energy, Exxon Mobil, Falconbridge, Freeport McMoRan, Impala, No further awards of GIS Performance Shares, ESP Options Inco, Marathon Oil, Newmont Mining, Norilsk, Peabody Energy, and PSP Performance Rights will be granted.
Phelps Dodge, Rio Tinto, Shell, Southern Copper, Teck Cominco, Total, Unocal, Woodside Petroleum and Xstrata.
A description of the Performance Hurdle applying to the LTIP Performance Shares is set out in section 6.3.
142 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
