Notes to the BHP Billiton Plc unconsolidated parent company Balance Sheet 1.
Principal accounting policies iv Deferred taxation i Basis of Accounting Tax-effect accounting is applied in respect of corporation tax.
Full provision is made for deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets The BHP Billiton Plc entity accounts are prepared in accordance that represent the tax effect of timing differences which arise from with the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and applicable UK the recognition in the accounts of items of revenue and expense in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP using the periods different to those in which they are taxable or deductible historical cost convention and have been applied on a consistent for corporation tax purposes.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities basis with the year ended 30 June 2007. are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply when The Company has applied the exemption within FRS 29 Financial the timing differences are expected to reverse.
Instruments: Disclosures available to parent entity accounts presented in consolidated financial statements that are publicly v Share-based payments available where disclosures are presented on a group basis.
The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set The Groups financial risk management disclosures are presented out in note 1 of the financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group in note 26 of the financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group.
and is applied with respect to all rights and options granted over BHP Billiton Plc shares including those granted to employees of other ii Foreign currencies Group companies.
However, the cost of rights and options granted The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set out is recovered from subsidiaries of the Group where the participants in note 1 of the financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group.
Details of the Employee Share Ownership Plans and the Billiton Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust the Trust are iii Investments contained in note 25 of the financial statements of the BHP Billiton Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provisions Group.
BHP Billiton Plc is the Trusts sponsoring company and so for impairments.
the financial statements of BHP Billiton Plc represent the combined financial statements of the Company and the Trust.
Fixed asset investments are assessed to ensure carrying amounts do not exceed estimated recoverable amounts.
The carrying vi Revenue recognition amount of each income generating unit is reviewed at least annually Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis.
Dividend income to evaluate whether the carrying amount is recoverable or more is recognised on declaration by subsidiaries.
regularly if an event or change in circumstances indicates that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
If the asset vii Treasury shares is determined to be impaired, an impairment loss will be recorded The consideration paid for the repurchase of BHP Billiton Plc shares and the asset written down based on the amount by which the asset which are held as treasury shares is recognised as a reduction in carrying amount exceeds the higher of net realisable value and value shareholders funds and represents a reduction in distributable in use.
Value in use is generally determined by discounting expected reserves.
future cash flows using a risk-adjusted pre-tax discount rate appropriate to the risks inherent in the asset.
viii Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set out in note 1 of the financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group.
Fixed assets At 30 June 2008 the Company held an investment of US$3,131 million 2007: US$3,131 million in BHP Billiton Group Ltd which represents 100 per cent of the ordinary shares on issue.
BHP Billiton Group Ltd is included in the consolidation of the BHP Billiton Group.
Creditors amounts falling due within one year 2008 2007 US$M US$M Bank overdraft 7 5 a Amounts owed to Group undertakings 1,007 955 Accruals 1 2 Total creditors 1,015 962 a The audit fee payable in respect of the audit of the BHP Billiton Plc company financial statements was a nominal amount refer to note 33 of the BHP Billiton Group financial statements for fees for the Group as a whole.
This has been included within amounts owed to Group undertakings.
Provisions for liabilities and charges Pension Employee liabilities benefits Total US$M US$M US$M At 1 July 2007 10 6 16 Charge for the year 22 Actuarial gain taken to profit and loss account reserve 1 1 Utilisation 1 1 Contributions Transfers and other movements At 30 June 2008 11 7 18 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 237 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
