Accountability Delegation 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued 5.1 Governance at BHP Billiton BHP Billitons Corporate Objective is to create long-term This statement outlines our system of governance.
Shareholders value through the discovery, development and conversion are reminded that we operate as a single economic entity under a Dual Listed Company DLC structure with a unified Board of natural resources and the provision of innovative customer and management.
We have primary listings in Australia and and market-focused solutions.
the UK and are registered with the US Securities and Exchange In pursuing the Corporate Objective, we have committed to Commission and listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
the highest level of governance and strive to foster a culture In formulating our governance framework, the regulatory that values and rewards exemplary ethical standards, personal requirements in Australia, the UK and the US have been and corporate integrity and respect for others.
taken into account, together with prevailing standards of best practice.
Where governance principles vary across these Our approach to governance is predicated on the belief jurisdictions the Board has resolved to adopt what we consider that there is a link between high-quality governance and to be the better of the prevailing standards.
the creation of shareholder value.
Our expectations of our employees and those to whom we contract business are It is our view that governance is not just a matter for the Board, set out in our Code of Business Conduct.
a good governance culture must be fostered throughout the organisation.
Don Argus, Chairman BHP Billiton Governance Assurance Diagram Board Board Governance Document Nomination Risk & Audit Sustainability Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Chief Executive Officer External Management Governance and Assurance Auditors Key Policies Key Committees Charter Group Management Committee Risk Management Financial Risk Management Committee Sustainable Development CSG RACs Group Audit Resource Planning, Extraction Investment Review Committee Services and Development Disclosure Committee Human Resources Global Ethics Panel Market Risk Management Committee Key Standards Conflict of Interest Key Procedures Code of Business Conduct Representation Letters HSEC Anti Trust Financial Stewardship Reviews Audits Anti Bribery Investment Evaluation Contracts and Commitments CSG and Asset Appraisals Risk Management Portfolio Risk Management Market Disclosure and Securities Dealing US Disclosure Controls Investment Peer Review Information Management Major Projects Financial External and Management Reporting HSEC Management Human Resources External Communications Provision of Other Services by Auditor Ore Oil Gas Approvals Framework Reserves Review 32 - BHP BILLITON PLC CONCISE ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5604 BHPB Concise Sec 5-BC.
