1 Key principles of our remuneration policy continued Further details of the proposed changes are set out in the Notices convening the 2008 Annual General Meetings.
The remuneration paid and payable to members of the GMC including executive Directors in respect of FY2008 is disclosed The GIS incentivises the executives to achieve annual goals in this Report.
It comprises fixed and at risk components.
linked to the business strategy, budget and personal objectives.
The manner in which these components are determined is Measures are set to reflect the critical KPIs of the Group in outlined in this section.
Tables showing the actual remuneration a combination of financial and non-financial areas.
The key paid and payable, prepared in accordance with the requirements Group measures for the GMC in FY2008 were Health and of the UK Companies Act 1985 and the Australian Corporations Safety, Shareholder Value Added and Net Present Value Added.
Act 2001, and relevant accounting standards, are set out in In addition, each member of the GMC had personal KPIs based section 6.5.
2 for non-executive on their key area of responsibility.
Eighty per cent of the GMC Directors.
A summary of remuneration paid to Mr Kloppers, measures were Group-based and 20 per cent were personal.
as CEO and executive Director, appears in section 6.5.
1 of The Committee believes that the KPIs set, and the relative this Report.
weightings given to the different categories of KPI effectively 6.3.
2 Service contracts incentivise short-term performance.
At the end of each year, the performance level achieved against each KPI is measured It is our policy that service contracts have no fixed term, but are and awards are calculated and paid according to the level capable of termination on 12 months notice and that we retain of performance.
the right to terminate the contract immediately by making a payment equal to 12 months base salary and retirement benefit For FY2009, the GMC scorecard will continue to be based contribution in lieu of notice.
All members of the GMC have on health and safety, financial and personal performance.
4 of this Report for full details.
Long-term incentives, in the form of Performance Shares, These contracts typically outline the components of remuneration are awarded annually under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
paid, but do not prescribe how remuneration levels are to be modified from year-to-year.
The diversified natural resources industry is capital intensive, cyclical and long term.
3 Fixed remuneration accessing high-quality resources, successfully developing new projects and maintaining efficient and safe operations.
Fixed remuneration is made up of base salary, retirement and other benefits.
It represents approximately 28 per cent The Committee believes that in this environment, success can best be measured by our Total Shareholder Return TSR of the individuals remuneration package based on target performance and using Expected Values for share awards.
performance relative to the TSR of an index of a peer group of companies weighted 75 per cent to mining and 25 per cent Base salary is targeted at industry average levels for to oil and gas the Index.
comparable roles in global companies of similar complexity and size.
Market data are used to benchmark salary levels The Performance Hurdle applicable to the awards granted in and to inform decisions on base salary changes.
Base salaries December 2007, and to those to be granted in December 2008, are set by reference to the scope and nature of the individuals requires BHP Billitons TSR over a five-year performance period performance and experience, and are reviewed each year.
to be greater than the weighted average TSR of the Index.
The review takes into account any change in the scope of To the extent that the Performance Hurdle is not achieved, the role performed by the individual, any changes required awards are forfeited.
to meet the principles of the remuneration policy and our For all Performance Shares to vest, BHP Billitons TSR must market competitiveness.
exceed the weighted average TSR of the Index by a specified Retirement benefits for new entrants are delivered under percentage, determined each year by the Committee.
All defined benefit plans are now the establishment of the LTIP in 2004, this percentage has closed to new entrants.
Employees who participate in these been set each year at 5.5 per cent.
This annual amount equates legacy defined benefit plans can continue to accrue benefits to exceeding the weighted average TSR of the Index over in such plans for both past and future service unless they the five-year performance period by more than 30 per cent.
have opted to transfer to a defined contribution plan.
For performance between the weighted average TSR of the Index and 5.5 per cent per annum above the Index, vesting Other benefits include health insurance, relocation costs, occurs on a sliding scale.
life assurance and tax advisory services as applicable.
All such benefits are non-pensionable.
In the event that the Committee does not believe that BHP Billitons achievement of the TSR hurdle properly reflects 6.3.
4 At risk remuneration the financial performance of the Group, it retains the discretion At risk remuneration is geared to Group performance and is to lapse the Performance Shares.
It is anticipated that such made up of short-term and long-term incentives.
It represents discretion would only be used in exceptional circumstances.
approximately 72 per cent of the individuals remuneration The maximum award that may be made to a participant in package based on target performance and using Expected any one financial year is limited by the rules of the LTIP to an Values for share awards.
award with an Expected Value of twice their annual base salary.
Short-term incentives are delivered annually under the Group Expected Value has been used because it enables the Committee Incentive Scheme GIS.
Awards under the GIS are split equally to set total target remuneration levels for the CEO and his direct between a cash award being a percentage of base salary and a reports, taking into account the degree of difficulty of the LTIP grant of Deferred Shares and or Options to encourage employee Performance Hurdle and the consequent probability of awards retention and share ownership.
These Deferred Shares and or vesting, together with ensuring that awards are externally Options are subject to a two-year vesting period before they competitive.
The Expected Value can be defined as the average can be exercised.
If, during that period, an individual resigns outcome weighted by probability, and takes into account without the Committees consent, or is dismissed for cause, the difficulty of achieving performance conditions and the their entitlement is forfeited.
Members of the GMC have a correlation between these and share price appreciation.
target cash award of 70 per cent of base salary and a maximum The valuation methodology also takes into account factors award of 105 per cent.
including volatility and forfeiture risk.
The Board has proposed a series of changes to the Group Participants in the GIS and the LTIP are eligible to receive Incentive Scheme, subject to the approval of shareholders a payment equal to the dividend amount that would have at the 2008 Annual General Meetings.
In summary, it is been earned on the underlying shares represented by the proposed that the target cash award for the CEO and members Deferred Shares, Options and Performance Shares awarded of the GMC be increased to 80 per cent of base salary and the to those participants the Dividend Equivalent Payment.
maximum award be increased to 160 per cent of base salary.
46 - BHP BILLITON PLC CONCISE ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5604 BHPB Concise Sec 5-BC.
