7 DIRECTORS REPORT continued 7.22.2 Constitution continued Conditions governing general meetings Redemption of preference shares All provisions relating to general meetings apply with any necessary modifications to any special meeting of any class If BHP Billiton Limited at any time proposes to create and issue of shareholders that may be held.
Therefore, the following any preference shares, the preference shares may be issued information relates equally to general meetings and any on the terms that they are to be redeemed or, at the option of special meeting of any class of shareholders.
either or both BHP Billiton Limited and the holder, are liable to be redeemed, whether out of share capital, profits or otherwise.
The Board may and shall on requisition in accordance with applicable laws call a general meeting of the shareholders The preference shares confer on the holders the right to convert at the time and place or places and in the manner determined the preference shares into ordinary shares if, and on the basis, by the Board.
No shareholder may convene a general meeting the Board determines at the time of issue of the preference shares.
of BHP Billiton except where entitled under law to do so.
Any The preference shares are to confer on the holders: Director may convene a general meeting whenever the Director the right on redemption and on a winding up to payment in thinks fit.
General meetings can also be cancelled, postponed cash in priority to any other class of shares of i the amount or adjourned.
Notice of a general meeting must be given to paid or agreed to be considered as paid on each of the each shareholder entitled to vote at the meeting and such notice preference shares ii the amount, if any, equal to the of meeting must be given in the form and manner in which the aggregate of any dividends accrued but unpaid and Board thinks fit.
Five shareholders of the relevant Company of any arrears of dividends: and present in person or by proxy constitute a quorum for a meeting.
the right, in priority to any payment of dividend on any other A shareholder who is entitled to attend and cast a vote at a class of shares, to the preferential dividend.
general meeting of BHP Billiton Limited may appoint a person as a proxy to attend and vote for the shareholder in accordance There is no equivalent provision in the Articles of Association with the law.
7.22.3 Share ownership Capital calls Neither the Constitution nor the Articles of Association impose any Subject to the terms on which any shares may have been issued, limitations on the rights to own securities other than restrictions the Board may make calls on the shareholders in respect of all that reflect the takeovers codes under relevant Australian and UK monies unpaid on their shares.
BHP Billiton has a lien on every law.
The Australian Foreign Acquisition and Takeovers Act 1975 partly paid share for all amounts payable in respect of that share.
imposes a number of conditions, which restrict foreign ownership Each shareholder is liable to pay the amount of each call in the of Australian-based companies.
manner, at the time and at the place specified by the Board subject to receiving at least 14 days notice specifying the time Neither BHP Billiton Limited nor BHP Billiton Plc is directly or and place for payment.
A call is considered to have been made indirectly controlled by another corporation or by any government.
at the time when the resolution of the Board authorising the 7.22.4 Share capital call was passed.
The total number of BHP Billiton Limited shares of all classes is Borrowing powers 3,358,554,497 of which 99.99 per cent are ordinary shares fully Subject to relevant law, the Directors may exercise all powers paid.
The total number of BHP Billiton Plc shares of all classes is of BHP Billiton to borrow money, and to mortgage or charge 2,763,024,202, of which 99.99 per cent are authorised ordinary its undertaking, property, assets both present and future shares of US$0.50 par value.
The remaining 0.002 per cent and all uncalled capital or any part or parts thereof and to issue comprises the 50,000 5.5 per cent preference shares of 1 each, debentures and other securities, whether outright or as collateral the Special Voting Share and the Equalisation Share.
security for any debt, liability or obligation of BHP Billiton Further information regarding BHP Billitons share capital or of any third party.
and its buy-back programs is set out in section 7.2 of this Changes to rights of shareholders Directors Report.
Rights attached to any class of shares issued by either 7.22.5 Employee share ownership plans BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc can only be varied In respect of employee share awards, the Group utilises the whether as a Joint Electorate Action or a Class Rights Action following trusts: where such variation is approved both: The Billiton Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust the Trust by the Company that issued the relevant shares, is a discretionary trust for the benefit of all employees as a special resolution: and of BHP Billiton Plc and its subsidiaries.
The trustee is an by the holders of the issued shares of the affected class, either independent company, resident in Jersey.
The Trust uses at a special meeting by resolution passed by not less than funds provided by BHP Billiton Plc and or its subsidiaries as three-quarters of the holders present at the meeting and appropriate to acquire ordinary shares to enable awards to by voting, or in writing signed by the holders of at least be made or satisfied under the LTIP, GIS, RSS, CIP and other three-quarters of the issued shares of that class.
employee share schemes operated by BHP Billiton Plc from However, we are seeking shareholder approval at our time to time.
The ordinary shares may be acquired by purchase 2008 Annual General Meetings to amend the Constitution in the market or by subscription at not less than nominal value.
of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of BHP Billiton Plc to The BHP Performance Share Plan Trust PSP Trust is a bring the above procedure in line with section 334 of the new discretionary trust established to distribute shares under Companies Act 2006 UK by requiring the proposed variation selected BHP Billiton Limited employee share plan schemes.
be approved by both the relevant Company and by a special The trustee of the trust is BHP Billiton Employee Plan Pty Ltd, resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the an Australian company.
The trust uses funds provided by issued shares of the class affected or with the written consent BHP Billiton Limited and or its subsidiaries to acquire shares on of members with at least 75 per cent of the votes in the class market to satisfy exercises made under the LTIP, GIS, and PSP.
Further details are set out in the Notices of Meeting The BHP Billiton Limited Executive Incentive Schemes Trust for the 2008 Annual General Meetings.
BEIS Trust is a discretionary trust established for the purposes of holding shares in BHP Billiton Limited to satisfy exercises made under the LTIP, GIS and other employee share schemes operated by BHP Billiton Limited from time to time.
66 - BHP BILLITON PLC CONCISE ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5604 BHPB Concise Sec 5-BC.
