7 DIRECTORS REPORT continued 7.7 Indemnities and insurance continued We also provide information about issues of relevance to employees through our intranet and email facilities and other In accordance with this requirement, BHP Billiton Limited and media, including newsletters suitable to the local environment.
BHP Billiton Plc have entered into Deeds of Indemnity, Access These are all important tools for gaining employee feedback and and Insurance Deeds of Indemnity with each of their respective increasing awareness of corporate and safety performance and Directors.
The Deeds of Indemnity are qualifying third party other critical industry and operational issues.
Other consultative indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 1985 methods are in place to address issues impacting employees, UK and the Companies Act 2006 UK.
and in addition, grievance or dispute resolution procedures We have a policy that we will, as a general rule, support and apply in all businesses.
hold harmless an employee who, while acting in good faith, All employees are invited to participate in Shareplus, the incurs personal liability to others as a result of working for us.
all-employee share purchase plan or, where local regulations In addition, where a person chairs a Customer Sector Group Risk limit its operation, cash equivalent schemes.
The scheme was and Audit Committee, and that person is not already indemnified introduced in April 2007.
By April 2008, 40 per cent of eligible as an officer or a Director, a policy is in place to indemnify that employees had elected to join.
Employee share schemes are chairperson in the same manner as our officers are indemnified.
Incentive and This policy has been approved by the Board.
bonus schemes also operate across the Group, which include From time to time, we engage our External Auditor, KPMG, targets relating to our overall financial and other performance.
to conduct non-statutory audit work and provide other services All employment decisions are based on merit and not on personal in accordance with our policy on the provision of other services attributes unrelated to job performance including disability.
The terms of engagement include an Should employees become disabled during employment, they indemnity in favour of KPMG: will be considered for roles within their capability and may also against all losses, claims, costs, expenses, actions, demands, be retrained.
For the purposes of training, career development damages, liabilities or any proceedings liabilities incurred and promotion, disabled employees will be treated in the by KPMG in respect of third party claims arising from same way as other employees and we will be as flexible a breach by the Group under the engagement terms: and as practicable in the working routine and workplace environment for all liabilities KPMG has to the Group or any third party to accommodate particular needs.
as a result of reliance on information provided by the Group All our employees can access our Annual Reports and other key that is false, misleading or incomplete.
publications via the intranet or hard copy.
The means by which We have insured against amounts that we may be liable to pay we communicate with shareholders is described in section 5.2 to Directors, Company Secretaries or certain employees pursuant of this Concise Report.
to Rule 146 of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and Article 146 of the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc or that we otherwise agree to pay by way of indemnity.
The insurance policy 7.9 Environmental performance also insures Directors, Company Secretaries and some employees Particulars in relation to environmental performance are referred against certain liabilities including legal costs they may incur to in section 7.21 of this Concise Report and in the Sustainability in carrying out their duties for us.
We have paid premiums for this Directors and Officers insurance of US$3,144,750 net during FY2008.
Some Directors, Secretaries 7.10 Dividends and employees contribute to the premium for this insurance.
A final dividend of 41.0 US cents per share will be paid on 25 September 2008.
Details of the dividends paid and the 7.8 Employee policies and involvement dividend policy are set out in the Group Highlights 2008, We are committed to open, honest and productive relationships Five-year Summary and the Shareholder Information with our employees based on the values of our Charter and sections of this Concise Report.
aligning the interests of employees with those of our shareholders.
Our approach to people is outlined in our Human Resources 7.11 Auditors Policy, our Code of Business Conduct and our Human Resources A resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as the auditor of Management Standards and Procedures.
Together, these BHP Billiton Plc will be proposed at the 2008 Annual General documents define our approach to involving and leading Meetings in accordance with section 385 of the Companies Act our employees, and the standards we expect, especially 1985 UK.
A copy of the declaration given by our External Auditors to It is important to us that we encourage and maintain effective the Directors in relation to the auditors compliance with the communication and consultation between employees and independence requirements of the Australian Corporations Act management.
The prime relationship and accountability for 2001 and the professional code of conduct for External Auditors this is through the relationship of the employee and their direct is set out on page 83 of this Concise Report.
Employees are also provided with regular briefings by senior management on important issues such as our strategy, No person who was an officer of BHP Billiton during FY2008 performance and health, safety and environmental matters.
was a director or partner of the Groups External Auditors at a time when the Groups External Auditors conducted an To facilitate global communications, we have a dedicated audit of the Group.
communications support team, which manages the release of information to employees across the world, through Each person who held the office of Director at the date the regular production and communication of operational Board resolved to approve this Directors Report makes the and global newsletters, bulletins and staff news releases.
following statements: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups External Auditors are unaware: and the Director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups External Auditors are aware of that information.
60 - BHP BILLITON PLC CONCISE ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5604 BHPB Concise Sec 5-BC.
