Concise Annual Report 2008 For several years now, Asian economies have been driven by a fundamental shift in the rate of industrialisation and urbanisation of their massive populations.
These economies have accounted for more global growth than has the United States.
This growth will drive the course of the world economy for years to come.
BHP Billiton produces and supplies world markets, including the developing Asian and other economies, with many of the natural resources they rely on to fuel their growth.
These resources include iron ore, copper, nickel, alumina, manganese, coal, uranium, oil and gas.
As the worlds leading natural resources company, we are central to the growth of the worlds developing economies.
We really are resourcing the future.
Board of Directors and Group Group Highlights 2008 2 Management Committee 26 Five-year Summary 2 5.
Corporate Governance Statement 31 Chairmans Review 4 Chief Executive Officers Report 6 6.
Directors Report 56 BHP Billiton Locations 8 8.
Legal proceedings 68 Customer Sector Group Performance 10 9.
Glossary 85 and prospects Resourcing the Future 16 11.
Shareholder Information 88 World-class Assets 18 Corporate Directory IBC Our People 20 Sharing Value 22 Growth 24 This Concise Annual Report is issued subject to the Important Notices appearing on the inside back cover of this Concise Annual Report.
BHP Billiton is a Dual Listed Company comprising BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
The two entities continue to exist as separate companies but operate as a combined group known as BHP Billiton.
The headquarters of BHP Billiton Limited and the global headquarters of the combined BHP Billiton Group are located in Melbourne, Australia.
BHP Billiton Plc is located in London, UK.
Both companies have identical Boards of Directors and are run by a unified management team.
Throughout this Concise Annual Report the Boards are referred to collectively as the Board.
Shareholders in each company have equivalent economic and voting rights in the BHP Billiton Group as a whole.
Throughout this Concise Annual Report the terms BHP Billiton, the Company and the Group refer to the combined group, including both BHP Billiton Limited and subsidiary companies and BHP Billiton Plc and subsidiary companies.
The term the merger has a corresponding meaning.
Registered office: 180 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, Victoria 3000, Australia BHP Billiton Plc.
Registered in England and Wales.
Registered office: Neathouse Place, London SW1V 1BH, UK
