2 INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY continued 2.2.
10 Energy Coal Customer Sector Group the government-owned electricity utility in South Africa, and exported the rest via the Richards Bay Coal Terminal, in which Our Energy Coal CSG is one of the worlds largest producers we own a 24 per cent share.
The reserve lives of the BECSA and marketers of export energy coal also known as thermal mines at current production rates range from 12 to 27 years.
or steaming coal and is also a significant domestic supplier to the electricity generation industry in Australia, South Africa In May 2008, we announced an agreement to sell our previously and the United States.
Our global portfolio of energy coal assets, wholly-owned Optimum colliery, together with 6.5 mtpa of our insights into the broader energy market through our sales Richards Bay Coal Terminal entitlement, to an entity controlled of other fuels such as gas, uranium and oil, and our control by a broad-based black economic empowerment consortium.
of options for bulk freight provide our business with key The sale was completed in June 2008, however the economic advantages as a supplier.
Like our other businesses, our Energy impact of the agreement was as if it were concluded on Coal CSG owns large, long-life assets with substantial options 1 July 2007.
In July 2007, we sold our previously wholly-owned for expansion.
Koornfontein mine to a broad-based black economic empowerment consortium.
We continue to market the We generally make our domestic sales under long-term export production from both mines.
fixed-price contracts with power stations that are located in close proximity to the mine.
We make export sales to power New Mexico Coal generators and some industrial users in Asia, Europe and the We own and operate the Navajo mine, located on Navajo land in United States, usually under contracts for delivery of a fixed New Mexico, and the nearby San Juan mine.
Each of these mines volume of coal.
Pricing is either index-linked, or fixed, in which transports its production directly to a nearby power station.
The case we use financial instruments to swap our fixed-price reserve lives of Navajo and San Juan at current production rates exposure for exposure to the index.
We are considering expansion We recognise that the need to control carbon dioxide emissions options at Navajo see Development projects below.
has substantial implications for the use of thermal coal as an energy source.
Our Company has committed to invest Hunter Valley Energy Coal US$300 million over the five years from June 2007 to support Our Hunter Valley operating asset is the Mt Arthur open-cut the research, development and demonstration of low-emissions coal mine, which produced approximately 11.8 million tonnes technologies, including clean coal and carbon sequestration in FY2008 and has a reserve life at current production rates technologies.
We have also developed the capacity to offer our of 14 years.
We also have a number of projects in feasibility export customers emissions credits in conjunction with their or pre-feasibility that, if completed, will form part of the coal purchases.
Hunter Valley Energy Coal portfolio, including an open-cut expansion of the existing operation and an underground We operate three sets of assets: a group of mines and associated expansion of Mt Arthur see Development projects below.
infrastructure collectively known as BHP Billiton Energy Coal We deliver approximately one-third of Mt Arthurs production South Africa BECSA our New Mexico Coal operations in the to local power stations and export the rest via the port United States: and our Hunter Valley Energy Coal operations of Newcastle.
in New South Wales, Australia.
We also own a one-third share of the Cerrejn Coal Company, which operates a coal mine Cerrejn Coal Company in Colombia.
Cerrejn Coal Company owns and operates the largest open-cut BHP Billiton Energy Coal South Africa export coal mine in the world in La Guajira province of Columbia, together with integrated rail and port facilities through which BECSA operates three coal mines in the Witbank region of the majority of production is exported.
In FY2008, Cerrejn Mpumalanga province of South Africa, which produced a completed an expansion that increased capacity to 32 mtpa total of approximately 45 million tonnes in FY2008.
At that rate of production, Cerrejn two major mine expansion projects underway in South Africa has a reserve life of 25 years.
In FY2008, BECSA sold approximately 64 per cent of its production to Eskom, Information on Energy Coal mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
The tables should be read in conjunction with the production and reserves tables.
Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source SOUTH AFRICA Khutala We own and operate the Khutala was commissioned in 1984.
Beneficiation facilities consist of a mine at Khutala.
crushing plant, for the energy coal with 100 kilometres east Open-cut operations began in 1996. a nominal capacity of 18 mtpa.
A separate of Johannesburg, BECSA is the holder of an The mining of a thermal metallurgical smaller crusher and wash plant with a Gauteng Province, Old Order Mining Right.
coal deposit for a domestic market nominal capacity of 0.6 mtpa is used to South Africa An application for conversion commenced in 2003. beneficiate the metallurgical coal supplied Combination of to a New Order Mining Right, from the opencast operation.
open-cut and submitted in 2004, is still being Power is supplied by Eskom under underground mines processed refer to section 2.8 long-term contracts.
The mine is accessible by public roads.
Domestic coal is transported via overland conveyor to the Kendal Power Station.
44 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
indb 44 9 9 12 08 9:54:35 AM 12 08 9:54:35 AM Information on Energy Coal mining operations continued Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source SOUTH AFRICA continued Douglas We own 84% of the Middelburg Middelburg mine was commissioned in Beneficiation facilities consist of the Middelburg mine in a joint venture.
Middelburg Mine Services MMS following: tips and crushing plants, two remaining 16% is owned by and Duvha Opencast became one export wash plants, a middlings wash 20 kilometres Xstrata Plc through Tavistock operation in FY1996.
The overall southeast Collieries Plc.
of Witbank, Mpumalanga We are the operator of the mine.
Power is supplied by Eskom under Province, long-term contracts.
BECSA and Tavistock Collieries South Africa are the holders of three Old Open-cut mine Order Mining Rights in respect of the Middelburg, Douglas and The mine is accessible Kleinkopje Sections in the joint by public roads.
BECSA is Export coal is the sole holder of an Old Order transported to RBCT Mining Right in respect of the by rail, while the Albion Section.
These Old Order domestic coal is Mining Rights must be lodged transported via for a conversion to New Order conveyor belt to Mining Rights by no later than the nearby Duvha 30 April 2009 refer to section Power Station.
On 29 February 2008, we announced approval of the Douglas-Middelburg Optimisation DMO Project, with an expected capital investment of US$975 million.
To facilitate the DMO project, which is to be developed and owned solely by BHP Billiton, the Douglas Tavistock Joint Venture DTJV will be restructured with each of the joint venture partners being allocated coal resources according to their ownership share.
A number of regulatory approvals are being sought to give effect to this restructure.
Optimum We owned and operated the Optimum was commissioned in 1970.
Beneficiation facilities include tips and mine at Optimum.
On 14 May crushing plants, an export washing plant 200 kilometres east 2008 we announced that we and a fide-stone plant.
The overall capacity of Johannesburg reached agreement to sell is 17 mtpa.
The fulfilment of Province, Power is supplied by Eskom under certain regulatory requirements South Africa long-term contracts.
including the conversion and Open-cut mine transfer of Optimums mining Access to the mine rights in terms of the Minerals is via public roads.
and Petroleum Resources Export coal is Development Act 2002 and the transported to RBCT approval of the South African by rail, while the Competition Commission has domestic coal is enabled the conclusion of the transported via sale, effective 30 June 2008. conveyor belt to the nearby Hendrina Power Station.
Klipspruit We own and operate the The project was approved by the Current beneficiation facilities consist mine at Klipspruit.
Mpumalanga Department of of a tip and crushing plant, as well 30 kilometres Agriculture, Conservation and as an export wash plant 32 kilometres west of Witbank, BECSA is the holder of an Environment in 2003.
An initial mini-pit from the mine.
The overall capacity Mpumalanga Old Order Mining Right.
was started in August 2003 as a truck is 4.8 mtpa.
Power is suppled by Province, An application for conversion and shovel contractor operation.
South Africa to a New Order Mining Right was submitted in 2004 Open-cut mine and is still being processed Access to the mine refer to section 2.8 is via public roads.
Export coal is transported to RBCT via Spoornet a government business enterprise railway.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 45 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
indb 45 9 9 12 08 9:54:35 AM 12 08 9:54:35 AM 2 INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY continued Information on Energy Coal mining operations continued Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source AUSTRALIA Mt Arthur Coal We own and operate the mine Coal production from the Mt Arthur Main beneficiation facilities include coal at Mt Arthur.
area commenced in 2002. handling, preparation and washing plants Approximately with a total capacity of 9.8 mtpa.
Washery 125 kilometres from We hold various mining leases by-pass coal is also sold.
Newcastle, New South that expire between October Wales, Australia 2010 and 2028.
Power is supplied by local energy providers, from the eastern Australia Open-cut mine power grid.
The mine is accessible by public road.
Domestic coal is transported by an overland conveyor to Bayswater Power Station.
Export coal is transported by a combination of private and public rail, approximately 125 kilometres to the port of Newcastle.
AMERICA BHP Navajo Coal We own and operate the mine.
The mine has been in operation The mine has the capacity to produce and Company since 1963, and the contracts process 7.7 mtpa.
Mined coal is sized and The mine is subject to a continue to 2016. blended to contract specifications using 30 kilometres south long-term lease from the stackers and reclaimers with no further west of Farmington, Navajo Nation.
New Mexico, US continues for as long as coal can be economically produced Power is supplied from FCPP.
Open-cut mine and sold in paying quantities.
Navajo mine is accessible by public roads located on the Navajo Nation Indian Reservation.
We transport all coal 25 kilometres from the production areas via our dedicated railroad to the Four Corners Power Plant FCPP.
San Juan La Plata We own and operate the mines.
The San Juan mine began operating The mine has the capacity to produce Mines in 1974 as a surface mine.
Mined coal is sized and We hold mining leases from 2000, we approved the development blended to contract specifications using 25 kilometres west federal and state governments.
of the San Juan underground mine to stockpiles with no further beneficiation.
of Farmington, The leases have five-year replace production from the existing New Mexico, US terms that are automatically The La Plata Mine is undergoing final San Juan and La Plata surface mines.
The San Juan mine extendable upon meeting closure, which is expected to be complete minimum production criteria.
by late 2008. is accessible by public roads.
Transport of coal to the San Juan Generating Station is by truck and conveyer belt.
46 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
indb 46 9 9 12 08 9:54:35 AM 12 08 9:54:35 AM Information on Energy Coal mining operations continued Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source COLOMBIA Cerrejn Coal We own 33.33% of the The original mine began as a joint Beneficiation facilities include a crushing Company Cerrejn Coal Company in a venture between Exxons Intercor plant with a capacity of 32 mtpa and joint venture.
The remaining and the Colombian Government a washing plant.
Maicao, La Guajira 66.67% interest is owned by entity Carbocol in 1976.
Over time, province, Colombia Electricity is supplied through the local Anglo American Plc 33.33% the partners have changed, nearby Open-cut mine Colombian power system.
operations have been merged and The export facility progressive expansion resulted in Mining leases expire in 2034. is 150 kilometres the current 32 mtpa operation.
northeast of the mine on the Caribbean coast at Puerto Bolivar and is connected to the mine by a single-track railway.
Access to the mine is via public roads and by charter aircraft to the mines airstrip.
Development projects Mt Arthur open-cut expansion Klipspruit We are undertaking a feasibility study into an open-cut expansion of the existing operation that is expected We are expanding the production capacity of BECSAs Klipspruit to increase export coal production by approximately 3.7 mtpa mine by approximately 3.2 mtpa to 8 mtpa.
The project also with first coal expected in the second half of calendar year 2010. involves the construction of a 16 mtpa coal processing plant on Klipspruit land as a 50-50 joint venture with Anglo Coal, which Mt Arthur underground is constructing the plant.
We expect to produce first coal in the We are undertaking a feasibility study into a new underground second half of calendar 2009, and estimate our share of the cost mine that will share much of the existing Mt Arthur mines of the project at US$450 million.
We expect the expanded mine infrastructure, including the coal preparation plant and rail to have a reserve life of approximately 20 years.
Douglas-Middelburg Optimisation Project Newcastle Third Export Coal Terminal This project involves works to optimise the development of We are a 35.5 per cent shareholder in a joint venture company existing reserves across the Douglas and Middelburg collieries, that is constructing a new 30 mtpa export coal loading facility the development of additional mining areas and the construction to supplement existing public facilities in the port of Newcastle.
of a new 14 mtpa coal processing plant, which will replace the Our share of the construction cost is estimated at US$390 less efficient existing plant at Douglas.
The work will enable million.
The first ship loading of coal is scheduled for late us to maintain energy coal exports from the combined Douglas calendar year 2010. and Middelburg colliery at around current levels approximately 10 mtpa while also fulfilling our domestic contractual commitments.
The expected capital investment is US$975 million and the new plant is scheduled to receive its first coal in mid-calendar 2010.
Navajo South We are undertaking a feasibility study on a project called the Desert Rock project, which would expand the Navajo mine to supply a proposed new power station to be built immediately adjacent to the mine with up to 5.7 mtpa.
The project schedule is tied to the approval process for the power station.
The proposed power plant was granted a final air permit by the United States Environmental Protection Agency on 31 July 2008.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 47 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
