5 Remuneration for GMC members The table that appears in this section has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 1985, and the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and relevant accounting standards.
Amounts shown reflect salary increases paid over the 12-month period ending 30 June 2008.
Base salary for Charles Goodyear reflects the period 1 July 2007 to his retirement date, 1 January 2008.
2 For Mr Goodyear, remuneration shown in this table is the total for FY2008.
His total remuneration for the proportion of the year before he stood down as a Director and a member of the GMC was US$946,337 for UK requirements which is comprised of base salary: US$444,375: annual cash award: US$466,594: and non-monetary benefits: US$35,368 and US$2,170,497 for Australian requirements which comprises the items included for UK requirements plus post-employment benefits: US$213,300: dividend equivalent payment value: US$124,720: value of Deferred Shares: US$412,187: and long-term incentive awards: US$473,953.
3 Non-monetary and others benefits for Mr Goodyear include a payment in respect of accrued leave and settlement of UK tax liabilities.
4 John Fast, Robert Kirkby, Chris Lynch and Miklos Salamon were members of the GMC in FY2007, but not in FY2008.
Explanation of terms d Value of Deferred Shares: The amounts shown represent the estimated fair value of Deferred Shares earned in the year.
a Dividend Equivalent Payment value: Participants who are The fair value of the Deferred Shares is estimated at grant awarded shares under the GIS and the LTIP are entitled to a date by discounting the total value of the shares that will be payment in lieu of dividends.
The Dividend Equivalent Payment issued in the future using the risk-free interest rate for the is equal to the amount that would have been earned over the term of the vesting period.
Deferred Shares are equity-settled holding or performance period based on the number of awards share-based payments.
The actual Deferred Shares will that vest, and will be made to the participant on exercise.
be awarded to participants following the Annual General The value is included in remuneration over the period prior Meetings in 2008.
Participants in the GIS can elect to receive to exercising of the underlying awards and is defined as Options instead of Deferred Shares or a combination of both.
In December 2007, all KMP who were eligible to participate b Other benefits including non-monetary benefits : received Deferred Shares.
Once awarded subsequent to Includes medical insurance, professional fees paid in respect meeting KPIs and approval at the Annual General Meetings, of tax compliance and consulting, payout of unused leave the only vesting condition is for participants to remain in entitlements, life assurance-related benefits, relocation employment for two further years.
Accordingly, the number allowance and expenses where applicable.
of shares if any that will ultimately vest cannot be determined until the service period has been completed.
The estimated c Retirement benefits: Charles Goodyear was entitled fair value of the Deferred Shares forms part of the at risk to receive retirement benefits equal to 48 per cent of his remuneration appearing throughout this Report.
He elected to defer receipt and participate in value of Deferred Shares is apportioned to annual remuneration the Groups Retirement Savings Plan.
From 1 October 2007, based on the expected future service period, which is normally Marius Kloppers was entitled to receive retirement benefits three years.
The vesting of Deferred Shares may be accelerated equal to 40 per cent of his base salary.
He elected to defer in the event of leaving or retirement from the Group, in which receipt of the majority of the benefit and participate in case the expected future service period is amended.
the Groups Retirement Savings Plan.
52 - BHP BILLITON PLC CONCISE ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5604 BHPB Concise Sec 5-BC.
