2 INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY continued 2.2.
4 Base Metals Customer Sector Group our use and re-use of available water, explore for alternative sources, and have built a desalination plant that currently Our Base Metals CSG is one of the worlds top producers of provides water only to the sulphide leach plant but which could copper, silver, lead and uranium, and a leading producer of be expanded, if necessary.
We believe that there is substantial zinc.
Our portfolio of large, low-cost mining operations includes scope for further expansion at Escondida see Development the Escondida mine in Chile, which is the worlds largest single projects below.
producer of copper, and Olympic Dam in South Australia, which is already a major producer of copper and uranium and has the Olympic Dam potential to be significantly expanded.
While it is already a significant producer of copper cathode In recent years, we have commissioned the Spence copper and uranium oxide, and a refiner of smaller amounts of gold mine and the Escondida Sulphide Leach projects, and restarted and silver bullion, we are currently exploring a series of staged operations at Pinto Valley as we have sought to maximise development options that would make our wholly-owned production during a period of high copper prices.
Our total Olympic Dam operation one of the worlds largest producers copper production in FY2008 was a record 1.3755 million tonnes, of copper, the largest producer of uranium, and a significant compared to 1.2501 million tonnes in FY2007, and a 58 per cent producer of gold see Development projects below.
In FY2008, increase over our production five years ago.
Olympic Dam produced 169,900 tonnes of copper cathode, 4,144 tonnes of uranium oxide, 80,517 ounces of gold and In addition to conventional mine development, we are also 780,000 ounces of silver.
pursuing advanced treatment technologies, such as the leaching of low-grade chalcopyrite ores, which we believe has the Antamina potential to recover copper from ores which were previously We own 33.75 per cent of Antamina, a large, low-cost, long-life uneconomic to treat.
Opened in 2001, its reserves will We market five primary products: support mining at current rates for a further 12 years.
Our share copper concentrates: of Antaminas FY2008 production was 111,700 tonnes of copper copper cathodes: in concentrate, and 83,521 tonnes of zinc in concentrate.
In addition to its primary copper and zinc concentrate products, uranium oxide: Antamina also produces smaller amounts of molybdenum lead concentrates: and and lead bismuth concentrate.
Spence We sell most of our copper, lead and zinc concentrates to smelters under long-term volume contracts with prices based We completed our wholly-owned greenfield Spence copper mine on the LME price for the contained metal three or four months development in Chile and began ramping up cathode production after shipment, less treatment charges and refining charges in December 2006.
During FY2008, we produced 142,700 tonnes collectively referred to as TCRCs that we negotiate with the of copper as we continue to ramp up to the nominal capacity smelters on an annual or bi-annual basis.
mine contain quantities of silver and gold, which remain in the Cerro Colorado base metal concentrates we sell.
We receive payment credits for the silver and gold recovered by our customers in the Our wholly-owned Cerro Colorado mine in Chile remains a smelting and refining process.
significant producer of copper cathode, although production levels have declined in recent years as grades have declined.
We sell most of our copper cathode production to rod and brass Production in FY2008 was 106,400 tonnes of copper cathode.
mills and casting plants around the world under annual contracts Production has been adversely affected by the high clay content with premiums to LME prices.
We sell uranium oxide to electricity of the ores currently being mined.
Our current mine plan sees generating utilities, principally in Western Europe, North America production continuing until 2016, although we are currently and North Asia.
Traditionally, uranium sales have been under evaluating the extent of hypogene mineralisation that may long-term fixed price contracts and the majority of our current support extension options.
production is committed under these contracts.
Sales commitments under long-term price contracts reduce over time and going Cannington forward we expect to see an increasing proportion of sales Our wholly-owned Cannington mine in northwest Queensland made with flexible pricing terms: for example, with a price has grown to become the worlds largest and, we believe, one linked to a spot index.
of the lowest cost producers of silver and lead.
During FY2006 We have seven production assets: and FY2007, we undertook an extensive program of decline and stope access rehabilitation to improve safety conditions, Escondida which has positioned the mine to maintain production, Our 57.5 per cent owned and operated Escondida mine is the offsetting natural grade decline over its remaining eight-year largest and one of the lowest-cost copper producers in the world.
In FY2008, Cannington produced concentrates In FY2008, our share of Escondidas production was 679,500 containing 251,548 tonnes of lead, 60,969 tonnes of zinc, tonnes of copper in concentrate and 131,600 tonnes of copper and approximately 35 million ounces of silver.
FY2008 saw the continued ramp-up of production from the sulphide leach plant, which was commissioned in July 2006.
Pinto Valley Current reserves will support mining for a further 24 years at In addition to these assets and in response to high copper current production rates.
We have been working to address prices as a result of strong demand, during FY2008 we resumed two potential limitations on future production at Escondida: sulphide mining, milling and concentrating operations at our power and water.
Together with our Cerro Colorado and previously idled Pinto Valley mine and began producing copper Spence operations, Escondida draws its power from the northern concentrate.
In addition, we continue to produce copper cathode Chilean grid.
Restrictions in the supply of gas from Argentina at the Pinto Valley site and the neighbouring Miami Unit from our have resulted in higher costs and power supply fluctuations.
ongoing Solvent Extraction Electrowinning SXEW operations.
To ensure security of supply and competitive power costs in the Current reserves will support mining for a further four years.
long term we are supporting the construction of an LNG facility to supply gas to the northern grid system, which is scheduled for completion in 2010, and have signed off-take agreements underwriting the construction of a 460 mw coal-fired power station, which is scheduled for completion in 2011.
To address limitations on the availability of water, we carefully manage 28 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
4 Base Metals Customer Sector Group continued Information on the Base Metals CSGs mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
This table should be read in conjunction with the production and reserve tables.
Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source COPPER Escondida The mine is owned and Original construction of the operation Escondida has two processing streams: two operated by Minera was completed in 1990.
The project concentrator plants in which high-quality Atacama Desert, Escondida Limitada.
has since undergone various expansion copper concentrate is extracted from at an altitude of projects at an additional cost of sulphide ore through a flotation extraction approximately We own 57.5% of Minera US$2,571 million 100% terms process: and two solvent extraction plants 3,100 metres and Escondida.
The other 42.5% plus US$451 million 100% terms in which leaching, solvent extraction 170 kilometres is owned by affiliates of for the construction of an oxide plant.
and electrowinning are used to produce southeast of Rio Tinto 30%, the JECO copper cathode.
Antofagasta, Chile Corporation 10%, a In June 2006, the Escondida Sulphide consortium represented Leach copper project achieved first Nominal production capacity is 3.2 mtpa Two open-cut pits by Mitsubishi Corporation production.
Excluding the exchange of copper concentrate and 330,000 tonnes The mine is accessible 7%, Mitsubishi Materials impact of a stronger Chilean peso, the per annum of copper cathode.
Corporation 1%, Nippon cost of the project was US$914 million Separate transmission circuits provide Copper cathode Mining and Metals 2% 100% terms, compared to a budget power for the Escondida mine facilities.
is transported by and the International of US$870 million.
The final cost was These transmission lines, which are privately-owned Finance Corporation 2.5%.
US$1,017 million including the impact connected to Chiles northern power rail line to the of foreign exchange.
Minera Escondida Limitada grid, are Company-owned.
Electricity Antofagasta port holds a mining concession from is purchased under contracts with local governmentthe Chilean state that remains generating companies.
operated or valid indefinitely subject Mejillones port to payment of annual fees.
Copper concentrate is transported by Company-owned pipeline to its Coloso port facilities.
Spence We own and operate the Spence received Board approval for Spence has operations facilities to support mine 100%.
The project the open-cut mining operations and ore Atacama Desert, was completed within the US$990 processing crushing operations.
We hold a mining concession 150 kilometres million budget excluding foreign from the Chilean state that The crushed oxide and sulphide ores are northeast of exchange impacts of a stronger Chilean remains valid indefinitely leached on separate dynamic on-off leach Antofagasta, Chile peso.
The cost including the impact of subject to payment of pads.
Chemical acid leaching is applied Open-cut mine foreign exchange was US$1.1 billion.
to oxide ores and bio-leaching is applied to The mine is accessible First ore was crushed in September 2006 supergene sulphide ores.
Solvent extraction by public road and with first copper produced in consists of four trains in a series-parallel privately-owned December 2006. configuration, with extraction stages for rail access.
both oxide and sulphide Pregnant Leach Copper cathode Solution.
A single electrowinning EW produced is plant produces the copper cathode.
transported by We have an additional run of mine ROM rail line to Mejillones heap leach to further recover copper port privately from low-grade ores.
operated and to Nominal capacity is 200,000 tonnes Antofagasta port on of copper cathode.
Electrical power is supplied to the operation via a 70 kilometre high-voltage transmission line connected to Chiles northern power grid.
This transmission line is Company-owned, and electricity is purchased under contracts from a local generating company.
Cerro Colorado We own and operate the mine.
Commercial production at Cerro Cerro Colorados facilities for this process Colorado commenced in June 1994. include two primary, secondary and tertiary Atacama Desert We hold a mining concession crushers, leaching pads and solvent at an altitude of from the Chilean state that Expansions took place in 1995 and 1998 extraction and electrowinning plants.
2,600 metres, remains valid indefinitely to increase the mines crushing capacity, 120 kilometres east subject to payment of leach pad area and mine fleet.
With Electricity is supplied under long-term of Iquique, Chile annual fees.
these expansions, production was contracts to the facilities through the increased to 100,000 tonnes per annum.
Open-cut copper mine Production was then increased to the The mine is accessible nameplate capacity of 120,000 tonnes by public road.
per annum with optimisation and Copper cathode efficiency improvements.
production is Due to lower copper grades of the ore trucked to the port the production is now approximately at Iquique, which is 105,000 tonnes per annum.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 29 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
indb 29 9 9 12 08 9:54:33 AM 12 08 9:54:33 AM 2 INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY continued Information on the Base Metals CSGs mining operations continued Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source COPPER continued Pinto Valley We own and operate 100% Pinto Valley was acquired through the Pinto Valley facilities include two SXEW of Pinto Valley and we hold acquisition of Magma Copper Company operations at the Pinto Valley and Miami Located in the title to the land.
The sulphide mining operations sites.
Concentrate production facilities USA approximately operations are contracted were discontinued in 1998.
During include a primary crusher, secondary 125 kilometres east to The Washington Group, closure, the operation continued to and tertiary crushers, six ball mills and of Phoenix, Arizona.
produce small amounts of copper copper concentrate and molybdenum The mine is accessible cathode through residual dump leaching flotation circuits.
Power is supplied to the site by the Cathode production A Feasibility Study on a re-start of Salt River Project.
is trucked to domestic the sulphide mining operations was customers in the conducted in 2006.
In January 2007, United States and the Re-Start Project was approved.
Concentrate production is trucked First concentrate production was to San Manuel, achieved in October 2007.
Arizona where it is loaded on rail and transported to the Port of Guaymas in Mexico.
COPPER URANIUM Olympic Dam We own and operate Production of copper began in 1988.
The underground mine extracts copper Olympic Dam.
Between 1989 and 1995, the production uranium ore and hauls the ore by an 560 kilometres rate was increased, ultimately raising automated train and trucking network northwest of The mining lease was the ore mining capacity to approximately feeding underground crushing, storage Adelaide, South granted by the Government 3 mtpa.
Australia, Australia of South Australia by an Act of Parliament for the period of During 1997 through 1999 a major The processing plant consists of two Underground mine 50 years from 1986, with a right expansion was conducted to raise grinding circuits in which high-quality The mine is accessible of extension for a further period throughput from 3 mtpa to 9 mtpa.
copper concentrate is extracted from by public road.
of 50 years in accordance with sulphide ore through a flotation extraction In 2002, Olympic Dam completed an Copper cathode and the Roxby Downs Indenture process.
The concentrate is fed into optimisation project.
A new copper electrowon copper is Ratification Act 1982. an Outokumpu flash furnace having a solvent extraction plant was transported by public nominal concentrate smelting capacity commissioned in the first quarter road to public ports.
of 450 ktpa to produce copper anodes, of 2004.
Uranium oxide is then into an ISA electro-refinery to produce transported by public We acquired Olympic Dam as part copper cathodes and slimes treated to road and rail to of our acquisition of WMC in 2005. recover gold and silver.
tailings are further processed to produce electrowon cathode and high grade uranium oxide concentrates.
Power for the Olympic Dam operations is supplied via a 275 kV powerline from Port Augusta, transmitted by ElectraNet.
COPPER ZINC Antamina Antamina is owned by The Antamina project achieved The principal project facilities include a Compaa Minera Antamina SA, commercial production in primary crusher, a nominal 70,000 tonnes 270 kilometres north in which we hold a 33.75% October 2001. per day concentrator, copper and zinc of Lima at an altitude interest.
The remaining flotation circuits and a bismuth moly of 4,300 metres, Peru interests are held by Xstrata cleaning circuit, a 300 kilometre Open-cut mine 33.75%, Teck Cominco concentrate pipeline with single-stage The mine is accessible 22.5% and Mitsubishi 10%.
pumping, and port facilities at Huarmey.
by a CompanyThe pipeline design throughput is Antamina is the operator of maintained 115 2.3 dry mtpa.
Power to the mine site is being supplied Antamina holds mining rights A 300 kilometre under long-term contracts with individual from the Peruvian state over pipeline transports power producers through a 58 kilometre its mine and operations.
These the copper and zinc 220 kV transmission line, which is rights can be held indefinitely, concentrates to the connected to Perus national energy grid.
contingent upon the annual port of Huarmey.
payment of licence fees and The molybdenum the supply of information on and lead bismuth investment and production.
concentrates are transported by truck to different locations for shipment.
30 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
indb 30 9 9 12 08 9:54:33 AM 12 08 9:54:33 AM Information on the Base Metals CSGs mining operations continued Name, location, type Ownership, operation of mine and access and title lease History Facilities and power source SILVER, LEAD AND ZINC Cannington We own and operate The deposit was discovered in 1990.
The beneficiation plant consists of Cannington.
Concentrate production commenced a primary grinding circuit AG mill, 300 kilometres in 1997. secondary grinding circuit tower mill, southeast of Mt Isa, The Cannington deposit pre-flotation circuit, fine lead flotation Queensland, Australia is contained within mining In February 2003, the Cannington circuit, coarse lead flotation circuit, zinc leases granted by the State Growth Project commenced to Underground mine flotation circuit, concentrate and tailings of Queensland in 1994 and improve mill throughput and metal The mine is accessible thickening, lead and zinc concentrate which expire in 2029. recovery.
The project was completed by public road and leaching circuits, lead and zinc concentrate during FY2005.
a Company-owned filtration circuit and a paste plant.
Product is transported A power station, consisting of a 187 kilometres by combination of gas-fired and diesel-fired road to Yurbi, a engines, located at Cannington, is operated Company-owned under contract to supply power solely loading facility, where to Cannington.
it is loaded on public rail and transported to a public port at which we lease a berth.
Development projects Olympic Dam The pre-feasibility study into expansion options at Olympic Dam is currently being undertaken and is addressing production capacities, mining methods, processing including smelting options and supporting infrastructure requirements.
The expansion is likely to convert Olympic Dam from an underground to an open-cut mine.
Our conceptual studies have indicated the potential for production capacity by the end of the last stage of development and approximately 730,000 tpa of copper, 19,000 tpa of uranium oxide and 800,000 ounces per year of gold.
Olympic Dam is a relatively complex orebody, so there remains uncertainty about the size, cost, timing and eventual configuration of the expansion project.
The project is still in pre-feasibility and development options are still being evaluated, and ultimately, the expansion project will depend upon Board approval of the final investment case and a range of regulatory and governmental approvals and agreements.
Escondida Escondida is currently undertaking a pre-feasibility study into building a third concentrator plant.
It has also been undertaking extensive exploration of the Escondida lease, and early drilling results suggest that there is extensive additional mineralisation in close proximity to existing infrastructure and processing facilities, including a new prospect known as Pampa Escondida.
Further study will be required before we establish whether it can be economically extracted.
Escondida is planning to invest an estimated US$327 million US$188 million our share in drilling, assaying and metallurgical test work across the mining lease over the next five years.
Resolution Copper We hold a 45 per cent interest in the Resolution Copper project in Arizona, which is operated by our partner, Rio Tinto, which owns the other 55 per cent.
Resolution Copper is currently undertaking a pre-feasibility study into a substantial underground copper mine and processing facility.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 31 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
