NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 26.
Financial risk management continued Capital management The Group defines capital as the total equity of the Group.
The Group manages capital with the goal of maintaining levels of gearing designed to optimise the cost of capital and return on capital employed, whilst also growing the business consistently through project developments and acquisitions.
The Groups capital management program has three priorities: Reinvestment in projects that carry attractive rates of return regardless of the economic climate.
Commitment to a solid A credit rating with a target net gearing of between 35 per cent and 40 per cent.
Returning excess capital to shareholders via dividend growth and share buy-backs.
The Groups strategy is focused on upstream, large, long-life, low-cost, expandable, export-orientated assets and the Group continually reviews its portfolio to identify assets which do not fit this strategy.
The Group will purchase interests in assets where they fit our strategy.
The Groups credit ratings are currently A1 P-1 and A A-1 with Moodys and Standard & Poors respectively.
There has been no change to these ratings during the year, however the ratings were placed on negative outlook following the announcement of proposed offers for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Details of share buy-backs can be found in note 21.
On 14 December 2007 the buy-back program was suspended following the Groups decision to make formal offers to acquire Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, being the ratio of net debt to net debt plus net assets.
Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities at balance date, not otherwise provided for in the financial report, are categorised as arising from: 2008 2007 US$M US$M Jointly controlled entities b Bank guarantees 1 a Other 535 416 535 417 Subsidiaries and jointly controlled assets including guarantees b Bank guarantees 1 1 b Performance guarantees 25 a Other 327 296 328 322 Total contingent liabilities 863 739 a Other contingent liabilities relate predominantly to actual or potential litigation of the Group for which amounts are reasonably estimable but the liability is not probable and therefore the Group has not provided for such amounts in these financial statements.
The amounts relate to a number of actions against the Group, none of which are individually significant.
Additionally, there are a number of legal claims or potential claims against the Group, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at present, and for which no amounts have been included in the table above.
b The Group has entered into various counter-indemnities of bank and performance guarantees related to its own future performance in the normal course of business.
216 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
