2 Directors 7.3 Results, financial instruments The tables contained in section 7.19 of this Directors Report set and going concern ut the relevant interests in shares in BHP Billiton Limited and o Information about our financial position is included in the financial BHP Billiton Plc of the Directors who held office at 30 June 2008, statements in this Concise Report.
The income statement set out at the beginning and end of FY2008, and in relation to all in this Concise Report shows profit attributable to BHP Billiton Directors in office as at the date of this Directors Report, members of US$15,390 million compared to US$13,416 million their relevant interests in shares in BHP Billiton Limited and in 2007.
BHP Billiton Plc as at the date of this Report.
No rights or options over shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are held by Details of our financial risk management objectives and policies any of the non-executive Directors.
Interests held by executive are set out in section 5.6 of this Concise Report and note 26 Directors under share and option plans are set out in the tables Financial risk management in the financial statements in the showing interests in incentive plans contained in section 6.5 BHP Billiton Annual Report, each of which is incorporated into, of this Concise Report.
Further details of all options and rights and forms part of, this Directors Report.
held as at the date of this Directors Report including those The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, consider issued during or since the end of FY2008, and of shares issued that the Group has adequate resources to continue in the during or since the end of FY2008 upon exercise of options operational business for the foreseeable future and have and rights, are set out in note 29 Key Management Personnel therefore continued to adopt the going-concern basis in the financial statements in the BHP Billiton Annual Report.
in preparing the financial statements.
Except as disclosed in these tables, there have been no other changes in the Directors interests over shares or options in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc between 30 June 2008 7.4 Directors and the date of this Directors Report.
The Directors who served at any time during or since the end We have not made available to any Director any interest in of the financial year were Mr Don Argus, Mr Marius Kloppers, a registered scheme.
Mr Charles Goodyear, Mr Paul Anderson, Mr Alan Boeckmann, The former Directors of BHP Limited participated in a retirement Dr David Brink, Dr John Buchanan, Mr Carlos Cordeiro, plan under which they were entitled to receive a payment on Mr David Crawford, Hon E Gail fide Planque, Dr David Jenkins, retirement calculated by reference to years of service.
This plan Dr David Morgan, Mr Jacques Nasser, Mr Keith Rumble was closed on 24 October 2003, and benefits accrued to that date and Dr John Schubert.
Further details of the Directors are held by BHP Billiton Limited and will be paid on retirement.
of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are set out Further information about this plan and its closure are set out in section 4.1 of this Concise Report.
These details include in section 6.6.
the period for which each Director held office up to the date of this Directors Report, their qualifications, experience 7.5.
3 GMC members and particular responsibilities, the directorships held in other The table contained in section 7.20 of this Directors Report listed companies since 1 July 2005, and the period for which s ets out the relevant interests held by members of the GMC each directorship has been held.
other than Directors in shares of BHP Billiton Limited and Mr Charles Goodyear retired as a Director and as CEO BHP Billiton Plc at the beginning and end of FY2008, and at of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from the date of this Directors Report.
Interests held by members 30 September 2007, having been a Director since November 2001 of the GMC under share and option plans are set out in the tables and CEO from January 2003.
Mr Marius Kloppers took over as CEO showing interests in incentive plans contained in section 6.5 of from Mr Charles Goodyear on 1 October 2007. this Concise Report.
Further details of all options and rights held as at the date of this Directors Report including those issued Dr David Brink retired as a Director of BHP Billiton Limited during or since the end of FY2008, and of shares issued during and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 28 November 2007, having or since the end of FY2008 upon exercise of options and rights, been a Director of BHP Billiton Plc since June 1997 and a Director are set out in note 29 Key Management Personnel in the of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001. financial statements in the BHP Billiton Annual Report.
Dr David Morgan was appointed as a Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 1 January 2008.
7.6 Secretaries Mr Alan Boeckmann and Mr Keith Rumble were each appointed as a Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc with Ms Jane McAloon is the Group Company Secretary.
Details of effect from 1 September 2008. her qualifications and experience are set out in section 4.1 of this Concise Report.
The following people also act as the Company The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees held Secretaries of either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc: during the year and each Directors attendance at those meetings Ms Fiona Smith, BSc LLB, FCIS, Deputy Company Secretary are set out in sections 5.3.
BHP Billiton Limited and Ms Elizabeth Hobley, BA Hons, ACIS, Deputy Company Secretary BHP Billiton Plc.
Each such individual 7.5 Remuneration and share interests has experience in a company secretariat role arising from time spent in such roles within BHP Billiton or other large 7.5.
The policy for determining the nature and amount of emoluments of members of the Group Management Committee GMC 7.7 Indemnities and insurance including the executive Directors and the non-executive Directors and information about the relationship between that Rule 146 of the BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and Article 146 policy and our performance are set out in sections 6.3, 6.5 and of the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association require each 6.6 of this Concise Report.
Company to indemnify to the extent permitted by law, each Director, Secretary or executive officer of BHP Billiton Limited The remuneration tables contained in sections 6.5 and 6.6 of this and BHP Billiton Plc respectively against liability incurred in, Concise Report set out the remuneration of members of the GMC or arising out of, the conduct of the business of the Company including the executive Directors and the non-executive Directors.
or the discharge of the duties of the Director, Secretary or executive officer.
The Directors named in section 4.1 of this Concise Report, the executive officers and the Company Secretaries of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have the benefit of this requirement, as do individuals who formerly held one of those positions.
BHP BILLITON PLC CONCISE ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 59 5604 BHPB Concise Sec 5-BC.
