5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued our Nomination Committee Charter does not include the 5.10 Conformance with purpose of developing and recommending to the Board corporate governance standards a set of corporate governance principles applicable to Our compliance with the governance standards in each of the corporation.
We believe that this task is integral to the the jurisdictions in which we operate is summarised in this governance of the Group and is therefore best dealt with Statement, the Remuneration Report, the Directors Report by the Board as a whole.
Rule 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require UK-listed NYSE-listed companies to ensure that their audit committees companies to report on the extent to which they comply with are directly responsible for the appointment, compensation, the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice, retention and oversight of the work of the external auditor which are contained in Section 1 of the Combined Code, unless the companys governing law or documents or and explain the reasons for any non-compliance.
other home country legal requirements require or permit shareholders to ultimately vote on or approve these matters.
The Listing Rules of the ASX require Australian-listed companies While the RAC is directly responsible for remuneration and to report on the extent to which they meet the Principles and oversight of the External Auditor, the ultimate responsibility Recommendations published by the ASX Corporate Governance for appointment and retention of External Auditors rests Council as part of its Principles of Good Corporate Governance with our shareholders, in accordance with UK law and our ASX Principles and Recommendations and explain the reasons constitutional documents.
The RAC does, however, make for any non-compliance.
recommendations to the Board on these matters, which Both the Combined Code and the ASX Principles and are in turn reported to shareholders.
Recommendations require the Board to consider the application While the Board is satisfied with its level of compliance with of the relevant corporate governance principles, while recognising the governance requirements in Australia, the UK and the US, that departures from those principles are appropriate in some it recognises that practices and procedures can always be circumstances.
We have complied with the provisions set out improved, and there is merit in continuously reviewing its own in Section 1 of the Combined Code and with the ASX Principles standards against those in a variety of jurisdictions.
The Boards and Recommendations throughout the financial period and program of review will continue throughout the year ahead.
have continued to comply up to the date of this Annual Report.
A checklist summarising our compliance with the UK Combined Code and the ASX Principles and Recommendations has been posted to the website at www.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are registrants with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the US.
Both companies are classified as foreign private issuers and both have American Depositary Receipts listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
We have reviewed the governance requirements currently applicable to foreign private issuers under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act US including the rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the rules of the NYSE and are satisfied that we comply with those requirements.
Section 303A of the NYSE Listed Company Manual has instituted a broad regime of corporate governance requirements for NYSE-listed companies.
Under the NYSE rules foreign private issuers, such as ourselves, are permitted to follow home country practice in lieu of the requirements of Section 303A, except for the rule relating to compliance with Rule 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 10A-3 and certain notification provisions contained in Section 303A of the Listed Company Manual.
11 of the Listed Company Manual, however, requires us to disclose any significant ways in which our corporate governance practices differ from those followed by US-listed companies under the NYSE corporate governance standards.
Following a comparison of our corporate governance practices with the requirements of Section 303A of the NYSE Listed Company Manual that would otherwise currently apply to foreign private issuers, the following differences were identified: 136 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
