2 INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY continued As outlined in section 1.5 of this Report, on 1 May 2004 2.8 Government regulations the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act 2002 Government regulations touch all aspects of our operations.
MPRDA took effect, providing for state custodianship of all However, because of the geographical diversity of our mineral deposits and abolishing the prior system of privately held operations, no one set of government regulations is likely mineral rights.
It is administered by the Department of Minerals to have a material effect on our business, taken as a whole.
and Energy of South Africa.
In February 2007, the codes of good practice were gazetted, further crystallising governments The ability to extract minerals, oil and natural gas is BEE strategy into a single binding document.
The codes make fundamental to our business.
In most jurisdictions, the rights provision for businesses to measure their success in contributing to undeveloped mineral or petroleum deposits are owned by to the economic transformation and empowerment of historically the state.
Accordingly, we rely upon the rights granted to us disadvantaged South Africans HDSAs in the local economy by the government that owns the mineral, oil or natural gas.
and a scorecard comprising seven metrics was also developed These rights usually take the form of a lease or licence, which to assist businesses in achieving this success.
gives us the right to access the land and extract the product.
The terms of the lease or licence, including the time period In terms of the MPRDA, holders of mining rights granted under for which it is effective, are specific to the laws of the relevant the previous system, known as Old Order Rights, must apply to government.
Generally, we own the product we extract and convert their rights to New Order Rights prior to 30 April 2009. royalties or similar taxes are payable to the government.
In order for the conversions to be effected, applicants are required Some of our operations, such as our oil and gas operations to comply with the terms of the Black Economic Empowerment Act in Trinidad and Tobago and Algeria, are subject to production of 2003 and the Mining Charter, which has been published under sharing contracts under which both we as the contractor the MPRDA.
The Mining Charter requires holders of mining rights and the government are entitled to a share of the production.
to achieve 26 per cent ownership participation by historically Under such production sharing contracts, the contractor disadvantaged South Africans in their mining operations by is entitled to recover its exploration and production costs 30 April 2014, of which 15 per cent needs to be achieved from the governments share of production.
Related to the ability to extract is the ability to process the BHP Billiton supports broad-based black economic empowerment minerals, oil or natural gas.
Again, we rely upon the relevant in South Africa.
We believe it is imperative to both the growth government to grant the rights necessary to transport and and stability of the South African economy and the Companys treat the extracted material in order to ready it for sale.
strategic objectives and long-term sustainability in that country.
Underlying our business of extracting and processing The principles of transformation and empowerment are in line natural resources is the ability to explore for those orebodies.
with the BHP Billiton Charter, which underscores the organisations The rights to explore for minerals, oil and natural gas are granted Courage to Lead Change.
to us by the government that owns those natural resources We have established a transformation and empowerment that we wish to explore.
Usually, the right to explore carries technical committee comprising senior managers with diverse with it the obligation to spend a defined amount of money on skills to ensure our transformation and empowerment agenda the exploration or to undertake particular exploration activities.
Governments also impose obligations on us in respect of environmental protection, land rehabilitation, occupational 2.8.
2 Uranium production in Australia health and safety, and native land title with which we must To mine, process, transport and sell uranium from within comply in order to continue to enjoy the right to conduct Australia, we are required to hold possession and export our operations within that jurisdiction.
These obligations permissions, which are also subject to regulation by often require us to make substantial expenditures to minimise the Australian Government or bodies that report to the or remediate the environmental impact of our operations, Australian Government.
to ensure the safety of our employees and contractors and the like.
For further information on these types of obligations, To possess nuclear material, such as uranium, in Australia, refer to section 2.9 and 2.10 of this Report.
a Permit to Possess Nuclear Materials Possession Permit must be held pursuant to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Safeguards Of particular note are the following regulatory regimes: Act 1987 Cth Non-Proliferation Act.
1 South African Mining Charter and is issued by the Australian Safeguards and Non-Proliferation Black Economic Empowerment Office, an office established under the Non-Proliferation Act, which administers Australias domestic nuclear safeguards In 2003 the government released a strategy for broad-based black requirements and reports to the Australian Government.
economic empowerment BBBEE that defined empowerment as an integrated and coherent socio-economic process that directly To export uranium from Australia, a Permit to Export Natural contributes to the economic transformation of South Africa Uranium Export Permit must be held pursuant to the Customs and brings significant increases in the numbers of black people Prohibited Exports Regulations 1958 Cth.
The Export Permit who manage, own and control the countrys economy, as well is issued by the Minister for Industry, Tourism and Resources.
as significant decreases in income inequalities.
This strategy laid A special transport permit will be required under the Nonthe foundation for the Black Economic Empowerment Act of 2003, Proliferation Act by a party that transports nuclear material which granted government the power to legislate how it wanted from one specified location to another specified location.
black economic empowerment BEE to be implemented in As we engage service providers to transport uranium, those South Africa.
service providers are required to hold a special transport permit.
54 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
