7.22.1 Organisational and share capital structure continued Class Rights Actions Additional documents which effect the DLC, include: In the case of certain actions in relation to which the two bodies of shareholders may have divergent interests referred to as Class BHP Billiton Limited Constitution Rights Actions, the Company wishing to carry out the Class Rights BHP Billiton Plc Memorandum and Articles of Association Action requires the prior approval of the shareholders in the other BHP Billiton Special Voting Shares Deed Company voting separately and, where appropriate, the approval BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee of its own shareholders voting separately.
Depending on the type BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee.
of Class Rights Action undertaken, the approval required is either an ordinary or special resolution of the relevant Company.
Australian Foreign Investment Review Board FIRB conditions These voting arrangements are secured through the The Treasurer of Australia approved the DLC merger subject constitutional documents of the two Companies, the BHP Billiton to certain conditions, the effect of which was to require that, Sharing Agreement, the Special Voting Shares Deed and rights among other things, BHP Billiton Limited continues to: attaching to a specially created Special Voting Share issued be an Australian company, which is managed from Australia: by each Company and held in each case by a Special Voting and Company.
The shares in the Special Voting Companies are held ultimately manage and control the companies conducting the legally and beneficially by Law Debenture Trust Corporation Plc.
business that was conducted by it at the time of the merger, for as long as those businesses form part of the BHP Billiton Group.
Cross guarantees BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have each executed a The conditions have effect indefinitely, subject to amendment Deed Poll Guarantee, pursuant to which creditors entitled to the of the Australian Foreign Acquisitions Takeover Act 1975 or benefit of the BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee and the any revocation or amendment by the Treasurer of Australia.
BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee will, to the extent possible, If BHP Billiton Limited no longer wishes to comply with these be placed in the same position as if the relevant debts were owed conditions, it must obtain the prior approval of the Treasurer.
by both BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc combined.
Failure to comply with the conditions attracts substantial penalties under the Act.
Restrictions on takeovers of one Company only Equalisation of economic and voting rights The BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association have been drafted to ensure that, except BHP Billiton Limited shareholders and BHP Billiton Plc shareholders have economic and voting interests in the combined BHP Billiton with the consent of the Board, a person cannot gain control of one Company without having made an equivalent offer to the Group.
The economic and voting interests represented by a share in one Company relative to the economic and voting interests of shareholders of both Companies on equivalent terms.
Sanctions for breach of these provisions would include withholding of a share in the other Company is determined by reference to a ratio known as the Equalisation Ratio.
Presently, the economic and dividends, voting restrictions and the compulsory divestment of shares to the extent a shareholder and its associates exceed voting interests attached to each BHP Billiton Limited share and each BHP Billiton Plc share are the same, since the Equalisation the relevant threshold.
The Equalisation Ratio would change if either 7.22.2 Constitution BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc returned value to only its shareholders and no matching action was taken.
The following text summarises the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association This means that the amount of any cash dividend paid by of BHP Billiton Plc.
The effect of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited in respect of each BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association of share is normally matched by an equivalent cash dividend by BHP Billiton Plc is, so far as possible, identical.
Where BHP Billiton Plc in respect of each BHP Billiton Plc share, and the term BHP Billiton is used in this description of the vice versa.
If one Company has insufficient profits or is otherwise Constitution and Articles of Association, it can be read unable to pay the agreed dividend, BHP Billiton Limited and to mean either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc.
BHP Billiton Plc will, as far as practicable, enter into such transactions as are necessary so as to enable both Companies The Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc can only be amended where to pay the amount of pre-tax dividends per share.
such amendment is approved by special resolution either: Joint Electorate Actions by approval as a Class Rights Action, where the amendment Under the terms of the DLC agreements, the BHP Billiton Limited results in a change to an Entrenched Provision: or Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association otherwise, as a Joint Electorate Action.
special voting arrangements have been implemented so that A description of Joint Electorate Actions and Class Rights Actions the shareholders of both Companies vote together as a single is contained under the heading Equalisation of economic and decision-making body on matters affecting the shareholders voting rights above.
of each Company in similar ways such matters are referred to as Joint Electorate Actions.
For so long as the Equalisation Directors Ratio remains 1:1, each BHP Billiton Limited share will effectively The management and control of the business and affairs of have the same voting rights as each BHP Billiton Plc share BHP Billiton are vested in the Board of Directors which may on Joint Electorate Actions.
exercise all powers and do everything that is within the power A Joint Electorate Action requires approval by ordinary of BHP Billiton, other than what is required to be exercised resolution or special resolution if required by statute, regulation, or done by BHP Billiton in a general meeting.
applicable listing rules or other applicable requirements of Information regarding the review of the Directors and BHP Billiton Limited, with both the BHP Billiton Limited ordinary their re-election and renewal is set out in section 5.4 of this shareholders and the holder of the BHP Billiton Limited Special Concise Report, which is incorporated into, and forms part of, Voting Share voting as a single class and also of BHP Billiton Plc, this Directors Report.
with the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shareholders and the holder of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share voting as a single class.
BHP BILLITON PLC CONCISE ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 63 5604 BHPB Concise Sec 5-BC.
indd 63 11 9 08 10:34:10 PM 11 9 08 10:34:10 PM 7 DIRECTORS REPORT continued 7.22.2 Constitution continued Loans by Directors Any Director may lend money to BHP Billiton at interest with or Power to issue securities without security or may, for a commission or profit, guarantee BHP Billiton may, pursuant to the Constitution and Articles of the repayment of any money borrowed by BHP Billiton and Association, issue any shares or other securities with preferred, underwrite or guarantee the subscription of shares or securities deferred or other special rights, obligations or restrictions as of BHP Billiton or of any corporation in which BHP Billiton may and when the Directors may determine and on any other terms be interested without being disqualified as a director and the Directors consider appropriate, provided that any such issue: without being liable to account for BHP Billiton for any does not affect any special rights conferred on the holders commission or profit.
of any shares: and Retirement of Directors is subject to the provisions regarding shareholder approval in the Constitution and Articles of Association.
At every annual general meeting one-third of the Directors or, if their number is not a multiple of three, then the number The rights attaching to a class other than ordinary shares nearest to but not less than one-third, must retire from office.
are expressed at the date of issue.
The Directors to retire are those longest in office since last being elected.
As between Directors who were elected on the same Restrictions on voting by Directors day, the Directors to retire are determined by lot in default of A Director may not vote in respect of any contract or arrangement agreement between them.
Further, a Director must retire from or any other proposal in which he or she has a material personal office at the conclusion of the third Annual General Meeting interest.
A Director shall not be counted in the quorum at a after which the Director was elected or re-elected.
A retiring meeting in relation to any resolution on which he or she is director is eligible for re-election.
The Board continues to have a policy that requires a non-executive Subject to applicable laws, a Director is entitled to vote, and be Director who has served on the Board for nine years from the date counted in the quorum, in respect of any resolution concerning of their first election to stand for annual re-election from the first any of the following matters, namely where the material Annual General Meeting after the expiration of their current term.
personal interest: We are seeking shareholder approval at our 2008 Annual arises because the Director is a shareholder of BHP Billiton and General Meetings to amend the Constitution of BHP Billiton is held in common with the other shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of BHP Billiton Plc so that the cut-off arises in relation to the Directors remuneration as a Director date for Director-nominations is measured from the earlier of BHP Billiton of the BHP Billiton Limited and the BHP Billiton Plc general r elates to a contract BHP Billiton is proposing to enter into meetings which is appropriate given the Dual Listed Company that is subject to approval by the shareholders and will not structure.
Currently, the wording of the Constitution means impose any obligation on BHP Billiton if it is not approved that BHP Billiton Limited uses the nominations cut-off period by the shareholders contained in the ASX Listing Rules i. e. 35 business days before arises merely because the Director is a guarantor or has given the date of the BHP Billiton Limited meeting which typically an indemnity or security for all or part of a loan, or proposed falls after the deadline for nominations as a Director of loan, to BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Plc.
BHP Billiton Limited has in the past needed arises merely because the Director has a right of subrogation to seek ASX regulatory relief to avoid a situation in which in relation to a guarantee or indemnity referred to above a candidate could be eligible for election as a Director of relates to a contract that insures, or would insure, the BHP Billiton Limited but not as a Director of BHP Billiton Plc.
Director against liabilities the Director incurs as an officer If the proposed amendments are adopted, the cut-off date of BHP Billiton, but only if the contract does not make for both BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc will be BHP Billiton or a related body corporate the insurer 40 business days before the earlier of the BHP Billiton Limited relates to any payment by BHP Billiton or a related body and BHP Billiton Plc general meetings.
Further details are set out corporate in respect of an indemnity permitted by law, in the Notices of Meeting for the 2008 Annual General Meetings.
or any contract relating to such an indemnity: or Rights attaching to shares is in a contract, or proposed contract with, or for the benefit Dividend rights of, or on behalf of, a related body corporate and arises merely because the director is a director of a related body corporate.
By law, dividends on shares may only be paid out of profits available for distribution.
The Constitution and Articles We are, however, seeking shareholder approval at our 2008 of Association provide that payment of any dividend may Annual General Meetings to amend the Articles of BHP Billiton Plc be made in any manner, by any means and in any currency to take account of changes to Directors interests rules introduced determined by the Board.
by the new Companies Act 2006 UK.
From 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 will impose a duty on a director of a All unclaimed dividends may be invested or otherwise used by company to which the Companies Act applies to avoid a situation the Board for the benefit of whichever of BHP Billiton Limited in which he or she has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest or BHP Billiton Plc declared that dividend, until claimed or, in the that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of case of BHP Billiton Limited, otherwise disposed of according to the company.
This duty is not infringed if either the situation law.
In the case of BHP Billiton Plc, any dividend unclaimed after cannot reasonably be regarded as likely to give rise to a a period of 12 years from the date on which such dividend was conflict of interest or if the matter has been authorised by the declared or became due for payment shall be forfeited and shall Directors.
The Companies Act 2006 UK allows directors of revert to BHP Billiton Plc.
public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where the companys articles contain such an enabling provision.
The proposed amendment to the Articles of BHP Billiton Plc gives the Directors authority to approve such situations and the ability to make regulations governing the way in which required disclosures and any following authorisation will be made to and by the Directors, giving greater flexibility and ensuring that the highest standard of corporate governance best practice may be adhered to.
Further details are set out in the Notices of Meeting for the 2008 Annual General Meetings.
64 - BHP BILLITON PLC CONCISE ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5604 BHPB Concise Sec 5-BC.
indd 64 11 9 08 10:34:10 PM 11 9 08 10:34:10 PM 7.22.2 Constitution continued Rights to share in BHP Billiton Plcs profits Voting rights The rights attached to the shares of BHP Billiton Plc, in relation to the participation in the profits available for distribution, Voting at any general meeting of BHP Billiton Limited shareholders are as follows: is in the first instance to be conducted by a show of hands unless The holders of the cumulative preference shares shall be a poll is demanded by any of the following except in relation to entitled, in priority to any payment of dividend to the holders the election of a chairman of a meeting or, unless the Chairman of any other class of shares, to be paid a fixed cumulative otherwise determines, the adjournment of a meeting : preferential dividend Preferential Dividend at a rate of the Chairman 5.5 per cent per annum, to be paid annually in arrears on any shareholder under the law: or 31 July in each year or, if any such date shall be a Saturday, the holder of the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share.
Sunday or public holiday in England, on the first business day following such date in each year.
Payments of Preferential Voting at any general meeting of BHP Billiton Plc is in the Dividends shall be made to holders on the register at any date first instance to be conducted by a show of hands unless selected by the Directors up to 42 days prior to the relevant a poll is demanded by any of the following: fixed dividend date.
the Chairman Subject to the rights attaching to the cumulative preference not less than five members present in person or by proxy shares, but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other and entitled to vote classes of shares, the holder of the BHP Billiton Plc Special a member or members present in person or by proxy and Voting Share shall be entitled to be paid a fixed dividend of representing not less than 5 per cent of the total voting rights US$0.01 per annum, payable annually in arrears on 31 July.
of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting: or Subject to the rights attaching to the cumulative preference the holder of the Billiton Special Voting Share.
shares and the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share, but in As described under the heading Equalisation of economic priority to any payment of dividends on all other classes of and voting rights above, certain matters may be decided shares, the holder of the Equalisation Share shall be entitled as Joint Electorate Actions or Class Rights Actions.
to be paid such dividends as the Board may decide to pay thereupon.
In addition, at any general meeting a resolution, other than Any surplus remaining after payment of the distributions above a procedural resolution, put to the vote of the meeting on shall be payable to the holders of the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary which the holder of the relevant BHP Billiton Special Voting shares in equal amounts per BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share.
Share is entitled to vote shall be decided on a poll.
On a show of hands, every holder of a fully paid ordinary share Right on a return of assets on liquidation present in person or by proxy, attorney or representative has one On a return of assets on liquidation of BHP Billiton Limited, subject vote.
Where a shareholder has appointed more than one person to the payment of all prior ranking amounts owed to all creditors as representative, proxy or attorney for that shareholder, none of BHP Billiton Limited and preference shareholders, the assets of the representatives, proxies or attorneys are entitled to vote of BHP Billiton Limited remaining available for distribution among on a show of hands see below.
On a poll, however, votes may shareholders, after giving effect to the payment of all prior ranking be given either personally or by proxy.
amounts owed to all creditors and holders of preference shares, We are seeking shareholder approval at our 2008 Annual General shall be applied in paying to the holders of the BHP Billiton Limited Meetings to amend the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and Special Voting Share and the Equalisation Share if any an amount the Articles of BHP Billiton Plc to bring the Constitution and the of up to A$2.00 on each such share, on an equal priority with any Articles of Association in line with the new Companies Act 2006 amount paid to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares, UK by ensuring that where a shareholder appoints more than and any surplus remaining shall be applied in making payments one proxy, the multiple proxies taken together have at least the solely to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares in same number of votes on a show of hands as the member who accordance with their entitlements.
appointed them would have if he or she were present at the On a return of assets on liquidation of BHP Billiton Plc, subject to meeting.
The proposed amendments are not considered to be of the payment of all prior ranking amounts owed to the creditors practical consequence given BHP Billitons practice is to proceed of BHP Billiton Plc and prior ranking statutory entitlements, the directly to a poll on all items of business at general meetings.
assets of BHP Billiton Plc to be distributed on a winding up shall Further details are set out in the Notices of Meeting for the be distributed to the holders of shares in the following order 2008 Annual General Meetings.
of priority: to the holders of the cumulative preference shares, Rights to share in BHP Billiton Limiteds profits the repayment of a sum equal to the nominal capital paid up The rights attached to the shares of BHP Billiton Limited, as or credited as paid up on the cumulative preference shares regards the participation in the profits available for distribution, held by them and accrual, if any, of the Preferential Dividend are as follows: whether such dividend has been earned or declared or not, The holders of any preference shares shall be entitled, in priority calculated up to the date of commencement of the winding up to any payment of dividend to the holders of any other class of to the holders of the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares and to shares, to a preferred right to participate as regards dividends the holders of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share and the up to but not beyond a specified amount in distribution.
Equalisation Share if any, the payment out of surplus, if any, Subject to the special rights attaching to any preference remaining after the distribution above of an equal amount for shares, but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other each BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share, the BHP Billiton Plc Special classes of shares, the holder of the Equalisation Share if any Voting Share and the Equalisation Share, if issued, subject to shall be entitled to be paid such dividends as are declared.
a maximum in the case of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Any surplus remaining after payment of the distributions above Share and the Equalisation Share of the nominal capital shall be payable to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary paid up on such shares.
shares and the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share in equal amounts per share.
BHP BILLITON PLC CONCISE ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 65 5604 BHPB Concise Sec 5-BC.
