2.14.5 Retirement of Directors continued As described under the heading Equalisation of economic and voting rights in section 2.12.2 of this Report, certain matters may We are seeking shareholder approval at our 2008 Annual General be decided as Joint Electorate Actions or Class Rights Actions.
Meetings to amend the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of BHP Billiton Plc so that the cut-off date In addition, at any general meeting a resolution, other than a for Director nominations is measured from the earlier of the procedural resolution, put to the vote of the meeting on which BHP Billiton Limited and the BHP Billiton Plc general meetings the holder of the relevant BHP Billiton Special Voting Share which is appropriate given the Dual Listed Company structure.
is entitled to vote shall be decided on a poll.
Currently, the wording of the Constitution means that On a show of hands, every holder of a fully paid ordinary share BHP Billiton Limited uses the nominations cut-off period present in person or by proxy, attorney or representative has one contained in the ASX Listing Rules i. e. 35 business days vote.
Where a shareholder has appointed more than one person before the date of the BHP Billiton Limited meeting which as representative, proxy or attorney for that shareholder, none typically falls after the deadline for nominations as a director of the representatives, proxies or attorneys are entitled to vote of BHP Billiton Plc.
BHP Billiton Limited has in the past needed on a show of hands see below.
On a poll, however, votes may to seek ASX regulatory relief to avoid a situation in which be given either personally or by proxy.
a candidate could be eligible for election as a Director of BHP Billiton Limited but not as a Director of BHP Billiton Plc.
We are seeking shareholder approval at our 2008 Annual General If the proposed amendments are adopted, the cut-off date Meetings to amend the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and for both BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc will be the Articles of BHP Billiton Plc to bring the Constitution and the 40 business days before the earlier of the BHP Billiton Limited Articles in line with the new UK Companies Act 2006 by ensuring and BHP Billiton Plc general meetings.
Further details are set out that where a shareholder appoints more than one proxy, the in the Notices of Meeting for the 2008 Annual General Meetings.
multiple proxies taken together have at least the same number of votes on a show of hands as the member who appointed 2.14.6 Rights attaching to shares them would have if he or she were present at the meeting.
Dividend rights The proposed amendments are not considered to be of practical consequence given BHP Billitons practice is to proceed directly By law, dividends on shares may only be paid out of profits to a poll on all items of business at general meetings.
The Constitution and Articles of details are set out in the Notices of Meeting for the 2008 Annual Association provide that payment of any dividend may be General Meetings.
made in any manner, by any means and in any currency determined by the Board.
Rights to share in BHP Billiton Limiteds profits All unclaimed dividends may be invested or otherwise used by The rights attached to the shares of BHP Billiton Limited, as the Board for the benefit of whichever of BHP Billiton Limited regards the participation in the profits available for distribution, or BHP Billiton Plc declared that dividend, until claimed or, in the are as follows: case of BHP Billiton Limited, otherwise disposed of according to The holders of any preference shares shall be entitled, in law.
In the case of BHP Billiton Plc, any dividend unclaimed after priority to any payment of dividend to the holders of any a period of 12 years from the date on which such dividend was other class of shares, to a preferred right to participate as declared or became due for payment shall be forfeited and shall regards dividends up to but not beyond a specified amount revert to BHP Billiton Plc.
Subject to the special rights attaching to any preference Voting rights shares, but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other Voting at any general meeting of BHP Billiton Limited shareholders classes of shares, the holder of the Equalisation Share if any is in the first instance to be conducted by a show of hands unless shall be entitled to be paid such dividends as are declared.
a poll is demanded by any of the following except in relation to Any surplus remaining after payment of the distributions above the election of a chairman of a meeting or, unless the Chairman shall be payable to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary otherwise determines, the adjournment of a meeting : shares and the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share in the Chairman equal amounts per share.
any shareholder under the law: or the holder of the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share.
Voting at any general meeting of BHP Billiton Plc is in the first instance to be conducted by a show of hands unless a poll is demanded by any of the following: the Chairman not less than five members present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote a member or members present in person or by proxy and representing not less than five per cent of the total voting rights of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting: or the holder of the Billiton Special Voting Share.
