1 KEY INFORMATION 1.1 Our business We are the worlds largest diversified natural resources company, our objective being to create long-term value through the discovery, development and conversion of natural resources, and the provision of innovative customer and market-focused solutions.
We have significant businesses producing alumina and aluminium, copper, energy thermal coal, iron ore, nickel, manganese, metallurgical coal, oil and gas and uranium, as well as gold, zinc, lead, silver and diamonds.
We have approximately 41,000 employees, and 61,000 contractors, working in more than 100 operations in over 25 countries.
The Group is headquartered in Melbourne, Australia, Pre-conditional offers for Rio Tinto and consists of the BHP Billiton Limited Group and the On 6 February 2008, we announced the terms of two interBHP Billiton Plc Group as a combined enterprise, following conditional offers for the entire ordinary share capital of the completion of the Dual Listed Company DLC merger Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, which, together with their in June 2001.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have respective subsidiaries operate as a single economic entity each retained their separate corporate identities and maintained under a dual listed company structure known as Rio Tinto.
their separate stock exchange listings, but they are operated Rio Tinto is a leading international mining group, producing and managed as if they are a single unified economic entity, alumina and aluminium, bauxite, copper, diamonds, iron ore, with their boards and senior executive management comprising metallurgical and energy coal and uranium as well as other the same people.
base metals and industrial minerals.
In 2007, Rio Tinto acquired BHP Billiton Limited has a primary listing on the Australian Alcan, Inc. making its aluminium product group a global leader Securities Exchange ASX in Australia and secondary listings in aluminium.
The total cost of the acquisition amounted on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in Germany and the Zurich Stock to US$38.7 billion in cash, including fees.
BHP Billiton Plc has a primary listing Under the announced offers, we will offer 3.4 BHP Billiton shares on the London Stock Exchange LSE in the UK and a secondary for each Rio Tinto share tendered.
listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange in South Africa.
In addition, BHP Billiton Limited American Depositary Receipts The offers are subject to certain pre-conditions relating ADRs and BHP Billiton Plc ADRs trade on the New York Stock to merger control and regulatory approvals in a number of Exchange NYSE in the US.
jurisdictions, including the approval of anti-trust authorities in the European Union, the United States, Australia, Canada As at 30 June 2008, we had a market capitalisation of and South Africa and foreign investment authorities in Australia.
For the year ended 30 June 2008, On 2 July 2008, the US Department of Justice and the Federal we reported revenue of US$59.5 billion, profit from operations Trade Commission granted early termination of the Hart-Scottof US$24.1 billion, net profit attributable to shareholders of Rodino waiting period for the offers, which satisfied part US$15.4 billion and net operating cash flow of US$18.2 billion.
of the merger control pre-conditions.
We can only invoke We operate nine Customer Sector Groups CSGs aligned with a pre-condition to allow the offers not to proceed or to be the commodities which we extract and market, being: withdrawn where it is of material significance to us in the Petroleum context of the offers and the UK Panel on Takeovers and Aluminium Mergers has given its prior approval.
Base Metals Once the pre-conditions have been satisfied or waived, we will Diamonds and Specialty Products be obliged to make the offers on the terms announced or terms Stainless Steel Materials not substantially less favourable to Rio Tinto shareholders.
The offers will be subject to certain conditions being satisfied Iron Ore or waived, including: Manganese acceptances for more than 50 per cent of the ordinary shares in Metallurgical Coal Rio Tinto plc and for more than 50 per cent of the publicly held Energy Coal shares in Rio Tinto Limited, the passing by BHP Billiton shareholders of all necessary resolutions to implement and effect the offers, and the receipt of all necessary outstanding regulatory approvals.
We believe the combination of BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto is a logical and compelling combination for both companies and will unlock unique value and substantial benefits to BHP Billiton shareholders and Rio Tinto shareholders.
If we are successful in acquiring all of the shares of Rio Tinto on the announced terms, our current intention is to return up to US$30 billion to shareholders through a share buyback within 12 months of completion of the acquisition.
