3 Exchange controls and shareholding limits Remittances of any dividends, interest or other payments by BHP Billiton Limited to non-resident holders of BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton Limiteds securities are not restricted by There are no laws or regulations currently in force in the UK exchange controls or other limitations, save that in certain that restrict the export or import of capital or the remittance circumstances, BHP Billiton may be required to withhold of dividends to non-resident holders of BHP Billiton Plcs shares.
However, there are certain sanctions adopted by the UK There are no limitations, either under the laws of Australia Government which implement resolutions of the Security Council or under the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited, to the right of the United Nations and sanctions imposed by the European of non-residents to hold or vote BHP Billiton Limited ordinary Union against certain countries, entities and individuals.
Such shares other than as set out below.
sanctions may be in force from time to time and include those against: i certain entities and or individuals associated with The Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 Cth the FATA the Burmese regime, Cote dIvoire, The Democratic Peoples restricts certain acquisitions of interests in shares in BHP Billiton.
Republic of Korea North Korea, the Democratic Republic of Generally, under the FATA, the prior approval of the Australian Congo, Lebanon, Liberia, Iran, Sudan and the previous regimes Treasurer must be obtained for proposals by a foreign person of Iraq and Yugoslavia: ii officials of Belarus and Zimbabwe: either alone or together with associates to acquire control iii individuals indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal of 15 per cent or more of the voting power or issued shares for the former Yugoslavia: and iv entities and individuals linked in BHP Billiton Limited.
with the Taliban, Al-Qaeda and other terrorist organisations.
The FATA also empowers the Treasurer to make certain orders There are no restrictions under BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of prohibiting acquisitions by foreign persons in BHP Billiton Limited Association or subject to the effect of any sanctions under and requiring divestiture if the acquisition has occurred English law that limit the right of non-resident or foreign where he considers the acquisition to be contrary to the national owners to hold or vote BHP Billiton Plcs shares.
interest and the 15 per cent threshold referred to above would be exceeded as a result.
Such orders may also be made in respect There are certain restrictions on shareholding levels under of acquisitions by foreign persons where two or more foreign BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of Association described under persons and their associates in aggregate already control the heading BHP Billiton Limited below.
40 per cent or more of the issued shares or voting power BHP Billiton Limited in BHP Billiton Limited.
The Banking Foreign Exchange Regulations 1959 Cth may There are certain other statutory restrictions, and restrictions impose restrictions on certain financial transactions and require under BHP Billiton Limiteds Constitution and BHP Billiton Plcs the consent of the Reserve Bank of Australia for the movement Articles of Association, that apply generally to acquisitions of funds into and out of Australia.
Based on our searches, restrictions shares in BHP Billiton i. e. the restrictions are not targeted at currently apply if funds are to be paid to or received from specified foreign persons only.
These include restrictions on a person supporters of the former government of the Federal Republic and associates breaching a voting power threshold of: of Yugoslavia, specified ministers and senior officials of the 20 per cent in relation to BHP Billiton Limited on a stand-alone Government of Zimbabwe, certain specified entities associated basis, i. e. calculated as if there were no special voting share with the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea North Korea and only counting BHP Billiton Limiteds ordinary shares: and specified individuals associated with the Burmese regime.
30 per cent of BHP Billiton Plc.
This is the threshold for In addition, legislation and regulations are in place restricting a mandatory offer under Rule 9 of the UK takeover code and transactions with certain individuals or entities linked with this threshold applies to all voting rights of BHP Billiton Plc the Taliban, Al-Qaeda and other terrorist organisations, senior therefore including voting rights attached to the BHP Billiton Plc officials of the previous Government of Iraq and their immediate Special Voting Share : families, and certain entities and individuals associated with 30 per cent in relation to BHP Billiton Plc on a stand-alone the Democratic Republic of Congo, Cote dIvoire, Iran, Lebanon, basis, i. e. calculated as if there were no special voting share Liberia and Sudan.
The controls impose certain approval and and only counting BHP Billiton Plcs ordinary shares: and reporting requirements on transactions involving such countries, 20 per cent in relation to BHP Billiton, calculated having regard entities and individuals and or assets controlled or owned to all the voting power on a joint electorate basis, i. e. calculated by them.
Transfers into or out of Australia of amounts on the aggregate of BHP Billiton Limiteds and BHP Billiton Plcs greater than A$10,000 in any currency are also subject ordinary shares.
Under BHP Billiton Limiteds Constitution and BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of Association, sanctions for breach of any of these thresholds, other than by means of certain permitted acquisitions, include withholding of dividends, voting restrictions and compulsory divestment of shares to the extent a shareholder and its associates exceed the relevant threshold.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 55 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
