section 3 World-class assets World-class operations are the centrepiece of our strategy.
These operations have large resource bases that will support many decades of operations, are low cost to operate, easily expandable, at the upstream end of the production process and produce products that are sold into world markets.
Today, we have around 100 operations across the globe.
Western Australia iron ore, Australia 18 - BHP Billiton PlC ConCise AnnuAl rePort 2008 our portfolio changes have transformed BHP Billiton into an upstream-focused business.
We now own and operate a world-class suite of large, low-cost, long-life, diversified resources.
our assets are increasingly focused in products that are the primary beneficiaries of world demand.
Marketing hubs in singapore, the Hague and Antwerp, from where our Marketing personnel work directly with our customers to help meet their varied requirements.
the FUtURe Marcus randolph We currently hold the worlds leading position in the diversified Group executive and Chief executive resources industry.
However, our business is changing, largely Ferrous and Coal based on the demands of the developing world, including China.
to continue to grow, these countries need us to expand our We see our portfolio of assets as dynamic.
We look for every supply of natural resources.
opportunity to upgrade both the quality of our assets and to this need for growth is core to our strategy of holding expandable, increase our exposure to those products that we think have long-life assets.
Many of what will become our world-class especially attractive fundamentals.
the outcome of this operating assets of the future are in our project pipeline now.
approach has been dramatic changes to our portfolio since About 85 per cent of the projects in our pipeline, that are the merger of BHP and Billiton in 2001. currently in either execution or feasibility, are expansions of over the last seven years, we have divested entire downstream existing operations, meaning we are already familiar with each businesses such as steel, stainless steel and our us metals resources unique characteristics and the issues associated with distribution business.
Weve also sold our entire chrome and developing them further.
this provides us with an immediate, phosphate businesses.
in each of these cases, we saw the low-cost and low-risk means of increasing output.
business sector as strategically unattractive.
We also grow through exploration, but prefer to progress the capital from exiting these ventures was redeployed discoveries near our existing assets and infrastructure more so into high-quality assets that fit with our core strategy.
than discoveries in new countries.
that said, we need to do both these investments include the acquisition of the world-class and the global reach of BHP Billiton ensures that we have the olympic Dam copper and uranium mine, the announcement capability to successfully build and operate complex resource of a plan to triple our iron ore production and a substantial projects anywhere in the world.
acquisition in our metallurgical coal business.
We are also Finally, we need to grow through acquisition, particularly when developing a major resource position in potash, which we the target has assets that bring substantial synergies with our see as the beginning of what we believe will become another existing businesses and operations.
At the time of publication major business segment for us over the coming decade.
of this review, we are pursuing a takeover of another major these portfolio changes have transformed BHP Billiton into resources company, rio tinto.
At the heart of our desire to combine the two companies is the value achievable by bringing an upstream-focused business.
We now own and operate together the complementary portfolio of these two great a world-class suite of large, low-cost, long-life, diversified resources.
our assets are increasingly focused in products companies.
rio tinto is a very close fit with our Group.
its strategy, culture and asset portfolio are very similar to our that are the primary beneficiaries of world demand.
in many cases, our operations are adjacent to each other.
the mining and energy industries are currently experiencing Combining our companies will enable us to unlock value beyond unparalleled demand as the developing world industrialises.
what is achievable from either portfolio alone.
While our products are performing well in the current business environment, it is the world-class assets that underpin these woRld-ClaSS aSSetS product groups that deliver our outstanding profit margins.
our assets include around 100 it is these profit margins that provide, ultimately, the core operations spanning 25 countries.
100 of our value proposition for our shareholders.
Whether were talking about operations MaRketIng escondida, one of the worlds largest copper mines located in the A great business must be based on providing customers with what Atacama Desert in northern Chile: they want.
that means reliably meeting commitments for product 25 Mozal, our aluminium smelter in specifications and delivery schedules, and doing so at a fair price.
countries Mozambique: or Mt Whaleback, one our customers are spread globally, with revenue distribution of our iron ore mines in the Pilbara by region of approximately 24 per cent from europe, 20 per cent in the Western Australian outback: from China, 29 per cent from elsewhere in Asia, 10 per cent from our focus is on large, long-life, Australia, eight per cent from north America, with the remainder low-cost, upstream, expandable of customers located in south America, southern Africa and and export-oriented assets.
to most effectively service our customers, we have BHP Billiton PlC ConCise AnnuAl rePort 2008 - 19
