section 3 sharing value By supplying the building blocks for growth, our industry has contributed to improved socio-economic circumstances and opportunities for many people.
Along with host governments, business partners and employees, we share the responsibility to ensure all our key stakeholders derive value from our activities and that we contribute to the long-term sustainability of our host communities.
Mondulkiri Province, Cambodia 22 - BHP Billiton PlC ConCise AnnuAl rePort 2008 the value we generate from natural resources helps drive sustainable economic growth and contributes to sustainable development within communities that host our operations.
CoMMUnItY PRogRaMS In CaMBodIa in Mondulkiri Province, Cambodia, BHP Billiton is conducting a bauxite exploration program.
As part of our community engagement in the region, we are supporting initiatives designed to leave long-lasting, positive community benefits.
We have J Michael Yeager Group executive and assisted the Danish red Cross working in Cambodia with funding Chief executive Petroleum to provide safe drinking water and training on, and supply of, household water treatment filters.
red Cross volunteers are being trained and are operating in five villages.
new boreholes We continue to play an important role in social development have also been drilled to establish access to fresh water.
through employment and training opportunities, infrastructure provision, local business development and payment of taxes and royalties in our host countries.
We maintain our commitment to invest one per cent of BHP Billitons pre-tax profits, on a three-year rolling average, in community-based projects.
During FY2008, our contribution increased by us$37.6 million from the previous year to us$141.0 million, with major resources channelled to improving access to quality education and addressing major health issues, such as malaria and HiV AiDs.
our priority is to support projects that provide long-term benefits to host communities, regardless of our continuing presence.
For example, our community engagement in Mondulkiri Province, Cambodia pictured opposite, will provide ongoing benefit regardless of the outcome of our exploration program.
WestVAMP, illawarra Coal, Australia through our Matched Giving Program, we direct a proportion of the Companys social investment to organisations that our woRldS FIRSt PoweR Plant employees choose.
During FY2008, the Company contributed FUelled BY Coal MIne us$4.8 million to these organisations by matching employee ventIlatIon aIR US$ donations, fundraising and volunteering.
this is a significant At BHP Billiton illawarra Coals increase from the previous year.
West Cliff Mine, in new south Wales, Australia, ventilation air 141M envIRonMent and ClIMate Change containing dilute methane is invested in community our challenge is to meet the growing global demand being used to generate electricity based projects for resources while addressing the challenges of climate commercially.
A world-first change, achieving sustainable supply and ensuring effective development by BHP Billiton and environmental protection.
US$ its technology provider, MeGteC systems, the A$30 million plant the Companys participation in the climate change agenda is generates some six megawatts evolving as we continue to follow developments in economics, 4.8M of electricity per hour while public policy and the carbon footprint of our business.
employee reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
matched giving our new five-year targets, which we report on for the first time the potential for this technology this year, reflect our intent to further reduce the energy and was recognised by the united states greenhouse gas intensity of our business.
We are also working environment Protection Agency with others to find technological solutions to manage our with an award in May 2008. emissions and to address the impact of our products in relation to climate change.
Greater detail on our sustainability performance is available in the summary and Full sustainability reports, which you can access through our website at www.
BHP Billiton PlC ConCise AnnuAl rePort 2008 - 23
