section 3 Growth Since BHP Billiton was formed in 2001, we have delivered continued growth in the production volume of our commodities, across our diversified portfolio.
In FY2008 we continued our unbroken record of increasing overall volume growth.
For the next five years, our forecast volume growth is around seven per cent a year, reflecting a robust expansion pipeline.
About 45 per cent of our forecast growth in this period will be in our steelmaking materials, being iron ore, metallurgical coal and manganese.
Our energy products are expected to account for 37 per cent of volume growth.
Non-ferrous materials, which include copper, nickel and alumina, will comprise around 18 per cent of volume growth.
Most of our growth in the next five years will come from expanding existing operations, using new technologies, in geographies with which we are familiar.
We currently have 28 projects in either execution or feasibility, which represents an expected capital investment of US$24.8 billion.
Looking further ahead, we have growth opportunities that span our range of current commodities, and we will introduce new products to our range, in particular our potash project in Canada see page 25.
Our medium-term growth options represent an expected capital commitment in excess of US$90 billion.
US$ 115B total project pipeline shenzi, Gulf of Mexico ravensthorpe nickel operations, Australia 24 - BHP Billiton PlC ConCise AnnuAl rePort 2008 on the basis of a three-year drilling campaign, weve determined olympic Dam is the fourth-largest copper deposit, the fifth-largest gold deposit and the largest uranium deposit in the world.
it is against this backdrop that we are examining a staged expansion of our olympic Dam operation.
CaSe StUdY: olYMPIC daM, aUStRalIa olympic Dam could well turn out to be the worlds greatest polymetallic orebody.
on the basis of a three-year drilling campaign, weve determined it is the fourth-largest copper deposit in the world and the fifth-largest gold deposit.
it is also the largest uranium deposit in the world: simply put, it is without peer in the uranium world.
With demand for uranium increasing as nations seek to respond to greenhouse challenges and energy needs, olympic Dam, together with other energy products in our portfolio, will help to meet the worlds growing energy needs.
We are planning for several expansion phases that will ultimately see copper production rise from 180,000 to 730,000 tonnes per annum and uranium production rise from 4,000 to 19,000 tonnes per annum.
olympic Dam is already a successful operating mine.
Applying our knowledge and confidence to a staged brownfield expansion will help to simplify the expansion and reduce the cost and risk compared to greenfield equivalents.
CaSe StUdY: PotaSh, Canada BHP Billiton has accumulated more than 7,000 square kilometres of prospective potash exploration ground in saskatchewan and Manitoba, Canada.
this land position and the fundamentals of the potash industry provide an excellent fit with BHP Billitons corporate strategy.
our first opportunity in the area, known as the Jansen Project, envisages the development of an underground mining operation, processing plant and associated infrastructure.
the project is being assessed to determine its optimal production rate, expected to be between four and eight million tonnes of KCl potash product per annum, over at least 50 years.
While were conducting the Jansen study, we plan to pursue other potash projects in the region.
We take the view that the demand for agricultural commodities such as potash, one of the key mined components of fertiliser, will increase in tandem with the industrialisation of emerging economies.
our land position provides for a large, long-life, low-cost and expandable resource that is export oriented.
We have the complementary skill sets necessary to develop the operations underground, bulk commodity, soft rock mining experience on an optimal basis and expect to be a major player in the industry within the next 10 years.
olympic Dam, Australia BHP Billiton PlC ConCise AnnuAl rePort 2008 - 25 section 4 Don Argus Marius Kloppers Paul Anderson Alan Boeckmann John Buchanan Carlos Cordeiro David Crawford Gail fide Planque David Jenkins David Morgan Jacques Nasser Keith Rumble John Schubert Jane McAloon Group Company Secretary 26 - BHP Billiton PlC ConCise annual rePort 2008
