3 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS continued 3.4 External factors and trends affecting our results The following section describes some of the external factors and trends that have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
We operate our business in a dynamic and changing environment, and with information that is rarely complete and exact.
We primarily manage the risks discussed in this section under our portfolio management approach, which relies on the effects of diversification, rather than individual price risk management programs.
Details of our financial risk management and financial instruments outstanding at 30 June 2008 may be found in note 26 Financial risk management in the financial statements.
Management monitors particular trends arising in the external factors with a view to managing the potential impact on our future financial condition and results of operations.
The following external factors could have a material adverse effect on our business and areas where we make decisions on the basis of information that is incomplete or uncertain.
1 Commodity prices The 2008 financial year has seen higher average prices for most of our major commodities than in the prior year.
Demand for raw materials in the emerging market economies has remained strong.
In particular, China remains a key driver of global commodity consumption through its position as a net importer of raw materials.
Chinas competitiveness and ability to innovate in downstream processing has been demonstrated again with sustained nickel pig iron production.
In light of differing activity for the developed and emerging market economies, there have been mixed spot prices for key commodities.
In particular, bulk and energy related commodities have tended to outperform the LME traded metals.
We expect the effects of current weaknesses in the developed economies on demand for our commodities to be offset by ongoing demand from the emerging economies.
Supply side pressures remain high and price outcomes have regularly been underestimated by industry observers.
In the short-term, we expect prices to remain high relative to historical levels, albeit with higher volatility.
Looking to the longer term, demand for our commodities is expected to remain strong.
We expect that higher long-run raw materials and energy prices and stronger producer currencies should place upward pressure on industry supply costs, and hence, prices of minerals commodities.
We continue to expect that commodity prices will be driven by long-run marginal cost of supply.
The following table shows prices of our most significant commodities for each of the years ended 30 June 2008, 2007 and 2006.
These prices represent the average quoted price except where indicated otherwise.
2 Newman fines price in Japan.
3 Price represents that set in April of the relevant fiscal year.
4 Prime hard coking coal worldwide.
The following summarises the trends of our most significant Copper: Copper demand, driven by China, grew close to commodities for FY2008.
four per cent year-on-year during the 2007 calendar year, with the International Copper Study Group ICSG estimating total Oil: Crude oil prices continued their rise, to an average of global copper demand at 39.9 billion pounds.
However, in the US$96.98 bbl, up 54 per cent from a year ago.
This is due first three months of calendar year 2008, refined copper demand to a confluence of factors such as sustained weakness in the is estimated by the ICSG to have fallen by around one per cent US dollar, speculative activity, strong geopolitical factors year-on-year.
Combined exchange stocks at LME Comex Shanghai in Iran and Nigeria and tightness in global refinery capacity.
We fell during FY2008 by 134 million pounds, from 497 million believe that fundamentals remain supportive of the higher prices, pounds to 363 million pounds.
LME cash prices in the first half as weakness in oil demand growth in the OECD region was offset of FY2008 averaged 337.9 US lb and despite weaker fundamentals by key players in the non-OECD region, namely by China, India in the second half of FY2008 prices averaged 368.3 US lb.
These non-OECD parties contributed strongly to the overall 86.6 MMbbl d in oil demand.
Although we Nickel: Nickel prices have continued to demonstrate greater expect an easing in fundamentals in 2009 on positive non-OPEC price volatility than most other metals, and the last year has supply outlook and softening global demand caused by higher oil been no exception with sharp falls in prices.
The nickel price prices, prices should continue to be well supported in the short began FY2008 with a price of US$16.76 lb.
A bearish outlook to medium term.
driven by a boom in nickel pig iron production in China and fide-stocking in the global stainless steel industry led to a price Aluminium: The aluminium market remained strong throughout decline through the first half of FY2008, with an average nickel FY2008.
The benchmark three-month price on the LME for price of US$13.54 lb.
During the second half of FY2008, bearish the final month of the fiscal year was US$3,005 per tonne, sentiment in the investment community combined with a up from a price of US$2,788 per tonne for the opening month.
sustained increase in LME stock made the nickel price fall further For the fiscal year as a whole the LME three-month price to an average price of US$12.38 lb.
The nickel price closed at averaged $2,718 per tonne compared to $2,699 per tonne US$9.83 lb at the end of the year.
LME nickel stocks increased in FY2007.
Official LME stocks have risen over the course from 19.5 million pounds at the start of the financial year to of FY2008.
Prices have been supported by a combination of 103 million pounds at the end of FY2008.
concerns relating to supply interruptions and rapid increases in production input costs, with energy being a central theme.
98 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
