"Aviva plc 330 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Shareholder services Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP Scrip Dividend Scheme Managing your shareholding Following a review by the Board of the operation of the current DRIP, Our Registrar, Equiniti, maintains the Companys Register of Members the Company intends to propose a resolution at the forthcoming and if you have any queries in respect of your shareholding, please AGM to reintroduce a SCRIP dividend scheme ""SCRIP Scheme""."
The contact them directly using the contact details provided on page Board has therefore decided to withdraw the DRIP and, subject to 332.
In addition to assisting with general queries, Equiniti can also shareholder approval, will reintroduce the SCRIP Scheme commencing help with the following: with the 2008 final dividend in order to provide shareholders with the Amalgamating your shareholding opportunity to elect to receive their dividends in the form of new If you receive more than one copy of our communications, it could shares in the Company instead of in cash.
All shareholders will be be because you have more than one record on the share register.
contacted with full details of the relevant terms and conditions of the To avoid duplicate mailings, please contact Equiniti who can arrange proposed SCRIP Scheme and details of how to join in due course.
for your accounts to be amalgamated.
ID fraud unsolicited mail Dividend payments direct to your bank account Share-related fraud and identity theft still affects many shareholders Instead of having your dividends paid by cheque, you can, if you and we urge you to continue to be vigilant.
If you receive wish, have them credited directly into your bank or building society any unsolicited mail offering advice, you should inform Equiniti account on the dividend payment date.
This reduces the risk of immediately.
More information on this can be found on our cheques getting lost in the post and is also quicker and more website at www.
com shareholderupdates convenient as payment is credited automatically on the payment date.
Your tax voucher will be sent to your registered address as Corporate nominee usual.
If you would like to set up a dividend mandate, you can We offer a corporate nominee service, the Aviva Share Account, do so via our website www.
com dividendmandate for shareholders who wish to remain anonymous.
If you choose to or by contacting Equiniti to request a mandate form.
join the nominee account, your personal details will not be entered on our share register but you will have the same rights as registered If you live overseas, an Overseas Payment Service is available shareholders and will receive the same shareholder communications.
for certain countries, which may allow you to receive your dividends To join the Aviva Share Account or find out about the terms and directly in your bank account in your local currency.
Consolidated tax vouchers If you are a private shareholder who currently receives dividends paid directly into your bank or building society account, you will receive one consolidated tax voucher each year instead of a voucher with each dividend payment, unless you request otherwise.
Please note that a payment charge will be deducted from each dividend payment before conversion into your chosen currency.
com shareholders for up-to-date investor information including our latest financial results and key dates.
An electronic copy of current and past Annual and Interim Reports can be downloaded from the website.
You can also find our current and historic share prices, sharedealing information, news, updates and when available, presentations from the Group Chief Executive.
You can also register to receive future shareholder communications electronically.
A range of frequently asked shareholder questions including practical help on transferring shares and updating personal details is available online at www.
com shareholderguide Electronic communications ShareGift We have embraced the changes brought about by the Companies The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates Act 2006 which recognises the growing importance of electronic a purely voluntary charity share donation communications.
We therefore provide documentation and scheme for shareholders who wish to communications to you via our website unless you have specifically dispose of small numbers of shares when elected to receive a hard copy.
the dealing costs or minimum fee makes it uneconomical to sell them.
Details of Using electronic communications enables fast receipt of documents, the scheme are available from ShareGift at reduces our printing, paper and postage costs and has a positive www.
org or can be obtained impact on the environment.
You can also cast your vote for the next AGM online, quickly and easily using the Sharevote service by visiting www.
com agm for a reliable and environmentally friendly way of voting.
Other information 328 332 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 331 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Share dealing We have arranged the following services that can be used to buy or sell Aviva shares which you may find useful.
Available to shareholders in If you hold a share certificate If your shares are held in the Aviva Share Account Equiniti Financial Services Limited UK only www.
co. uk dealing Telephone: 08456 037 037 Telephone: 08456 037 037 NatWest Stockbrokers Limited UK only Freephone: 0808 208 4411 Freephone: 0808 208 4422 Barclays Stockbrokers Limited UK and overseas UK shareholders: UK shareholders: Telephone: 0870 549 3002 Telephone: 0870 549 3001 For postal applications: 0870 514 3263 Overseas shareholders: Overseas shareholders: Telephone: 44 0 141 352 3959 Telephone: 44 0 141 352 3959 # WH Ireland Limited UK and overseas UK shareholders: Not available Telephone: 0845 603 1470 Email: CSOS@WH-ireland.
co. uk Overseas shareholders: Telephone 44 113 394 6603 Email: CSOS@WH-ireland.
co. uk Alternatively, if you hold a share certificate, you can also use any bank, building society or stockbroker offering share dealing facilities to buy or sell shares.
If you are in any doubt about buying or selling shares, you should seek professional financial advice.
Equiniti Financial Services Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority of 25 The North Colonnade, Canary Wharf, London E14 5HS FSA reference 468631.
Registered in England and Wales, number 6208699.
Natwest Stockbrokers Limited NWS is a member of the London Stock Exchange and PLUS.
NWS is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority registered number 124395.
Registered Office: Waterhouse Square, 138-142 Holborn, London EC1N 2TH.
Registered in England and Wales, registered number 1959479.
NWS is operated by a joint venture between The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and The Toronto-Dominion Bank.
Barclays Stockbrokers is the group name for the businesses of: Barclays Stockbrokers Limited, a member of the London Stock Exchange and PLUS.
2092410 and Barclays Bank Trust Company Limited, Registered No.
All companies are registered in England and the registered address is: 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP.
All companies are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Calls made to 0870 numbers will cost no more than 8p per minute, plus 6p call set-up fee for BT residential customers.
The price on non-BT phone lines may be different.
You can only use these numbers if you are calling from within the UK.
Calls may be recorded to monitor the quality of service, to check instructions and for security purposes.
If you are not UK resident, you will need to provide various documents to Barclays Stockbrokers Limited in order to use this service and details will be provided on registration.
Please note that regulations prevent this service from being offered to US, Canadian and Australian residents.
Settlement proceeds will be sent to either a UK sterling bank account or by sterling cheque.
# WH Ireland Limited is a member of the London Stock Exchange and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority, registered in England No.
Shareholder profile Share price The categories of ordinary shareholders and the range and size of shareholding You can access the current share as at 31 December 2008 are set out below: price of Aviva plc ordinary shares at www.
com investors Analysis of shareholders No.
Pension fund managers and insurance companies 106 0.02 132,557 0.01 If you would like to find out the price Other corporate bodies 3,814 0.62 126,836,441 4.77 of Aviva preference shares, please follow Total 616,515 100 2,657,701,624 100 the link on the Aviva website to the London Stock Exchange at Range of shareholdings No.
The average time to access the share price is approximately one minute.
Other telephony provider costs Total 616,515 100 2,657,701,624 100 may vary.
Annual General Meeting Our Annual General Meeting will be held at the Barbican Centre, Silk Street, London EC2Y 8DS on: 29 April 2009 at 11.00am The Notice of Meeting, together with details of the business to be conducted at the Meeting is available on our website www.
com agm If you are unable to attend but would like to ask the directors any questions, please do so via our website www.
com agm or complete and return the shareholder questions form, which can be found at the back of the Notice of Meeting.
Answers to the most frequently asked questions will be circulated at the meeting and published on our website after the meeting.
The voting results for our 2009 AGM, including proxy votes and votes withheld will be available on our website shortly after the meeting at the following address www.
com agm Aviva plc 332 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Shareholder services continued Group financial calendar for 2009 Announcement of financial results for the year ended 31 December 2008 5 March Annual General Meeting 29 April Announcement of first quarter interim management statement 30 April Announcement of unaudited six months interim results 6 August Announcement of third quarter interim management statement 4 November Ordinary shares - 2008 final dividend Ex-dividend date 25 March Record date 27 March Dividend payment date 15 May Preference shares 3 First dividend payment for 8 8% cumulative irredeemable preference shares 31 March 3 First dividend payment for 8 4% cumulative irredeemable preference shares 30 June 3 Second dividend payment for 8 8% cumulative irredeemable preference shares 30 September 3 Second dividend payment for 8 4% cumulative irredeemable preference shares 31 December Useful contact details Alternative format Detailed below are the contact details that shareholders may find useful.
Please quote If you would like to request a Aviva plc as well as the name and address in which the shares are held in all copy of our Annual Report and correspondence.
Please quote your shareholder reference number as well, which you will Accounts in an alternative format, find on your latest dividend stationery.
for example, braille or audio, General shareholding, administration and Aviva Share Account queries please contact Equiniti by calling Equiniti 0871 384 2953.
Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA e-mail: aviva@equiniti.
com | Telephone 0871 384 2953 Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephony provider costs may vary.
Internet sites Aviva owns various internet sites, most Other useful links for shareholders: of which interlink with each other: Dividend information Aviva Group www.
com General shareholder information UK Long-term savings and general www.
com shareholders insurance Annual General Meeting www.
com information Asset management www.
com Electronic voting for Aviva worldwide internet sites Annual General Meeting www.
com agm From 1 June 2009, this website will change to www.
co. uk Aviva plc details Registered in England Number: 2468686 Registered Office: St Helens, 1 Undershaft, London, EC3P 3DQ Telephone 44 0 20 7283 2000 www.
com 1 Chairmans introduction 2 Group chief executives review 4 Group chief executives perspective Our business 14 Group structure 36 Regional overviews: Aviva is the worlds fifth largest insurance group, serving 50 million 16 Our global brand 36 Aviva investors 18 Group strategy 42 UK customers across Europe, North America and Asia Pacific.
Our main 20 Key performance indicators 50 Europe business activities are long-term savings, fund management and general 22 Group performance 58 North America 28 Capital management 64 Asia Pacific insurance.
We are the largest insurance services provider in the UK 32 Risk management 70 People and responsibility and one of the leading providers of life and pension products in Europe.
80 Basis of preparation 82 Board of directors 86 Executive management 87 Directors report 90 Corporate governance report 96 Audit Committee report 98 Nomination Committee report Group 99 Risk and Regulatory Committee report 100 Corporate Social Responsibility Worldwide sales MCEV operating Committee report 3,500 50,000 profit before tax 101 Directors remuneration report 51,415m 3,000 2007: 50,274m 40,000 3,358m 2,500 2007: 3,065m 30,000 2,000 1,500 122 Contents 278 Financial statements of the Company 20,000 123 Independent auditors report 281 Notes to the Company financial statements 1,000 125 Accounting policies 10,000 500 140 Consolidated income statement 141 Pro forma reconciliation of Group operating 0 0 profit to profit before tax 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 143 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 143 Reconciliation of movements in consolidated IFRS operating IFRS total return 2,500 100 shareholders equity 2,500 profit before tax after tax 144 Consolidated balance sheet 2,000 80 attributable to 145 Consolidated cash flow statement 2,000 2.0 885 m shareholders 1,500 60 146 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2007: 1,498m 1,500 1,000 2,297m 40 2007: 2,216m 288 Independent auditors report 500 20 1,000 1.5 289 Summarised consolidated income statement 0 0 290 Consolidated statement of recognised 500 income and expenses 500 Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com using the paperless proofing system Wizardry.
20 IFRS m IFRS total return after tax m 290 Reconciliation of movements in Dividend cover EPS pence 1,000 0 1.0 40 shareholders equity Board photography by Marcus Ginns.
291 Summarised consolidated balance sheet 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 292 Reconciliation of shareholders equity All registered trademarks acknowledged.
293 Group MCEV analysis of earnings Full year dividend Equity 294 Segmentation of summarised consolidated 16 shareholders 20,000 balance sheet Aviva are committed to caring for the environment and looking for sustainable ways to minimise our impact on it.
14 33.00p 30 funds 295 Notes to the MCEV financial statements 2007: 33.00p 12 This year our annual report and accounts has been printed by Beacon Press using pureprint environmental print technology.
15,000 12,912m 10 20 We choose Beacon Press because they have the important environmental certification by SGS for the FSC standards.
2007: 19,998m 8 325 Glossary 10,000 Also we take care to minimise the impact on the environment in the paper we use.
The paper we have used, Revive 50:50 Silk, is a 328 Aviva Group of Companies 6 330 Shareholder services 10 recycled paper containing 50% recovered waste and 50% virgin fibre and manufactured at a mill accredited with ISO 14001 environmental 4 5,000 management standard.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free process.
The laminate used on the outer Equity shareholders funds m 2 Return on equity shareholders cover is biodegradeable.
This ensures there is an audited chain of custody Based on gross worldwide premiums at 31 December 2007. from the tree in the well-managed forest through to the finished document in the Typically includes motor, household, creditor, health, commercial motor, commercial property and commercial liability insurance.
From continuing operations, including share of associates premiums.
From continuing operations, long-term savings results are included on an MCEV basis before adjusting items for 2008 and 2007.
Prior years are presented on an EEV basis.
ISO 14001 A pattern of control for an environmental management system against Cert no.
which an organisation can be credited by a third party.
# Return based on opening equity shareholders funds presented on an MCEV basis for 2008 and 2007.
Prior years on an EEV basis.
m m pence times m m m % pence Financial statements Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Other information MCEV IFRS Aviva plc Aviva plc St Helens, 1 Undershaft London EC3P 3DQ Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Telephone 44 0 20 7283 2000 www.
com Registered in England Number 2468686 By recognising who people are and what they want, and doing something about it, we aim to set ourselves apart from other companies.
This years report features examples of the new and different ways in which we are working in order to make this happen.
View the annual report and accounts online: aviva.
com 2008annualreport Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Aviva plc Annual Review 2008 Contents By recognising who people are and what they 1 Chairmans introduction 2 Group chief executives review want, and doing something about it, we aim 4 Group chief executives perspective 8 Group structure 10 Our global brand to set ourselves apart from other companies.
12 Group strategy 14 Key performance indicators 16 Divisional summary 18 People and responsibility 20 Board of directors This is Aviva.
22 Summary financial statements 28 Shareholder services Our business Aviva is the worlds fifth largest insurance group, serving 50 million customers across Europe, North America and Asia Pacific.
Our main business activities are long-term savings, fund management and general insurance.
We are the largest insurance services provider in the UK and one of the leading providers of life and pension products in Europe.
Typically includes motor, household, creditor, health, commercial motor, commercial property and commercial liability insurance.
# Return based on opening equity shareholders funds.
Presented on an MCEV basis for 2008 and 2007.
m m pence times m m m % pence Aviva plc Annual Review 2008 01 Chairmans introduction Dear Shareholder, In my experience, the situation in which we find ourselves as we enter 2009 is unprecedented.
The recent period will long be remembered as one of the most turbulent for financial markets, and indeed the world economy, since records began.
Banks have been nationalised, global insurance businesses have failed, interest rates and share prices have plunged, mortgage lending has been reduced to a trickle, and no one can accurately forecast where and when the current situation will be resolved.
Aviva is well placed to weather this crisis, and for both our life and general insurance operations it is business as usual.
We have made sensible Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE Chairman decisions in the past, greatly reducing our exposure to equities and introducing a robust risk management strategy.
We have good liquidity and a strong balance sheet.
Our vision, one Aviva, twice the value, is proving its worth and during the past year we have continued to attract and retain customers wherever we do business.
We are not immune to the effects of the current situation.
Our 2008 results demonstrate our resilience and our ability to focus on what we are good at, namely providing prosperity and peace of mind for our customers, as well as maintaining the strength of our balance sheet.
Dividend Our dividend policy remains unchanged.
As a guide we use dividend cover in the 1.5 to 2.0 times range, based on IFRS operating earnings after tax and I am pleased to announce that our recommended final ordinary dividend for 2008 is 19.91 pence per share, bringing the total dividend for the year to 33.00 pence, in line with last year 2007: 33.00 pence.
Board developments Our thanks are due to Guillermo fide la Dehesa who retired from the board at the end of 2008 after a long period of service.
His experience of international financial and economic matters has been invaluable to us and we wish him well.
Mark Hodges, chief executive officer of Norwich Union Life, joined the board in June 2008 and brings with him a rare mix of operational and strategic expertise.
We also welcome Euleen Goh who joined us in January 2009.
Most recently chief executive of Standard Chartered Bank in Singapore 2001-2006, Euleen has a wealth of experience both as an executive and non-executive and will bring fresh insight into important areas of activity in South East Asia.
I would also like to thank all our Aviva people, led by Andrew Moss and his team, for their skill and dedication during what has undoubtedly been a challenging year for everyone.
04 07 More on the events of 2008 l 20 21 More on our Board l Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE 18 19 More on our people l Chairman Aviva plc 02 Annual Review 2008 Group chief executives review Andrew Moss Group chief executive Dear Shareholder, Financial results Last year I outlined our vision to unlock value and drive growth from We have reported our results for the first time on a market our existing business one Aviva, twice the value.
Events in 2008 consistent embedded value MCEV basis.
MCEV is an improvement have certainly made it harder to achieve our medium term objectives in many ways on European embedded value EEV reporting, but we remain 100% committed to their delivery.
Im confident that which we have previously used, and Aviva is one of the first to adopt we can deliver our vision for our customers, our shareholders and this basis in the UK.
It leads to a more conservative view of our our people.
business which is appropriate in the current economic environment.
When times are tough people want to protect what they have.
As a global group with 63% of our total sales coming from They look for reassurance from brands they can trust and our long outside the UK we have benefited from currency movements in the experience of managing risk gives Aviva the strength and stability year, mainly the appreciation of the euro and US dollar.
our results also reflect the impact of the financial volatility that weve In a challenging year, the most difficult that I or any of my seen in 2008.
On an IFRS basis shareholder funds have fallen to colleagues have had to encounter, weve remained true to our core 11,052 million 2007: 12,946 million.
However, using the MCEV purpose of bringing prosperity and peace of mind to our customers.
methodology, the impact of market movements is significantly We are not immune to the financial crisis, but we are confident greater and shareholder funds are reduced to 12,912 million that we have the right strategy for a successful future.
The great majority of this reduction to report that this is reflected in sound trading performance, in shareholders funds is due to prudent marking to market of with growth in both our life and pensions and general insurance our assets rather than realised cash losses.
In addition we have undertaken a thorough review as they will to some degree, at some point, our shareholders of the value of our assets and liabilities and provided prudently funds will also increase.
for possible future losses so that we can withstand future volatility On an IFRS basis, the group operating profit before tax was and uncertainty.
2,297 million 2007 restated: 2,216 million and total IFRS return Today were the fifth-largest insurance group in the world.
was a loss of 885 million 2007 restated: 1,498 million profit We have over 50 million customers, 54,000 employees, global sales which again reflected the significant impact of investment market of 51.4 billion and 381 billion of funds under management.
This resulted in IFRS earnings per share being a loss of 36.8 pence 2007 restated: 48.9 pence profit.
Meanwhile our underlying business has shown great resilience.
Pre-tax operating profit on an MCEV basis was 3,358 million 2007 restated: 3,065 million with strong results in both our long-term savings and general insurance business lines.
Return on equity shareholders funds on an MCEV basis was 11.0% 2007: 10.4% and the net asset value of the group at 31 December was 486 pence 31 December 2007: 763 pence.
Purpose Prosperity and peace of mind A strategy to deliver our vision Vision One Aviva, twice the value The Aviva triangle has been developed to explain the purpose, vision, strategy and regional performance Strategic Targets of the group.
Our strategic priorities are: priorities Manage composite portfolio Aviva Investors Build global asset management Allocate capital rigorously UK Europe North Asia Increase customer reach America Pacific Boost productivity Aviva plc Annual Review 2008 03 The enormous financial volatility of 2008 has led to a reduction Delivering for our customers in the capital that we hold in excess of regulatory requirements.
Our purpose is to provide prosperity and peace of mind to our We remain in a strong position with an IGD capital surplus of 50 million customers around the world.
I am pleased with the 2.0 billion at the end of 2008.
Maintaining this capital strength progress we are making towards measuring customer advocacy has been a priority in 2008 and will remain so in 2009. across our group.
It will help us measure and improve customer experience and build customer loyalty.
Currently over two thirds Maintaining our dividend of our businesses are at or better than the external benchmark Our group dividend policy remains unchanged.
With savings rates and we aim to be world-class.
In the end the number of customers at a record low, this is good news for our shareholders as well as that stay with us and recommend us to others is the ultimate a mark of our financial strength.
Our recommended final ordinary measure of our success.
It has been pleasing to see the strong dividend is 19.91 pence per share, bringing the total dividend for growth in our customer numbers, particularly in China and central the year to 33.00 pence, unchanged from 2007. and eastern Europe.
When I talk to customers, I am always struck how good Strength of our business it is when we are delivering first class service.
Our challenge is In 2008 we benefited more than ever from the diversity of our to do this consistently, day in, day out and this is what we aim business model, as the spread of our businesses and geographical to deliver through our new brand promise.
reach helped to mitigate risk.
Despite the downturn, we achieved our highest ever life Building the Aviva brand and pensions sales in our UK Life market.
In the United States we Through the year weve moved several steps closer to our goal met our target of doubling new business sales, a year earlier than of a global brand.
We already operate as Aviva in 21 markets and expected.
In our general insurance business, profits improved by June 2009, Norwich Union will have been renamed as Aviva.
despite continuing tough market conditions and our focus now Hibernian in Ireland and Commercial Union in Poland move fully is on sustainable profitability rather than volumes.
You can read more about our brand In the Asia Pacific markets we saw life and pensions business on page 10. growing on the back of our Chinese joint venture and our new ventures in South Korea and Taiwan.
Some European markets Pride in our people suffered in 2008 but we performed well in central and eastern If our 54,000 people around the world feel valued and that their Europe.
With over 65% of sales coming from outside the UK, contribution matters, they will in turn provide excellent service for our weve also benefited from currency movements such as the customers.
Im particularly pleased that in this difficult year, our global appreciation of the euro.
employee climate survey shows improvements in almost every area In September we launched Aviva Investors, pooling our of activity.
Our staff have weathered an unsettling year with enormous asset management skills into a single company.
With 236 billion professionalism and dedication, and I am grateful to them.
currently under management, working in 15 countries around We want this to be a great organisation to work for, and the world, we fully expect to see Aviva Investors become a I believe that our people show all the signs of being proud to belong powerhouse in global investment.
to the global family that is Aviva.
As a result of our cost cutting exercise, there were some redundancies in 2008: a difficult decision, Managing our risk but necessary to ensure the future development of the business.
Sound risk management has always been at the heart of our In 2008, I appointed the final members of my leadership team.
This discipline has served us well in 2008.
I now have the support of a ten strong executive team: talented and Whether its financial risk as a result of changes in the values dedicated individuals who are working together to achieve our vision.
of our investments and insurance liability or credit risk from our As a company, we take our obligations to the world around us investment in bonds and other securities, we are monitoring and seriously.
Were a leader in the field of corporate responsibility and managing our risk continuously.
many of our people play an active part in the communities in which There are many examples of our prudent approach to risk.
In 2008 we continued to be recognised by a wide range Expectations of credit default increased dramatically in 2008 and of external benchmarks for the work we do across a range of activities.
within our UK annuity company we have made provisions at a level which assumes credit default will be worse than at any time Committed to our vision in modern business history, worse even than the 1930s.
We have We remain committed to our vision of one Aviva, twice the value.
experienced some credit default losses during the year, but these It has given us the focus to remain on course during one of the most have been acceptable within the overall scale of our business.
difficult years in financial memory.
Providing prosperity and peace Back in 2007 we made a sound decision to manage our equity of mind for our customers is a long term enterprise.
This long term risk when we sold 3.4 billion of equities and weve also taken view of our business has meant that weve managed our resources steps to safeguard ourselves against further falls in equity markets carefully and avoided excessive risk.
That gives me real confidence through the derivatives markets.
Financial volatility has also meant that we have had to reassess the policyholder and shareholder elements of the reattribution of the In the following pages youll find more about the general inherited estate in the UK to ensure fairness between shareholders trading conditions and our business activities over the last and policyholders.
This negotiation continues in a constructive way.
year, plus our plans for the year ahead.
I hope youll take the time to read on.
Andrew Moss Group chief executive Aviva plc 04 Annual Review 2008 Group chief executives perspective Whats happened?
I want you to be strong I wasnt born yesterday I want you to be strong Show us that we matter Our own industry is not unscathed.
In September 2008 we The global economy saw AIG, once the worlds largest insurer, being bailed out 2008 was one of the most turbulent years in economic history as a with $150 billion from the US government largely due to its wide range of assets posted record or near record falls.
in 2007 as a crisis in US sub-prime mortgages spread first through At Aviva, we have seen a fall in the value of the investments the global banking system and then the broader economy as credit we hold.
The majority of our investments are measured at fair markets froze and equity markets fell.
value according to International Financial Reporting Standards Governments introduced a series of measures aimed at IFRS and our balance sheet, and consequently our net asset restarting lending and supporting economies.
By year-end a large value, reflects substantial unrealised losses on these investments.
part of the global banking system was effectively under government However, we hold these instruments for the long term and as control.
In a further step, huge stimulus packages were launched markets return to normal behaviour patterns we expect to see to limit the damage, as economies slipped into recession.
by the end of the year most of the worlds equity markets had fallen by between 30% and 50%.
Our share price In the UK, the pound has weakened dramatically against Our share price has fallen significantly during the year and the dollar and the euro.
The UK economy continues to shrink after we ended 2008 down 42.1%, against a backdrop of dramatic 16 years of growth total government debt is now projected to falls in markets.
In 2008 we have outperformed FTSE 350-Life, grow by 50% to well over 1 trillion, which is nearly 60% of GDP.
Whilst we UK interest rates are at an all-time low and unemployment is rising underperformed the FTSE 100 which ended 2008 down 31.3%, fast, with some forecasters predicting three million out of work we fared better than most of our European counterparts.
There is no doubt that there is a disconnect between our current share price and the underlying value of the business.
This is true of many sectors, and while investors remain nervous it is likely to persist.
But customers continue to buy insurance, invest and save, with trusted brands like Aviva.
As a result our operating performance has improved in 2008.
You can read our summary financial statements including our operating performance on pages 24 to 25.
Aviva plc Annual Review 2008 05 What action have we taken towards achieving one Aviva, twice the value?
In the Asia Pacific region, where both incomes and life expectancy Managing our risk are on the rise, people are also looking for safe savings opportunities.
At Aviva, sound risk management is a key component of our Our new joint venture in South Korea takes us into the second business.
We had already made sensible investment decisions largest life insurance market in Asia.
before the credit crunch took hold.
While we had some default To stay ahead in growth markets, we must be inventive.
losses in the second half of the year on our exposure to AIG, Bancassurance, which offers people the convenience of buying Lehman, Bradford and Bingley, Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae insurance at local bank branches, is one of the foundations of our and Washington Mutual, these were within our limits of acceptable business in western Europe.
Were now successfully introducing risk.
Since then weve taken further steps to provide against the concept of bancassurance to customers across eastern Europe default risk.
Today we have more than 90 bancassurance In September 2007 we sold 3.4 billion of equities when partnerships around the world, generating nearly one quarter the FTSE Index was standing at 6,400.
Since then weve introduced of Aviva's long-term savings sales.
safeguards to protect ourselves from further significant falls on the This mix of activities is one of the key drivers of our success.
We continuously assess our overall exposure and We see life insurance, general insurance and asset management define the risks that were prepared to accept across the group.
as complementary parts of a business that can balance cash flow, Avivas capital management philosophy is focused on capital returns and long-term value for our shareholders, while bringing efficiency and effective risk management to support our dividend prosperity and peace of mind to our customers.
policy and earnings per share growth.
Rigorous capital allocation is one of our primary strategic priorities and is ultimately governed Making our business more transparent by the Group Executive Committee.
We have always been committed to improving the transparency We moved into 2009 with 2.0 billion of regulatory surplus of our business and so we became one of the early adopters of capital and even if the markets fell a further 40%, our IGD surplus a new way of reporting in 2008 Market Consistent Embedded would still be around 1.2 billion.
Were constantly looking to Value MCEV.
improve our capital structure and efficiency.
MCEV aims to improve transparency and comparability We have a strong balance sheet and strong liquidity.
in embedded value reporting across Europe.
Our current Standard & Poors group rating is AA-, or very strong.
We believe that it gives useful insight into the financial These ratings reflect our strong liquidity, competitive position, performance of the groups life and related businesses.
You can capital base, increasing underlying earnings and strategic and read more about MCEV reporting and how it affects our results operational management.
Valuing our customers Building a more efficient organisation We are building a culture that puts customers at the heart of One Aviva, twice the value also means a leaner, more efficient our business.
By really understanding what they need we can give organisation.
One of the benefits of being a truly global organisation them the best possible service and experience of Aviva and earn is that we can simplify systems, share services and IT, and streamline their long-term loyalty to the brand.
the running of all our businesses.
Were in the sixth year of a survey into customer attitudes In 2007 we announced a total cost reduction programme of to saving.
In 2008 we surveyed 28,500 people across 25 markets, 500 million.
The UK life business is on track to deliver 100 million bringing the total to over 100,000 responses since we started.
In the UK general insurance business, We also launched a challenge, the Customer Cup, in which we we have completed the first phase to deliver cost savings of invite teams from Avivas offices around the world to identify and 200 million in 2008.
Phase two of the transformation, announced implement ways of making a difference to customers and help in June 2008, is the creation of nine modern customer facing build customer loyalty.
centres of insurance expertise to deliver consistent first-class service.
Our regional structure is helping us to get closer to markets This, and associated initiatives, will deliver an extra 150 million and be more responsive to local opportunities and conditions.
in savings a year by the end of 2010.
A further 50 million cost We want Aviva customers to have all the benefits of a global savings will come from our European businesses.
organisation that shapes products to their varying needs and We are also simplifying our legacy systems.
In 2007, lifestyles, wherever they live.
we announced a deal with Swiss Re to outsource the administration Valuing our customers means giving them products and services of nearly three million Norwich Union Life policies.
This has already that they need and there are many successful examples throughout allowed us to decommission over 200 systems, and improve our the company.
This year in the UK for example, weve launched a service both to IFAs and policyholders.
Well tell customers our competitors However, cutting costs is not without impact, sadly and most prices for motor insurance against our own, even if the alternatives notably on our people.
There have been some redundancies this are cheaper.
They can also check their existing cover with other year, but these decisions have been made to ensure the ongoing insurers against comparable cover from Norwich Union.
In the development of the business.
savings market we are giving customers a fairer deal with a new pricing system for annuities which uses postcodes to reflect their lifestyles and circumstances more accurately.
Aviva plc 06 Annual Review 2008 Group chief executives perspective continued What have we achieved?
Highlights of the year 3,358m Delivered life and pension new business sales ahead of analyst MCEV operating profit before tax expectations with a second consecutive record year in the UK Turbulent financial markets have had an impact on our profit before tax but operating profit, over which Improved our Financial Adviser Service awards rating to four stars we have more direct control, is 10% up on 2007. in UK life and pensions business Achieved target of doubling sales in our US life business a year 2.0bn ahead of plan IGD solvency surplus Worldwide general insurance combined operating ratio improved Aviva has a strong capital position.
Insurers are required to hold a financial buffer over and above statutory to 98% 2007: 100% solvency levels, known as the capital resource requirement.
Voted General Insurer of the Year in the UK at the Insurance The IGD surplus is the amount of capital held in addition to this regulatory requirement.
Times Awards for the sixth year running RAC was voted by JD Power as the best Roadside Assistance provider in the UK for the third year running 50m Number of customers Won Life Company of the Year at the AFA Plan for Life awards Despite the tough economic climate in 2008 our overall in Australia customer base has grown.
In Asia Pacific we launched joint ventures in South Korea and Taiwan and we Maintained our number one ranking in both fixed indexed annuities expanded our distribution network in China.
Weve also and fixed indexed life insurance markets in the US Life business seen an increase in customers in central and eastern Europe where our businesses have performed well.
Completed the acquisition of VIVAS Health in Ireland Signed new bancassurance deals in Spain, Poland, Turkey and Italy 33.00p Maintained good growth in China with a 66% increase following Dividend per share significant expansion of our distribution network In an environment of low interest rates, dividends are important to shareholders.
Weve maintained our dividend Expanded our distribution footprint through new joint ventures in line with 2007 while balancing the requirements of in South Korea and Taiwan coming on-line our investors and the need to maintain capital to develop the business.
Successfully launched Aviva Investors, our global asset management business Maintained a strong capital and liquidity position.
4bn 2.0 billion and direct access to 1.4 billion of liquid assets with Worldwide sales Sales were up in 2008 with growth in both life and further 2.1 billion of undrawn committed credit facilities pensions sales and general insurance and health net written premiums.
This was offset by lower sales Embarked on the global rebranding programme with Norwich Union of investment products reflecting the volatility experienced to become Aviva in 2009.
Poland and Ireland to complete rebrand in financial markets during the year.
in 2010 Early adoption of market consistent embedded value MCEV 486p methodology for our long-term savings business Net asset value per share NAV is one of the key ratios analysts use for measuring the value of a company and contrasts with our share price which closed at 390p on 31 December.
I want you to be strong Remember whose money it is Aviva plc Annual Review 2008 07 Whats next?
I want you to be strong I want to be more than just a target market I want you to be strong Dont forget me Economic outlook Our strategy We moved into 2009 in the midst of a recession.
Industrial Although the outlook is challenging, our strategic objectives remain production and corporate profits are falling sharply and clear and relevant.
Some of these objectives have already been met.
Economic growth is expected North America is a great example where we have already reached to be extremely poor in 2009 but is likely to recover in 2010 led by our target a year ahead of schedule.
In these areas well be setting the US and China.
From start to finish the recession is likely to cut new and challenging targets for the year to come.
Looking out beyond 2009, with no In the current economic climate, performing in line with the return to normal lending and a sustained rise in savings, we expect market is a realistic aim.
Our priority will be to maintain our capital economic growth to be very subdued over the next cycle.
strength by making the most efficient and profitable investment choices.
By doing this we expect to emerge from the current climate Whats next for our markets?
Well place less emphasis over the coming year on top-line Looking ahead we expect the UK and European markets to sales targets, though we will maintain a strong presence in each of remain subdued in 2009.
In North America, sales of indexed our markets.
In our general insurance business we remain committed annuity products will not grow as fast as they did in 2008, to meeting or beating our target of 98% COR for the group.
but this is set against very strong growth over the past two years.
We are confident that by adhering to our strategy and our In the Asia Pacific markets we anticipate steady growth in the major vision to create one Aviva, twice the value, we have the greatest economies, although investors are likely to be more cautious.
opportunity for success in the present climate.
We do expect to see growth returning to our bancassurance business as the banks concentrate on their retail operations and bancassurance becomes even more important to them.
At a time when some banks are facing huge difficulties, we continue to do business in this area.
Aviva plc 08 Annual Review 2008 Group structure Executive management team Andrew Moss Philip Scott Mark Hodges John Ainley Amanda Mackenzie Anupam Sahay Group chief executive Chief financial officer Executive director, Group human Chief marketing officer Group strategy and Chief executive resources director development director Norwich Union Life Igal Mayer Alain Dromer Andrea Moneta Tom Godlasky Simon Machell Chief executive, Chief executive, Chief executive, Chief executive, Chief executive, Norwich Union Aviva Investors Aviva Europe Aviva North America Aviva Asia Pacific General Insurance 18 19 More on employees and responsibility l 10 11 More on our global brand l 12 13 More on group strategy l 16 17 More on regional overviews l UK Europe North America Asia Pacific Aviva plc Annual Review 2008 09 Contribution to Total sales group sales MCEV operating profit IFRS operating profit UK 18,756m 1 37% 1,509m 1,377m Europe 21,844m 2 42% 1,925m 1,141m North America 7,316m 3 14% 334m 149m Asia Pacific 3,499m 4 7% 69m 36m Aviva Investors 41m 114m 1 4 3 51.4bn Total Group sales 2 What we do Employees and locations Aviva Investors In the UK we are a leading provider of life, pensions, 28,424 investment, general insurance and health products 2007: 32,872 to more than 20 million customers.
We also provide roadside assistance through the RAC.
Products are Our life and general insurance businesses are based in distributed via a number of channels including IFAs, York and Norwich respectively, with operations spread brokers, corporate partners and direct to customers across the UK.
We also have overseas operations in India via the internet.
Currently trading as Norwich Union, and Sri Lanka we are rebranding to Aviva during 2009.
What we do Employees and locations We operate in 15 countries across Europe and are 16,501 the second largest insurer in the region, providing life, 2007: 15,989 general and health insurance products to more than 20 million customers.
Customers are served through a diverse Belgium Italy Romania What we do set of distribution channels, including banks, brokers, Czech Republic Ireland Russia Aviva Investors is a global asset management agents, direct sales force, telephone and the internet.
France Lithuania Slovakia business dedicated to building and providing our Our ability to operate across distribution channels allows Germany Netherlands Spain clients with focused investment solutions.
Our client us to meet different customer preferences and respond Hungary Poland Turkey base ranges from among the largest financial to market developments.
institutions to individuals investing for the future.
We operate under a single brand in 15 countries so our clients benefit not only from our unique access to, and experience of, our local markets but also What we do Employees and locations from our ability to leverage an infrastructure that Our North America region is comprised of two distinct 5,627 comes with global representation.
In Aviva USA we provide a comprehensive 2007: 4,634 portfolio of life insurance and annuity products to more than one million customers in all 50 states through Canada Employees and locations independent agents and brokers.
Through Aviva Canada, United States we market a wide range of conventional personal and 1,298 commercial lines insurance to more than three million 2007: 967 customers using brokers and affinity groups.
Australia Ireland Singapore Canada Italy Spain China Luxembourg Taiwan France Poland United Kingdom What we do Employees and locations Germany Romania United States We have been present in Asia Pacific for over 100 years 2,376 and today operate in nine markets across this region.
2007: 2,052 We are particularly focused on providing long-term savings products through a multi-channel distribution Australia India South Korea strategy with particular strength in bancassurance and China Malaysia Sri Lanka wrap administration.
We also sell general insurance Hong Kong Singapore Taiwan products in Sri Lanka and Malaysia and are an established provider of health insurance in Singapore.
Aviva plc 10 Annual Review 2008 Our global brand The creation of a single global brand is a key part of delivering one Aviva, twice the value and the implications go far beyond changing the name on our brochures or signs.
We know that if we are to achieve our objective of being our customers most recommended brand we will be judged by what we do, not what we say.
Why were changing Why now?
Our start point was to ensure we had a real understanding Aviva already an established of what our customers want from us across the globe so and respected brand that we could build the brand around meeting their needs.
Customers in 21 markets across the world already know us as Throughout 2008 we never stopped listening to our customers.
Were market leaders in everything from bancassurance They told us in fact 3 4 of customers that it was the products in Europe and Asia, to Fixed Indexed Annuities in the USA.
and service they recieved that matters most.
To that end we And in 2008, our fund management operations around the created our brand promise of no one recognises you like Aviva world came together to form one single, global business, as across the globe customers expressed a strong need to be Aviva Investors.
We have also traded as Aviva plc since 2001. recognised for who they are, their situation and their needs.
Alongside this work, we also developed detailed plans to enable More impact with customers us to manage the name change in those markets that are yet to become Aviva.
Although the current market conditions are tough The creation of a single brand globally will mean we will be we took the decision to proceed with our plans.
We are a long able to improve the effectiveness of our marketing spend across term business and our growth will be achieved more successfully our businesses.
This means achieving greater impact for less by making the investment in our global brand.
As a business spend and be better placed to more effectively compete with we are in a sound capital position so what better time to make other strong global brands, such as Axa and Aegon.
the investment when we can benefit from the significant In addition, our commercial partners, shareholders, reduction in media costs and greater impact for those remaining regulators and customers, as well as our people, operate advertisers operating in a less cluttered market.
Further, it is well increasingly across national and cultural boundaries that once documented that those brands that continue to maintain their separated us.
Through ensuring that Aviva operates in a consistent profile in downturns significantly outperform their rivals when and integrated way across our markets will make it easier for markets recover.
people to do business with us.
Creating opportunities How we will make A strong global brand helps us to open doors as we enter new markets and secure new business partnerships.
This is about doing the name change things once and doing things right by utilising the best expertise from wherever it is across Aviva and applying it once for all our We are managing the change of name in a careful, considered markets.
This also means that good ideas whether for improved way appropriate for each market and it will take two years to service, new products or better ways of doing things are shared complete in full.
Our asset management business completed across all parts of the business.
the change to Aviva Investors in September 2008.
And at the Our people acting as a global team not only means ensuring end of the year we began to communicate the planned change we leverage our scale, expertise and ideas more effectively but of Norwich Union to Aviva in the UK, which will complete in it also opens up more opportunities for our people to develop June this year.
Poland and Ireland have also started their name and grow.
change process, moving to Commercial Union Aviva and Hibernian Aviva respectively as an initial step before adopting RAC and Delta Lloyd fully the Aviva name.
Two major brands will remain unchanged: RAC in the UK is Recognising our customers a leader in a specialist market with very high levels of trust and recognition among its members that are specific to its roadside Throughout the name change our key priority is to ensure we recovery heritage.
In the Benelux countries, Delta Lloyds keep our customers, corporate partners and brokers in all these governance means that it operates more independently than markets well informed.
Moving to Aviva creates an opportunity our other businesses and so will not take part in the change.
to give our customers a clear sense of our scale and financial strength and of how they will benefit in the future.
But it is also an opportunity to remind them how central we know they are to the continued success of our business.
Aviva plc Annual Review 2008 11 So at the heart of moving to a global brand is our commitment to creating a strong, unied business that understands what our customers need and is organised in a way that can deliver consistently.
This means using our resources and expertise from across Aviva to create ways of delivering prosperity and peace of mind for all our customers, wherever they are around the globe.
What the change will mean to our customers This also makes good economic sense: we will be able to remove Who are Aviva, duplication across a wide range of activities and remove costs from the business, to the benefit of our shareholders and investors.
and what do they stand for?
We plan to recoup the cost of the name change in two years and then to deliver significant benefits.
to our shareholders and investors Our business has its roots in the 300 year old heritage of Norwich Union, Commercial Union and General Accident and we have built our business on helping and supporting our customers, protecting their goods, properties and their families and providing for their futures.
We are just as committed now as we have always been.
Through the creation of a single global brand we will be better placed to ensure we are using all our resources from across Case study: Aviva, in the most effective way, to improve service and develop UK councils products that better meet our customers needs.
to our employees During 2008 we created advisory councils We make the same promise to our employees as we do to our formed of customers and commercial customers.
We respect and value our colleagues and recognise the partners around the UK, in addition to our contribution they make towards meeting the needs of our customers.
These councils provided us with a real understanding of what the brand change would mean for them and how we could best communicate the change.
We also consulted the councils on the impact of the credit crunch and onset of recession which informed our final communications plans.
We will continue to work with customer councils to help inform future product and service developments and of course we share the learnings from the councils with colleagues across our markets too.
How do the benefits warrant the costs?
Case study: Commercial benefits In the UK we used detailed modelling to increase the efficiency of our media spend.
The initial stage of building awareness of Norwich Union moving to Aviva has delivered well against the targets set, putting us ahead of our plan.
Acting as a single brand we have been able to minimise the cost of producing high profile, high impact advertising by sharing work across markets.
Aviva plc 12 Annual Review 2008 Group strategy Our purpose is to deliver prosperity and peace of mind to our customers.
We will do this by realising our vision: one Aviva, twice the value.
2008 was a very challenging year for the world economy, especially for the financial sector, characterised by slow growth and extreme market volatility, with most major economies contracting towards the end of the year.
Throughout this period we have remained focused on our vision and made steady progress against the five strategic priorities we set in 2007 shown below.
2008 progress Manage composite portfolio The composite model provided us with strength in a challenging economic environment, allowing us to adapt profitably.
In 2008 we actively managed We are fully committed to maintaining the composite the composite portfolio, specifically: nature of the group.
We firmly believe in the benefits of Continued the transformation of our UK and Canadian GI businesses life insurance, general insurance and asset management Realised more value from our life and pensions businesses as complementary parts of an overall business model that Maintained our leading position in UK and Europe balances cash flow, returns and long-term value creation, Doubled sales in US, a year ahead of plan and delivers prosperity and peace of mind to customers.
Strengthened our position in Asia and Emerging Europe Launched Aviva Investors see below 2008 progress Build global asset management Launched Aviva Investors as a global business under one brand, leveraging the resources of several of Avivas established asset management businesses Launched in September 2008, Aviva Investors is a clear Built an experienced executive team, bringing together talent from our example of the one Aviva, twice the value strategy in businesses worldwide action.
Integrating our global asset management businesses Reshaped the investment model, separating investment portfolios that benefit under one umbrella, Aviva Investors is now a leading asset from global scale and reach from those that leverage local market knowledge manager, operating in 15 countries with 236 billion of Created a scalable infrastructure for launching new products and driving funds under management.
We plan to grow Aviva Investors cross-border sales and significantly increase its contribution to group profits.
2008 progress Allocate capital rigorously Maintained a strong capital position under tough market conditions Proactively managed our balance sheet, including reducing and hedging Capital management will continue to be a key focus.
equity exposure Capital is treated as a scarce resource, and is allocated Strengthened our credit management and risk systems to provide the highest sustainable returns for shareholders.
Maintained strong liquidity and cash flow position We continuously seek improvements in capital structure Moved to market consistent embedded value MCEV to enhance decision and efficiency.
making on value and profitability 2008 progress Increase customer reach Commenced migration to a single Aviva brand and created a global marketing function see page 10 We sell our products in 28 countries in ways that our Introduced a consistent measure to track customer advocacy and drive improvements customers choose to buy them.
We will get closer to in customer experience our customers through better understanding of their needs Reinforced the FSAs Treating Customers Fairly principles in every aspect of our business and by providing products and services that customers Expanded significantly in our existing markets, particularly the US, China and Poland want.
We will continue looking for the right distribution Commenced operations in South Korea and Taiwan in the right markets.
Our move to a global brand is key to achieving our goals.
2008 progress Boost productivity Achieved 340 million annualised cost savings in UK GI, UK Life and Europe On track to meet our 2009 cost saving targets We constantly look for ways to boost our productivity, Increased our cost saving target from 350 million to 500 million to support sustainable growth, increase our competitiveness, Increased use of shared services, both regionally expanded Singapore hub, improve our services, and deliver higher value to our UK cost savings and functionally group-wide approach to functions such customers.
Working together as one Aviva, we deliver as procurement and HR operational excellence through shared services, shared knowledge, rationalised systems and effective outsourcing.
Aviva plc Annual Review 2008 13 In 2009, we will continue to drive the group strategy, while adapting our short-term tactics in response to current recessionary conditions.
In particular we are focused on capital, profitability and productivity over volume growth and we have strengthened our commitment to understanding and responding to the needs of our customers and partners during these turbulent times.
2008 measurement indicator 2009 priorities Summary of regional Manage GI for value and cash flow and exercise price IFRS operating profit split by business line strategic priorities discipline and leadership 100 1% 5% 5% 6% 4% 58% 61% 53% 40% 37% Drive profitable growth and long-term value creation Aviva Investors 80 from the life and pensions business Globally integrated business 60 Grow our asset management business see below 57% 56% Transform the investment model 40 42% 41% Increase third party business FM 34% 20 GI Life 0 UK 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Market leadership Address legacy 2008 measurement indicator 2009 priorities Transform business model Continue to drive investment performance Funds under management Exploit UK synergies Become a provider of solutions to address individual 400 client requirements by leveraging all internal capabilities Generate capital 356 300 Increase penetration in existing markets and enter new, 335 304 high potential growth markets 200 Europe Expand our third-party business and increase Scale, growth, capital cross-border sales 100 Seize unique growth opportunities Further develop effective global core business processes 0 and infrastructure Leverage scale 2006 2007 2008 Generate capital 2008 measurement indicator 2009 priorities North America Maintain strong balance sheet IGD surplus 5 year trend 2.0 Optimise business mix, growth and margin 4 Monitor and manage market and operational risks in a volatile environment Generate net capital returns Allocate capital to the highest risk-adjusted return Contribute to doubling IFRS EPS by 2012 3 opportunities by country, business line and product 1.5 2 Asia Pacific IGD surplus Scale, growth Cover 1 1.0 Prioritised portfolio 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Regional operating model Investment required 2009 priorities 2008 measurement indicator Rebrand to Aviva in the UK by the end of 2009 and Businesses performance vs local benchmark target in Ireland and Poland by the end of 2010 100 Implement a variety of initiatives, to improve customer 80 experience and support the new brand promise 60 % missed Continue to build access to customers through our benchmark 40 or target multi-channel approach % at or 20 above Increase customer retention and overall marketing benchmark effectiveness group-wide or target 0 Performance vs local Performace vs target market average no current benchmark benchmark available 2009 priorities 2008 measurement indicator Execute our shared services strategy, including: Cost savings 1,000 Globally consistent operating models for corporate functions eg IT, HR, Finance, Risk and Marketing 800 Tailored use of shared services for regional operations, 600 including UK, Asia and Europe 400 Increased use of outsourcing and offshoring 200 Improve productivity across all lines of business 0 Actively reduce costs in mature markets, notably the UK Achieved Achieved Expected in Total to 2007 in 2008 2009 2010 Total funds managed by Aviva managers.
m bn % % bn Cover times Aviva plc 14 Annual Review 2008 Key performance indicators In 2008, the groups strategy was underpinned by focusing on a number of key financial performance measures.
The key measures that are used to assess performance at a group level are set out below: Earnings per share IFRS Earnings per share 100 80 60 To demonstrate our commitment to our vision of one Aviva twice the value, we announced our ambition in February 2008 to double IFRS earnings per share 40 by 2012.
This ambition is based on total IFRS return, including investment volatility 20 and non-operating items over the weighted average number of shares.
0 Our IFRS earnings per share for 2008 was a loss of 36.8 pence 2007 restated: 20 48.9 profit.
This reflects the net adverse short-term fluctuations and economic assumption changes due to adverse market movement, continued investment 40 in developing the business and strengthening our provisions for latent claims.
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Proposed ordinary dividend per share Proposed ordinary dividend and dividend cover per share and dividend cover 35 2.5 30 Our intention is to increase the total dividend on a basis judged prudent using 2.0 25 a dividend cover in the 1.5 to 2.0 times range as a guide, while retaining capital 20 1.5 to support future business growth.
15 Our board has recommended a final dividend of 19.91 pence per share 1.0 2007: 21.10 pence bringing the total dividend for the year to 33.00 pence.
10 Dividend 0.5 The total dividend has been maintained in line with 2007. Dividend cover is 5 Dividend 1.9 times 2007: 1.6 times within our target range.
cover 0 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Group IFRS and MCEV operating profit Group operating profit 3,500 before tax 3,000 2,500 We aim to achieve steady sustainable growth in our operating profit, both on a MCEV and IFRS basis.
In seeking to achieve this growth, we continue to adopt strict financial 2,000 management disciplines underpinned by strong corporate governance.
1,500 In 2008 we delivered strong MCEV operating profit at 3,358 million, up 10% 1,000 against 2007 and IFRS operating profit of 2,297 million, up 4% against the prior 500 year.
These results reflect higher life and general insurance results offset by lower fund MCEV IFRS management returns.
0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Dividend cover is measured on operating earnings after tax on an IFRS basis, expressed as a multiple of the ordinary dividend in respect of the financial year.
Group MCEV operating profit is calculated using long-term savings operating profit on a MCEV basis before the impairment of goodwill.
Group IFRS operating profit is calculated using long-term savings operating profit on an IFRS basis before the impairment of goodwill.
Prior years presented on an EEV basis.
m Pence Dividend pence Dividend cover times Aviva plc Annual Review 2008 15 Long-term savings new business sales Long-term savings new 45 40 business sales 35 Total new business sales, including investment sales, increased by 1% in 2008 to 30 40,278 million 2007: 39,705 million with growth in life and pension sales being 25 offset by a fall in the sales of investment products.
As a global group with 67% of our 20 long-term savings sales coming from outside the UK we have benefited from currency 15 movements in the year, mainly the appreciation of the euro and US dollar.
However, Investment 10 sales while we have already met the target to double sales in North America a year earlier than 5 Life and pension sales planned, in the current economic climate top-line sales growth targets are not our priority.
0 In 2009 we aim to maintain a strong franchise in each of our markets, but with an 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 increased emphasis on capital efficiency.
We will aim to perform in line with the market, but will prioritise profitability and efficient use of capital.
Return on equity shareholders funds Return on equity 16 shareholders capital 14 12 Return on equity shareholders capital is calculated as after-tax operating return, 10 before adjusting items, on opening equity shareholders funds, including life profits 8 on a market consistent embedded value MCEV basis.
The improvement in 2008 to 6 11.0% 2007 restated: 10.4% reflects the increase in post-tax MCEV operating return, partly offset by an increase in opening shareholders funds of 2.6 billion.
4 2 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Aviva climate survey results 2008 Aviva climate survey results 2008 Employee engagement Employee engagement 80 80 and leadership and leadership 70 70 60 60 Our global employee climate survey continues to pr Our global employee climate survey continues to provide measur ovide measures of employee engagement and es of employee engagement 50 50 leadership.
Employee engagement r epresents the degr epresents the degr ee to which people believe in A ee to which people believe in A viva being a viva 40 gr being a gr eat place to work and ar eat place to work and ar e contributing to help meet our collective goals and ambitions.
e contributing to help meet our collective goals and ambitions.
40 30 The survey r The survey results ar esults are used each year to determine and implement actions with the aim of e used each year to determine and implement actions with the aim 30 achieving continuous impr of achieving continuous impr ovement.
The climate survey measur ovement.
The climate survey measur es employees per es employees per ceptions of ceptions of 20 20 leadership, verifying alignment with our strategic dir leadership, verifying alignment with our strategic direction and immediate business plans.
Our aim ection and immediate business plans.
Our aim 10 Engagement 10 Engagement is to impr is to improve both measur ove both measures over time and meet or exceed a global financial services benchmark.
es over time and meet or exceed a global financial services benchmark.
Leadership Leadership 0 0 In 2008 we saw impr In 2008 we saw improvements in every ar ovements in every area of the survey including A ea of the survey including Aviva vivas leadership, s leadership, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2005 2006 2007 2008 understanding of company values and levels of engagement.
Mor understanding of company values and levels of engagement.
More employees said they felt mor e employees said they felt e customer focused and empower more customer focused and empower ed in the workplace.
A wareness of A wareness of A vivas diversity policies and vivas diversity practices was also higher and mor policies and practices was also higher and mor e employees felt that their talents wer e employees felt that their talents wer e being managed e being ef managed ef fectively by their managers.
Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction All business units measure and track progress in customer advocacy, and, where feasible, benchmark performance against local competitors.
Aviva is committed to implementing a consistent measure of customer advocacy across the group, Net Promoter Score NPS.
Overall, 17 businesses carried out an overall NPS survey in 2008.
For those that also benchmarked, eight businesses were at or exceeded the market average, with two placed in the upper quartile, and four scored below the market average.
For those businesses that unable to conduct a benchmark survey, four businesses' scores met or exceeded their targets and one missed.
Our UK Life, UK GI and Canadian business are transitioning across to NPS in 2009.
In the UK, the life business met its broker satisfaction target, UK GI achieved its direct customer satisfaction target at 94% and our RAC business continued to receive very high levels of customer satisfaction 98%.
ROE % bn % satisfied % satisfied Aviva plc 16 Annual Review 2008 Divisional summary The group is managed on a regional basis with a clear set of strategic priorities for each region.
The market background and performance of each region is set out below.
More details can be found in our website.
What action have we taken?
Global financial markets in turmoil Consolidated our fund management business under Aviva Investors Global banking crisis, frozen credit markets and falling equity and property markets As a global business we can provide our clients with focused investment solutions Investors look for security Risk management Government bonds and guaranteed products perform well in volatile market conditions Group risk management culture gives significant competitive advantages Stimulus packages provided by governments Protecting our clients Interest rate cuts and tax incentives to stimulate spending We took action to improve transparency for our clients in liquidity funds Economies around the world slipping into recession Global research US and UK moved into official recession in fourth quarter of 2008 We launched a global research centre that will allow collaboration and sharing of information worldwide UK Whats happening?
Economic downturn Maintained market share Global economic crisis and the onset of a recession Life and Pensions market share increased to 11.3% Savings ratio to the lowest level since the 1940s Operational excellence Significant decline in consumers confidence as value of investments fall Outsourced administration of 1 million policies to Swiss Re Regulatory changes Achieved four stars in the Financial Adviser Service awards Capital gains tax and value added tax VAT changes Launched financial adviser academy in advance of Retail Distribution Review recommendations Level of creditor business impacted by the Financial Services Authoritys reviews Significant progress made on our GI transformation programme to deliver true operational excellence of payment protection insurance Focus on profit Review by FSA of retail distribution Improved our price competitiveness and introduced sophisticated pricing techniques Europe Whats happening?
Aging populations approaching retirement age Focused on our products, distribution and our customers needs Baby boomer generations need services that fund retirement and care We have adjusted our products to meet our customers altered needs Cross border sales from Hungary to Slovakia have increased our geographical coverage Economic and market turbulence across Europe We have explained to customers most affected by market volatility what is happening Bancassurance sales impacted as banks seek to increase liquidity and capital in the market and how it impacts them Demand for trusted and secure asset classes as consumers reduce their risk appetite Mergers and Acquisitions Market harmonisation across the region Acquisition of VIVAS Health in Ireland and new joint venture arrangements in Poland Converging regulations, cross-border bank and broker consolidation and an increasing global nature of financial markets.
Introduced a new senior management team and pan European structure North America What action have we taken?
Industry changes Focused on customer needs Severe credit exposure in the second half of 2008 Aviva Canada launched Lets Change Insurance brand campaign and Security and Exchange Commission reclassifies equity indexed annuities as securities Claims Service Guarantee Steady consolidation of highly fragmented general insurance business in Canada Wellness for Life programme in the US Demographic changes Optimised regional business model Baby boomer generation need household savings and insurance products Implemented a major change programme in the highly competitive personal lines market that Significant population increases and economic development in Western Canada has streamlined and standardised underwriting Initiated efficiency improvements and expense reduction programmes Asia Pacific Whats happening?
Investors confidence has fallen Leveraged bancassurance expertise in new and emerging markets Local stock markets significantly affected by the global economic crisis New bancassurance partnerships have been formed in India and China Sales of investment and investment-linked products have been negatively affected Focused on developing successful bancassurance partnerships with our JV partners in new markets of Malaysia, Taiwan and South Korea Prospect for continued growth across the region Low insurance penetration, an aging population and high GDP growth Realising synergies across the region Fast-growing bancassurance channel in the emerging markets of China and India Substantial investment made to expand our distribution network and optimise our shared service model into high growth potential and new markets Developing and retaining talent Launched a series of initiatives to build our employee brand and develop our top leaders Aviva plc Annual Review 2008 17 What have we achieved?
Funds under management MCEV operating profit Our medium-term targets are to: Complete the integration of our business across the world 236bn 41m Transform the business model 2007: 235bn 2007 restated: 64m Increase our third party business Grow contribution to group profits IFRS operating profit 114m 2007 restated: 147m What have we achieved?
Total sales MCEV operating profit Our medium-term targets are to: Continue to transform our business model 18,756m 1,509m Exploit the synergies of our separate UK business 2007 restated: 20,445m 2007 restated: 1,225m Generate capital for the group PVNBP 11,858m IFRS operating profit Investment sales 1,485m 1,377m Net written premiums 5,413m 2007 restated: 1,126m 18,756m What have we achieved?
Total sales MCEV operating profit Our medium-term targets are to: Seize unique growth opportunities 21,844m 1,925m Leverage our scale across the region 2007 restated: 20,488m 2007 restated: 1,921m Generate capital PVNBP 16,990m IFRS operating profit Investment sales 764m 1,141m Net written premiums 4,090m 2007 restated: 1,197m 21,844m What have we achieved?
Total sales MCEV operating profit Our medium-term targets are to: Optimise business mix, growth and margin 7,316m 334m Generate capital for the group 2007 restated: 5,058 2007 restated: 274m PVNBP 5,715m IFRS operating profit Net written premiums 1,601m 149m 7,316m 2007 restated: 229m What have we achieved?
Total sales MCEV operating profit Our medium term targets are to: Prioritise our portfolio 3,499m 69m Develop the regional operating model 2007 restated: 4,283m 2007 restated: 101m Invest in the markets with the best opportunities PVNBP 1,720m IFRS operating profit Investment sales 1,746m 36m Net written premiums 33m 2007 restated: 37m 3,499m Aviva plc 18 Annual Review 2008 People and responsibility Our People and Corporate Responsibility strategies promote the delivery of the Aviva purpose and vision.
We work on getting great people to join Aviva and stay and engaging all 54,000 Aviva employees on corporate responsibility.
We help our businesses embed best practice in CR and take a leading role in our industry to share our successes and challenges.
Our aim is to make good business a part of everyones thinking so that together we can make sure Aviva is responsible in everything we do.
Governance and strategy Engaging with our stakeholders The Aviva Corporate Responsibility CR programme encompasses our business ethics and values, our customers, our people and Dialogue with a wide range of internal and external stakeholders, suppliers, our community relations and the environment.
When using a variety of feedback mechanisms from surveys to one-to-one conditions are adverse, as in the current economic downturn meetings, is an essential part of our business strategy.
We also being experienced by businesses and customers globally, its more participate in industry-wide forums and work with professional important than ever to maintain our reputation as an employer institutions to develop our research and understanding in key of choice and a responsible corporate citizen.
This means responding subject areas.
It also means staying focused on important goals that will contribute towards long-term prosperity Diversity, equality and human rights and peace of mind for our customers.
The Aviva principles and policies embody the key tenets of respect, valuing differences and inclusion and are aligned with the Our people United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights UNUDHR.
To become one Aviva and deliver twice the valuewe are In fact, our programmes have been recognised as going above reinforcing our external brand of recognising our customers as and beyond the level of activity of many companies to ensure individuals.
To ensure that this is how all our customers experience respect, fairness and equality among our employees.
Aviva we have embarked on a global programme to create a Representation of female colleagues within the senior culture where this lives and breathes internally so our employees management group increased from 22% in 2007 to 28% are truly recognised as individuals and for their contribution to in 2008.
We have appointed the first female member to our Avivas success.
executive committee this year, and we now have three women on the board.
Amanda Mackenzie joined the executive committee in March 2008 as chief marketing officer.
Rita Dhut and Siobhan Boylan from Aviva Investors were named in Financial News100 Most Influential Women.
Community As a responsible business, we are committed to helping address challenges facing people and society.
Globally, Aviva invested 9.6 million in community and charitable programmes in 2008.
Our community investment is focused on financial literacy, education and life trauma subjects which are closely aligned with our business and where we can maximise our expertise and resources to make a difference.
In addition to this core programme, we also Case study: respond to humanitarian crises, as and when they arise, through our partnership with Oxfam.
How we invest takes different forms: Conducting our from directly funding carefully selected initiatives in partnership business openly with charitable organisations, to creating a workplace where Clear and transparent communication employee volunteering and giving is enabled and supported.
about how we conduct our business is With this in mind, our colleagues can now apply for up to three a fundamental principle.
As a result, our businesses around the remuneration report in the annual report world have seen a significant increase in community volunteering and accounts was recognised as such, among their people.
by winning the 2008 Building Public Trust award.
These prestigious awards celebrate the best of corporate reporting by the UKs leading quoted companies and public sector bodies.
The judges found Avivas approach to be great reporting and innovative, describing the report as a very clear summary of remuneration policy.
The judges believe winners are helping to set the standards of excellence in reporting that all organisations can aim for.
com csr Aviva plc Annual Review 2008 19 As a global insurer, we take pride in understanding the specific needs of our customers, wherever they are in the world.
In India, we have developed a range of financial products and services to Case study: help the underprivileged and combat poverty.
Offsetting our carbon emissions Suppliers As part of our climate change strategy, We understand the importance of responsible business practices within the supply chain and recognise the influence that our we retrospectively offset our outstanding carbon.
In rural areas of East Africa we organisation can have.
This year we have developed our position by chairing the Financial Services Purchasing Forum CSR sub-group have joined forces with co2balance to replace the use of open fires for cooking which aims to promote a coordinated and standardised approach to managing CR issues in the supply chain.
Ethical, social and with energy efficient stoves.
As well as providing 70% more energy efficiency, environmental considerations are already part of our procurement processes: we give each new supplier in the UK a minimum there are social and economic benefits.
More efficient stoves means less wood is 10% CR weighting when reviewing new tender submissions.
burnt, so helping to prevent deforestation.
And as the stoves are built within the villages employment is created in local areas.
com csr Environment Our environment strategy focuses on working within our spheres of control, influence and concern.
Within our sphere of control we manage our own impact and use of resources including electricity, gas, water and waste.
We are also committed to using our influence as an investor to encourage other organisations to adopt responsible strategies.
Finally, we aim to promote environmentally aware choices Case study: among individuals, including our employees and customers.
Work on reducing our impact on the environment continued Global participation increased at pace this year.
We again reduced our carbon emissions by more to 74% efficient use of energy and by implementing alternatives to business 72% of employees consider Aviva travel such as our high definition video-conferencing facility.
To help us manage our impact we set global targets in 2008 to achieve reductions by 5% in carbon emissions and 2% in water.
Since we introduced our global climate When we compare our global operations performance to 2007 survey four years ago, employee on a like-for-like basis, our total emissions fell by 6.6%.
Overall, participation levels have risen and weve we achieved a group-wide reduction in carbon emissions of 3.3%, gathered valuable feedback on all areas our water consumption fell by 1.2%.
In 2008, we saw an increase in positive attitudes in every area Customers of the survey, compared to 2007, including Satisfied customers are a key measure of success and our Avivas leadership, understanding of company values and levels of engagement.
purpose, to provide prosperity and peace of mind, guides every interaction, from customer service to responsible selling and More employees said they felt more customer focused and empowered in the marketing.
Product innovation, to meet peoples changing life workplace.
Awareness of Avivas diversity needs, is an essential element in all our markets.
policies and practices was also higher In France, we are increasingly integrating CR principles into than 2007 and more employees felt that our products, and offer lower home and car insurance premiums to their talents were being managed customers who act more safely, and who make environmentally and effectively by their managers.
There are also incentives for our French policyholders to stop smoking and so reduce the risks to their health.
Visit Aviva CSR at In the Netherlands, Delta Lloyd and ING have launched the www.
com csr first insurance for automatic external defibrillators AEDs and this is at cost price.
This is in response to the Dutch Heart Foundations campaign on the importance of immediate resuscitation and the use of an AED in the event of a cardiac arrest.
Aviva plc 20 Annual Review 2008 Board of directors Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE Andrew Moss Chairman Group chief executive Age 66 Age 51 Appointed to the Board in January 2005 and became chairman Appointed to the Board in May 2004.
Joined as group finance in January 2006.
Currently an independent non-executive director director and became group chief executive in July 2007. of BG Group plc utility and Reed Elsevier plc publishing.
Previously director finance, risk management and operations Former chairman of Aegis Group plc media services and KPMG in Lloyds insurance and formerly held a number of senior International auditors, former deputy chairman of Group 4 management positions at HSBC plc banking.
Securicor plc security services, former member of the supervisory Member of the corporate social responsibility and nomination committees board of ABN AMRO N. V. banking and a former independent non-executive director of Young & Co. s Brewery plc drinks and AEA Technology plc commercial technology.
Chairman of the Board and nomination committee and member of the corporate social responsibility committee Philip Scott FIA Nikesh Arora Chief financial officer Independent non-executive director Age 55 Age 41 Appointed to the Board in May 2000 and became chief financial Appointed to the Board in July 2007.
Currently Senior Vice President, officer in July 2007.
Joined Norwich Union in 1973 and held a and President of Europe, Middle East and Africa Operations at number of senior positions before joining the Norwich Union Google consumer services.
Non-executive director of Bharti Airtel board in 1993.
Formerly, responsible for the groups insurance telecommunications.
Formerly chief marketing officer and a businesses outside Europe and Aviva Investors, the groups UK member of the management board at T-Mobile communications fund management operations.
Currently a non-executive director and held senior management positions at Deutsche Telekom of Diageo plc drinks and chairman of the European Insurance telecommunications, Fidelity Investments financial services CFO Forum.
and Putnam Investments financial services.
Member of the nomination and the risk and regulatory committees Mark Hodges Wim Dik Executive director Non-executive director Age 43 Age 70 Appointed to the Board in June 2008.
Joined Norwich Union in Appointed to the Board in December 1999.
Currently chairman of January 1991 and held a number of senior roles within the finance the supervisory board of Ziggo Holdings B. V. telecommunications, function before becoming finance director of Norwich Union a non-executive director of Unilever N. V. and Unilever plc consumer, Insurance in 1998 and managing director of Norwich Union of LogicaCMG plc computer services and vice-chairman of Stage Insurance in 2005.
Appointed chief executive of Norwich Union Life, Entertainment B. V. entertainment.
Former Minister for Foreign the groups long-term savings business in the UK, in April 2006.
A former chairman of Nederlandse Unilever Bedrijven B. V. consumer and former chairman and chief executive officer of KPN Royal Dutch Telecom telecommunications.
A former chairman of the supervisory board of Holland Casino gaming and of Tele Atlas N. V. information systems, a former member of the supervisory boards of TNT Post Group mail services and ABN AMRO N. V. banking.
Member of the corporate social responsibility and the risk and regulatory committees Aviva plc Annual Review 2008 21 Mary Francis CBE Carole Piwnica Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Age 60 Age 51 Appointed to the Board in October 2005.
Currently senior Appointed to the Board in May 2003.
Currently a member of the independent director of Centrica plc utilities, a non-executive New York and Paris bars, a director of Naxos UK private equity and director of St Mowden Properties plc property development and a non-executive director of Toepfer International GmbH trading, a director of Almeida Theatre Company Limited.
A senior adviser Dairy Crest Group plc dairy foods and a member of the biotech to Chatham House and Governor of the Pensions Policy Institute.
advisory board of Monsanto biotechnology.
Former non-executive Formerly Director General of the Association of British Insurers, nondirector and vice-chairman of governmental affairs for Tate & Lyle plc executive director of the Bank of England, Alliance & Leicester plc agricultural industrial and a non-executive director of S A Spadel banking and Fund Distribution Limited and a senior civil servant.
N. V. food and beverages and former chairman of Amylum Group agricultural industrial.
Chairman of the risk and regulatory committee and a member of the audit and remuneration committees Chairman of the corporate social responsibility committee and member of the remuneration committee Richard Karl Goeltz Russell Walls Senior independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Age 66 Age 65 Appointed to the Board in May 2004.
Currently a non-executive Appointed to the Board in May 2004.
Currently non-executive director of the Warnaco Group Inc clothing and the New Germany director of Signet Jewelers Ltd retail and chairman of its audit Fund investment trust, the Central Europe and Russia Fund committee, non-executive director of Delphic Diagnostics Limited investment trust, the European Equity Fund investment trust and medical and treasurer and trustee of The British Red Cross.
a governor of The London School of Economics and Political Science.
Former group finance director of BAA plc transport, Wellcome plc Former chief financial officer of American Express Company pharmaceuticals and Coats Viyella plc textiles.
Former senior financial services and NatWest Group plc banking.
Former independent non-executive director of Stagecoach Group plc non-executive director of Delta Air Lines, Inc transport and Federal transport and Hilton Group plc leisure and a former non-executive Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Freddie Mac financial services director of the Mersey Docks and Harbour Company transport.
and a former member of the Accounting Standards Board UK.
Chairman of the audit committee and a member of the nomination and the risk and regulatory committees.
Member of the audit and nomination committees Euleen Goh Scott Wheway Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Age 53 Age 42 Appointed to the Board in January 2009.
Currently a non-executive Appointed to the Board in December 2007.
Former director of director of Singapore Airlines Limited transport, MediaCorp Pte Ltd The Boots Company plc now known as The Boots Company broadcasting, DBS Bank Limited, DBS Group Holdings Ltd banking Limited pharmacy and managing director of Boots the Chemist at and the Singapore Exchange Limited.
Former Chief Executive Officer Alliance Boots plc.
Formerly held a number of senior management of Standard Chartered Bank in Singapore banking.
positions at Tesco plc retail services.
Member of the audit and corporate social responsibility committees Chairman of the remuneration committee and member of the corporate social responsibility committee Graham Jones Group company secretary Aviva plc 22 Annual Review 2008 Summary financial statements These statements are aimed at giving shareholders a summary of the Dividend position and performance of Aviva.
They do not however, contain all The directors are recommending a final dividend of 19.91pence per the information to allow as complete an understanding of the group share 2007: 21.10 pence, which together with the interim dividend as would be provided by the full audited Annual Report and of 13.09 pence paid on 17 November 2008 2007: 11.90 pence, Accounts.
A copy of the full Annual Report and Accounts, which produces a total dividend for the year of 33.00 pence per share contains an unqualified auditors opinion, is available on the Aviva 2007: 33.00 pence.
The total cost of ordinary dividends paid in 2008, internet site at www.
com reports or free of charge from was 902 million 2007: 801 million.
The final dividend for 2008 will Equiniti, at the address at the end of this document.
be paid on 15 May 2009 to all holders of ordinary shares on the Register of Members at the close of business on 27 March 2009.
2008 Financial statements Directors The summary financial statements on page 24 and 25 have been The following persons served as directors of the Company during prepared on the basis of accounting policies set out in the groups the year: 2008 Annual Report and Accounts.
The consolidated income statement has been presented on both a Market Consistent Nikesh Arora Embedded Value MCEV basis and an International Financial Guillermo fide la Dehesa retired on 31 December 2008 Reporting Standards IFRS basis.
The group continues to believe that Wim Dik the MCEV basis provides a better measure of the performance of Mary Francis the life business than the statutory IFRS basis.
Results of an insurance Richard Karl Goeltz business in any particular year can be affected by significant Mark Hodges appointed 26 June 2008 movements in investment values, which influence the reported Andrew Moss profits before tax.
Therefore, to measure the underlying business Carole Piwnica performance, operating profit before tax based on longer term rates Philip Scott of investment return is used, eliminating the volatility caused by Lord Sharman of Redlynch movements in investment values.
As a result, managers are Russell Walls encouraged to focus on operational performance and aspects of Scott Wheway the business that are under their control.
The biographical details of the persons currently serving as directors appear on page 20.
Summarised directors report The Companys articles of association require one-third of the Annual general meeting directors to retire by rotation each year and also require each The 2009 annual general meeting of the company will be held on director to retire at intervals of not more than three years.
At the 29 April 2009 at the Barbican Centre, Silk Street, London, EC2Y 8DS forthcoming Annual General Meeting Mary Francis, Richard Goeltz, at 11am.
A separate document accompanying the Annual Review Carole Piwnica and Russell Walls, all non-executive directors, will contains the Notice convening the Meeting and a description of the retire and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
business to be conducted thereat.
Euleen Goh and Mark Hodges will offer themselves for election by shareholders at this years Annual General Meeting being the first Review of operations Aviva plc is the holding company of the Aviva group of companies.
such meeting after their appointment.
Euleen Goh is a non-executive director and was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2009.
The principal activities of the group are life insurance and long-term savings business, asset management and all classes of general Mark Hodges is an executive director with a service contract with the Company, details of which can be found in the Directors insurance carried out through its subsidiaries, associates and branches in the United Kingdom, continental Europe and Ireland, remuneration report.
Guillermo fide la Dehesa retired from the Board on 31 December 2008 and Wim Dik will retire at this years Annual North America, Asia and Australia.
The group also undertakes motoring services in the UK and Ireland.
Details of the groups General Meeting in line with the Boards plans to renew and refresh its composition.
operations for the accounting period, its current position and future prospects are contained in the Chairmans statement and Group chief executives statement and business segment overviews on pages 1 to 7.
Aviva plc Annual Review 2008 23 Directors interests and indemnity arrangements Corporate Responsibility CR At no time during the year did any director hold a material interest in Aviva's Corporate Responsibility CR policy and programme is firmly any contract of significance with the company or any of its subsidiary established as a key element in our vision to deliver prosperity and undertakings other than an indemnity provision between each peace of mind to our customers.
Covering business ethics and director and the Company and service contracts between each values, customers, employees and suppliers, communities and the executive director and a Group Company.
environment, our CR performance in all areas continues to rank highly with global benchmarking indices and research agencies.
The company has purchased and maintained throughout the year Aviva's CR report contains more information on our progress during directors and officers liability insurance in respect of itself and the year.
It can be viewed online at www.
com cr or a printed its directors.
The directors also have the benefit of the indemnity version is available from the group company secretary.
provision contained in the Companys articles of association.
The Company has executed deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each director of the Company and each person who was a director of the company during the year in respect of liabilities which may attach to them in their capacity as directors of the Company or of associated companies.
These indemnities were granted at different times according to the law in place at the time and where relevant, are qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as defined by Section 309B of the Companies Act 1985 and Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
These indemnities were in force throughout the year and are currently in force.
Directors interests in Aviva shares The interests held by each person who was a director at the end of the financial year in the ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the company are shown below.
All the disclosed interests are beneficial.
The table also summarises the interests in shares held through the companys various all-employee and executive share schemes.
Shares are the directors beneficial holdings in the ordinary shares of the Company and in respect of the EDs include shares held in trust under the Companys All-Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP being shares purchased by them under the partnership element and shares granted under the free share element of the AESOP.
Bonus Plan Awards relates to entitlements to shares arising through the current, or former, Aviva Bonus Plans.
Under these plans some of the earned bonuses are paid in the form of shares and deferred for three years.
The transfer of the shares to the director at the end of the period is not subject to the attainment of performance conditions but a proportion of the shares can be forfeited if the executive leaves service before the end of the period.
Long Term Incentive Awards are awards granted under the LTIP which vest only if the performance conditions are achieved.
OATTV awards are granted as a match to the bonus plan awards under the ABP and vest only if the performance conditions are achieved.
Options are options over shares granted under the SAYE 6.
The interests of connected persons to the Directors are included in the Directors interests above.
Mark Hodges was appointed as a director on 26 June 2008.
On this date he held 79,873 shares, 125,876 bonus plan awards, 198,549 long term incentive awards, 41,838 OATTV awards and 1,705 options.
Aviva plc 24 Annual Review 2008 Summary financial statements continued Summarised consolidated income statement Independent auditors statement to the members of Aviva plc 2 Restated 2008 2007 We have examined the groups summary financial statements for m m the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the summarised Total sales for the year consolidated income statement, summarised consolidated statement Life and pension businesses 36,283 32,722 Investment sales 3,995 6,983 of recognised income and expense IFRS basis, summarised General insurance 11,137 10,569 reconcilation of movements in consolidated shareholders equity 51,415 50,274 IFRS basis, summarised consolidated balance sheet IFRS basis and Premiums written net of reinsurance supplemental balance sheet information MCEV basis.
and other investment sales This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, Long-term business 23,228 18,764 in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
General insurance and health premiums 11,137 10,569 34,365 29,333 To the fullest extent required by the law, we do not accept or Pre-tax operating profit assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the Long-term business MCEV operating return 2,801 2,544 companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Fund management operating profit 42 90 or for the opinions we have formed.
General insurance and health operating profit 1,198 1,021 Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Other operations 163 70 The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review in Regional operating profit 3,878 3,585 accordance with applicable law.
Corporate centre, group debt costs and other interest 520 520 1 Operating profit MCEV basis 3,358 3,065 Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency Adjustment to report the profits of our long-term insurance, of the summary financial statements within the Annual Review with fund management and other operations on an IFRS basis 1,061 849 the full annual financial statements, the Directors Report and IFRS operating profit before tax attributable Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant to shareholders profits 2,297 2,216 Investment return variances and economic assumption changes requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the on long-term business 1,631 15 regulations made thereunder.
Short-term fluctuation in return on investments backing non-long-term business 819 184 We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review Economic assumption changes on general insurance and and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of health business 94 2 any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Impairment of goodwill 66 10 summary financial statement.
Amortisation and impairment of intangibles 117 103 Basis of opinion Profit on the disposal of subsidiaries and associates 7 49 Integration and restructuring costs 326 153 We conducted our examination in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 Exceptional items 551 The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued Loss profit before tax attributable to shareholders profits by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our report on the companys full IFRS basis 1,300 1,832 annual financial statements describes the basis of our audit opinions Tax 415 334 on those financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Loss profit for the year 885 1,498 Report.
Summarised consolidated statement of recognised income Opinion and expense IFRS basis In our opinion the summary financial statements are consistent with the full annual financial statements, the Directors Report and Restated 2008 2007 Directors Remuneration Report, of Aviva plc for the year ended m m 31 December 2008 and complies with the applicable requirements Fair value losses, net of transfers to income statement 1,770 210 of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and regulations made Actuarial losses gains on pension schemes 851 587 thereunder.
Foreign exchange rate and other movements 2,653 723 Aggregate tax effect 235 179 Ernst & Young LLP Net income recognised directly in equity 267 921 Registered Auditor Loss profit after tax attributable to shareholders 885 1,498 London 4 March 2009 Total recognised expenses income for the year 618 2,419 Aviva plc Annual Review 2008 25 Summarised reconciliation of movements in consolidated Supplemental balance sheet information MCEV basis shareholders equity Restated 2008 2007 2 Restated m m 2008 2007 Equity attributable to ordinary shareholders m m of Aviva plc IFRS basis 11,052 12,946 Balance at 1 January restated 15,931 14,064 Adjustment to other reserves 1,429 290 Prior year adjustment 319 Additional retained profit on an MCEV basis 431 7,342 Shareholders funds at the beginning of the year, as restated 15,931 13,745 Total recognised expense and income for the year 618 2,419 Equity attributable to ordinary shareholders of Aviva plc MCEV basis 12,912 19,998 Dividends and appropriations 975 871 Preference share capital and direct capital instrument 1,190 1,190 Issue of share capital 20 48 Minority interests 3,013 2,501 Shares issued in lieu of dividends 170 301 Total equity MCEV basis 17,115 23,689 Capital contributions from minority shareholders 36 Minority share of dividends declared in the year 106 66 Approved by the Board on 4 March 2009 Minority interest in acquired subsidiaries 43 315 Changes in minority interest in existing subsidaries 65 Shares acquired by employee trusts 29 10 Reserves credit for equity compensation plans 39 50 Balance at 31 December 14,446 15,931 Restated 2008 2007 pence pence 3 Operating earnings per share Basic MCEV basis 83.4p 70.4p Philip Scott 3 Chief Financial Officer Operating earnings per share Diluted MCEV basis 82.7p 69.8p 4 Total earnings per share Basic MCEV basis 290.9 p 63.8p Notes 4 Total earnings per share Diluted MCEV basis 290.9 p 63.2p 1.
Before tax and adjusting items.
3 Operating earnings per share Basic IFRS basis 62.9p 52.8p 2.
Following a review of our general insurance reserving policy, we have restated the 3 Operating earnings per share Diluted IFRS basis 62.3p 52.3p 2007 comparative figures to discount our long-term latent claims provisions.
We have 4 Total earnings per share Basic IFRS basis 36.8 p 48.9p also reviewed our policy on the consolidation of managed funds and, as a result, have 4 Total earnings per share Diluted IFRS basis 36.8 p 48.5p made further restatements for the effect of third party participation.
Operating earnings per share is based on the operating profit on either an MCEV Net asset value per ordinary share IFRS basis 416p 494p 5 or IFRS basis, after tax, minority interests and preference dividends.
Net asset value per ordinary share MCEV basis 486p 763p 4.
Total earnings per share is based on the MCEV or IFRS profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders.
Summarised consolidated balance sheet IFRS basis 5.
Net asset value per ordinary share is calculated based on equity shareholders funds.
Restated 2008 2007 As announced in February 2009, the Group has adopted a market m m consistent embedded value methodology MCEV for supplementary Assets life reporting.
This replaces the European Embedded Value basis EEV Goodwill 3,578 3,082 we have previously used.
We have restated the 2007 balance Additional value of in-force business and intangible assets 4,038 3,197 sheet and results accordingly.
There is no change to the underlying Interest in, and loans to, joint ventures and associates 2,983 3,782 Investment properties, property and equipment 15,390 16,333 fundamentals or economics of our business as a result of adopting Financial investments 229,722 216,410 MCEV: it merely provides a further perspective on the business, Other assets 74,670 62,433 particularly for internal capital allocation purposes.
Avivas Market Cash and cash equivalents 24,181 16,089 Consistent Embedded Value methology is in accordance with Total assets 354,562 321,326 the MCEV Principles published by the CFO Forum in June 2008 Capital and reserves with the exception of the use of an adjusted risk-free yield due Equity attributable to ordinary shareholders of Aviva plc 11,052 12,946 to current market conditions for immediate annuities in the UK Preference share capital 200 200 and the Netherlands and all US contracts.
Full details of our Direct capital instrument 990 990 methodology can be found in the Annual Report and Accounts on Minority interests 2,204 1,795 the company website.
Total equity 14,446 15,931 Liabilities Gross liability for insurance and investment contracts 282,409 251,083 Unallocated divisible surplus 2,325 6,785 Net asset value attributable to unitholders 6,918 6,409 Borrowings 15,201 12,657 Other liabilities 33,263 28,461 Total liabilities 340,116 305,395 Total equity and liabilities 354,562 321,326 Aviva plc 26 Annual Review 2008 Summary financial statements continued The remuneration package Summary directors remuneration report Against this background, the remuneration committee seeks to Below is a summary of the information contained in the Directors ensure that whilst a competitive basic salary is paid, a substantial remuneration report which shareholders will be asked to approve element of the remuneration package should be closely linked to at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Directors the performance of the business and delivered in the form of shares.
remuneration report, contained in the Companys Annual Report During 2008, the remuneration package for the Companys and Accounts for 2008, provides full details of the Companys executive directors comprised the following elements: remuneration policy, practices, pension arrangements and incentive plans, including a description of the performance conditions which A basic salary.
apply to the incentive plans, as well as details of all the awards and An annual bonus plan to encourage executives to meet annual options held by the directors.
targets relating to business and agreed personal performance targets.
Two-thirds of any bonus is paid in the form of shares and Highlights deferred for three years.
In 2008 the Committee agreed and implemented, with A One Aviva Twice The Value OATTV bonus plan to align senior shareholder approval, the One Aviva Twice the Value Bonus Plan.
executives with the Chief Executives clear strategic imperative of It decided to maintain the 2008 financial targets set in December doubling EPS by the end of 2012.
The plan matches 100% of the 2007 despite the unprecedented shocks to the macro-economic deferred ABP shares for the Chief Executive 75% for other EDs.
system and volatility in markets.
The vesting of these matched shares is dependent on the average The Committee approved the Executive Directors request to annual growth in EPS during the three year performance period.
freeze their basic salaries for 2009.
It is not proposing any major A long-term incentive plan LTIP to align executives longer term adjustments to Avivas executive remuneration structure in the interests with those of shareholders.
It has further approved stretching financial targets for 2009 and agreed to review in mid 2009 their continued A pension entitlement, although no ED is currently accruing service appropriateness.
based benefits in the UK Defined Benefit Scheme.
The demanding financial and non-financial targets set for the 2008 A long-term discretionary savings plan, used primarily for annual bonus were met in-part during the year.
The combination employees who can no longer accrue pension benefits or whose of financial outcomes, along with those targets relating to benefits are restricted under the staff pension scheme, called the employees, customers, and personal objectives mean the Chief Aviva Capital Accumulation Plan ACAP.
Executive received a 2008 bonus of 54.2% of his maximum A car allowance, private medical insurance and participation in the opportunity 2007: 65%.
The Committee entered the 2009 reward review conscious of the Annual bonuses have targets set against a range of financial, customer economic background and widespread comment on over-generous and employee metrics, accounting for 70% of the bonus opportunity, executive remuneration.
The Committee believes Avivas 2008 plus personal objectives accounting for the remaining 30%.
business results are strong and that Avivas remuneration practices already closely link pay to performance.
The Committee has, Awards granted under the LTIP plan are subject to meeting however, looked to ensure prudent and proportionate reward performance conditions based on Total Shareholder Return TSR and outcomes.
return on capital employed RoCE targets.
The TSR performance conditions require Aviva to achieve median or better performance The Committee has decided to defer for one year Avivas fiveagainst the TSR of a peer group of major European financial services yearly comprehensive compensation review.
The existing companies over the three year performance period for that element authorities and approvals, granted by shareholders in 2005, will to vest.
RoCE targets are set taking account of the Companys three allow the current schemes to continue to operate up until the year business plan, trading conditions and shareholder expectations Annual General Meeting in 2010. at the time each award is made.
Mark Hodges, Chief Executive, Norwich Union Life, was appointed All executive directors have a service contract which can be an Executive Director of Aviva plc in June 2008.
Information on his terminated by the Company upon giving 12 months notice.
remuneration therefore appears in this report for the first time.
Non-executive appointments can be terminated by either party Remuneration policy at any time upon giving one months written notice.
The remuneration committees key objectives are to: Establish a competitive remuneration package to attract, retain and motivate scarce, high quality leaders: Promote the achievement of both our annual plans and our strategic objectives and ambitions by providing a remuneration package that contains appropriately motivating targets: Align senior executives remuneration with the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders, including customers and employees.
Aviva plc Annual Review 2008 27 Planned future changes 2008 awards We do not anticipate any significant changes to the structure of In addition to the remuneration set out in the table below the executives compensation packages in 2009, compared with that following shares were awarded to executive directors in 2008 under outlined below.
There are, however, two points to note:- the companys incentive plans.
The shares granted under the longterm incentive plan will only vest if certain conditions relating to the Aviva has changed its financial reporting from a European companys performance over the three financial years commencing Embedded Value EEV to a Market Consistent Embedded Value 1 January 2008 are met, as explained above.
This will require the financial targets to be stated on the new MCEV basis.
Annual Bonus Plan Long-Term Deferred OATTV Incentive The external economic climate against which financial targets 2 Shares Shares Plan Shares for 2009 have been set is unprecedentedly volatile.
The level of Andrew Moss 93,567 93,567 253,289 stretch in the targets is very sensitive to the depth and duration Philip Scott 70,312 52,734 140,625 of economic downturn, which is currently highly uncertain.
Mark Hodges 55,785 41,838 97,450 The Committee has therefore decided to review mid year the In addition to the above, directors have interests in awards and financial targets used for bonus purposes for EDs and other options granted in previous years.
Only in exceptional circumstances would the Committee consider amending financial targets, either up or down, and any significant change would be the subject of appropriate consultation.
Bonuses show the value at the date of award inclusive of the two thirds of bonus which Aviva requires its EDs to defer into Aviva shares for three years.
During the year, shares granted to certain former EDs under the Companys incentive plans vested.
Details of these awards were fully disclosed in the year of grant.
All the EDs received life assurance benefits during the year that relate to the cost incurred by the Company of insuring the directors life and relevant spouses benefits which, had the director died during the year, could not have been wholly paid by the pension scheme and would therefore have been met by the Company had the insurance not been in place.
The disclosure also includes the cost of private medical insurance and, where appropriate, accompanied travel, accommodation and car benefits.
All the numbers disclosed include the tax charged on the benefits.
No directors received an expense allowance during the year.
Mark Hodges 2007 data is not disclosed as he was not an ED during the year.
Mark Hodges 2008 data shown above includes all sums paid to him during 2008, not just those paid in respect of his services as a director.
For the purposes of the disclosure required by Schedule 6 to the Companies Act 1985 the total aggregate emoluments of the directors in respect of 2008 was 5.2 million 2007: 6.6 million, which included three Executive Directors who left in 2007.
This reflects the total aggregate emoluments of Mark Hodges in respect of the period that he served as a director during the year, comprising basic salary of 269,000, bonus of 275,000 and benefits of 53,000.
No compensation payment for loss of office was made to any director, or former director, during the year.
Annual bonuses are one-third paid in cash and two-thirds deferred into shares for three years.
"Aviva plc 28 Annual Review 2008 Shareholder services Dividend Reinvestment Plan ""DRIP"" Scrip Dividend Scheme Managing your shareholding Following a review by the Board of the operation of the current DRIP, Our Registrar, Equiniti, maintains the Companys Register of Members the Company intends to propose a resolution at the forthcoming and if you have any queries in respect of your shareholding, please AGM to reintroduce a SCRIP dividend scheme ""SCRIP Scheme""."
contact them directly using the contact details provided on page 29.
The Board has therefore decided to withdraw the DRIP and, subject to In addition to assisting with general queries, Equiniti can also help shareholder approval, will reintroduce the SCRIP Scheme commencing with the following: with the 2008 final dividend in order to provide shareholders with the Amalgamating your shareholding opportunity to elect to receive their dividends in the form of new If you receive more than one copy of our communications, it could shares in the Company instead of in cash.
com shareholderupdates convenient as payment is credited automatically on the payment Corporate nominee date.
Your tax voucher will be sent to your registered address as We offer a corporate nominee service, the Aviva Share Account, usual.
If you would like to set up a dividend mandate, you can for shareholders who wish to remain anonymous.
If you choose to do so via our website www.
com dividendmandate join the nominee account, your personal details will not be entered or by contacting Equiniti to request a mandate form.
on our share register but you will have the same rights as registered If you live overseas, an Overseas Payment Service is available shareholders and will receive the same shareholder communications.
com shareholderguide Electronic communications We have embraced the changes brought about by the Companies Act 2006 which recognises the growing importance of electronic communications.
We therefore provide documentation and communications to you via our website unless you have specifically elected to receive a hard copy.
Using electronic communications enables fast receipt of documents, reduces our printing, paper and postage costs and has a positive impact on the environment.
Aviva plc 29 Annual Review 2008 Share dealing We have arranged the following services that can be used to buy or sell Aviva shares which you may find useful.
co. uk dealing Telephone: Telephone: 08456 037 037 08456 037 037 NatWest Stockbrokers Limited UK only Freephone: Freephone: 0808 208 4411 0808 208 4422 Barclays Stockbrokers Limited UK and overseas UK shareholders: UK shareholders: Telephone: Telephone: 0870 549 3002 0870 549 3001 For postal applications: 0870 514 3263 Overseas shareholders: Overseas shareholders: Telephone: Telephone: 44 0 141 352 3959 44 0 141 352 3959 # WH Ireland Limited UK and overseas UK shareholders: Not available Telephone: 0845 603 1470 Email: CSOS@WH-ireland.
Share price Annual General Meeting You can access the current share Our Annual General Meeting will be held at: price of Aviva plc ordinary shares The Barbican Centre, Silk Street, London EC2Y 8DS on: at www.
com investors 29 April 2009 at 11.00am or by calling FT Cityline on 09058 171 690.
The Notice of Meeting, together with details of the business to be conducted at the Meeting is available on our website www.
com agm If you would like to find out the price of Aviva preference shares, please follow If you are unable to attend but would like to ask the directors any questions, please the link on the Aviva website to the do so via our website www.
com agm or complete and return the shareholder London Stock Exchange at questions form, which can be found at the back of the Notice of Meeting.
com the most frequently asked questions will be circulated at the meeting and published on en-gb pricesnews our website after the meeting.
The voting results for our 2009 AGM, including proxy votes and votes withheld will be available on our website shortly after the meeting at the following address Calls are currently charged at 75 pence per minute from www.
Aviva plc 30 Annual Review 2008 Shareholder services continued Group financial calendar for 2009 Announcement of financial results for the year ended 31 December 2008 5 March Annual General Meeting 29 April Announcement of first quarter interim management statement 30 April Announcement of unaudited six months interim results 6 August Announcement of third quarter interim management statement 4 November Ordinary shares 2008 final dividend Ex-dividend date 25 March Record date 27 March Dividend payment date 15 May Preference shares 3 First dividend payment for 8 8% cumulative irredeemable preference shares 31 March 3 First dividend payment for 8 4% cumulative irredeemable preference shares 30 June 3 Second dividend payment for 8 8% cumulative irredeemable preference shares 30 September 3 Second dividend payment for 8 4% cumulative irredeemable preference shares 31 December Useful contact details Alternative format Detailed below are the contact details that shareholders may find If you would like to request a copy of our Annual useful.
Please quote Aviva plc as well as the name and address in Report and Accounts in an alternative format, for which the shares are held in all correspondence.
Please quote your example, braille or audio, please contact Equiniti by shareholder reference number as well, which you will find on your calling 0871 384 2953. latest dividend stationery.
General shareholding, administration and Aviva Share Account queries Aviva plc details Equiniti Aspect House Registered in England Telephone Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Number: 2468686 44 0 20 7283 2000 e-mail: aviva@equiniti.
com | Telephone 0871 384 2953 Registered Office: www.
com St Helens, 1 Undershaft, Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
London EC3P 3DQ Internet sites Aviva owns various internet sites, most of which interlink with each other: Other useful links for shareholders: Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
Aviva Group Dividend information Board photography by Marcus Ginns.
com All registered trademarks acknowledged.
UK Long-term savings and General shareholder information Aviva are committed to caring for the environment and looking for sustainable ways to minimise our impact on it.
com shareholders This year our annual review has been printed by Beacon www.
com Press using pureprint environmental print technology.
Annual General Meeting We choose Beacon Press because they have the important Asset management information environmental certification by SGS for the FSC standards.
com Also we take care to minimise the impact on the environment in the paper we use.
The paper we have Aviva worldwide internet sites Electronic voting for used, Revive 50:50 Silk, is a recycled paper containing www.
com websites Annual General Meeting 50% recovered waste and 50% virgin fibre and www.
com agm manufactured at a mill accredited with ISO 14001 environmental management standard.
The pulp used From 1 June 2009, this website will change to in this product is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine www.
This ensures there is an audited chain of custody from the tree in the well-managed forest through to the finished document in the printing factory.
ISO 14001 A pattern of control for an environmental management system against which an organisation can be credited by a third party.
