Notes totheConsolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF ACCOUNTING  have beenpreparedin accordancewith International  IFRS, issuedby, or adoptedby, the International Accounting Standards Board, interpretations issuedbythe International FinancialReporting Interpretations Committee,  Guernseyandthe Listing Rulesof the UKListing Authority.
IFRS requiresmanagement to make judgements, estimates andassumptions that affectthe applicationof the reported amounts in these financialstatements.
 have beenpreparedon the historical cost basis, as amendedto reflectcertainitems that arepresentedat fairvalue.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION  incorporate the financialstatements of the Companyandentities controlled bythe Company its subsidiaries upto 31 December2008.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directlyor indirectly, to govern the  an entity so as to obtain benefitsfrom its activities.
Theresults of subsidiaries acquiredduringthe yearareincludedin the consolidated income statement from the effectivedateof acquisition andwhere necessary, adjustments aremadeto the financialstatements of subsidiariesto bringthe accounting policiesusedinto linewith those usedbythe Group.
Allintra group transactions, balances, income  consolidation.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Theacquisition of subsidiariesis accounted for using the purchasemethod.
Thecost of the acquisition is measuredat the aggregateof the fairvalues, at the dateof exchange, of assets given,  assumed, andequityinstruments issuedbythe Groupin exchangefor control of the acquiree, plus any costs  the business combination.
,  liabilitiesthat meet the conditions for recognition underIFRS 3 BusinessCombinations arerecognisedat their fairvalue at the acquisition date.
Theexcessamount arisingon acquisition is recognisedas an intangibleasset  fairvalue at acquisition.
This intangibleasset representsthe rights to future profits on the serviceelementof the relatedconcessions.
Theinterest of minority shareholdersin the acquireeis initiallymeasuredat the minoritys proportion of the net fairvalueof the assets,  .
INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES Anassociate is an entity over which the Groupis in aposition to exercisesignificant influence, but not control or joint control, through participationin the  of the entity.
Theresults andassets andliabilitiesof associates areincorporatedin these financialstatements using the equitymethod of accounting.
Investments in associates arecarriedin the balancesheet at cost andadjustedbypost acquisition changesin the Groupsshareof the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of .
Losses of the associates in excess of the Groupsinterest in those associates arenot recognisedin the financialstatements.
WhereaGroupcompany transacts with an associate of the Group, profits andlosses areeliminatedto the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant associate.
INTANGIBLES Anintangibleasset is recognisedon the acquisition of serviceconcession  rights to future profits on the serviceelementof these concessions.
This intangibleis  fairvalueandis subsequently amortised over the lifeof the .
TheGroupalso recognisesan intangibleasset on the right to chargeusers of the infrastructure assets within aservice concession.
This intangibleasset is initiallymeasuredat fairvalue andis subsequently amortised over the remaininglifeof the concession from the dateon which it is availablefor use.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT  use in the production or supplyof goods or services, or for administrative purposes, arestated in the balancesheet at fairvalue on acquisition, less any subsequent  accumulated impairmentlosses.
34 Notes totheConsolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
 Policies continued Depreciationof these assets, on the same basisas other propertyassets, commences when the assets arereadyfor their intendeduse.
Depreciationis chargedso as to write off the cost or valuation of assets, other than , over their estimateduseful lives, using the straight line method at 4.3%.
REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenueis measuredat the fairvalue of the consideration receivedor  following in respectof PFI PPP projects: Thevalueof construction work in progress on PFI projects wherethe principalasset is to beaccounted for as afinancialor intangibleasset:  PFI projects wherethe principalasset is accounted for as afixedor intangibleasset: Revenues from the provision of facilitiesmanagement servicesto PFI projects: Non core  adhoc  projectsat the requestof the client:and Third partyrevenues on PFI projects.
Financialasset interest income is accruedon atime basis, byreferenceto the principaloutstanding andat the effectiveinterest rateapplicable, which is the ratethat exactly discounts estimated future cash receiptsthrough the expectedlifeof the financial asset to that assets net carryingamount.
Dividendincome from investments is recognisedwhen the shareholdersrights to receivepayment has beenestablished.
ACQUISITION COSTS Acquisition costs arethose costs predominantly  costs, duediligencecosts, stamp duty andincluding the investment advisory feesin respectof the acquisition incurredbythe Groupin connection with acquisitions of investments.
Acquisition costs areincludedin the pricein determiningthe cost of the Groupsinvestments.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES  of eachgroupcompany arepresentedin the currencyof the primaryeconomic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
For the purposeof the consolidated financialstatements, the results andfinancial position of eachgroupcompany areexpressedin pound sterlingwhich is the functional currencyof the Company, andthe presentation currencyfor the consolidated financialstatements.
In preparingthe financialstatements of the individualcompanies, transactions in currenciesother than the entitys functional currency foreigncurrencies arerecordedat spot rates on the datesof the transactions.
Ateachbalancesheet date, monetary assets andliabilitiesthat aredenominatedin  spot rates.
Non monetary items carriedat fair valuethat aredenominatedin  at the spot rates at the datewhen the fairvaluewas determined.
Non monetary items that aremeasuredin terms of historical cost in  retranslated.
 the settlement of monetary items, andon the retranslation of monetary items, areincludedin profit or loss for the period.
 the retranslation of non monetary items carriedat fairvalueare includedin profit or loss for the periodexceptfor differencesarisingon the retranslation of non monetary items in respectof which gainsandlosses  equity.
For such non monetary items, any exchangecomponent of that gainor loss is also recogniseddirectlyin equity.
For the purposeof  financialstatements the assets andliabilitiesof the  are translatedat exchangerates prevailingon the balancesheet date.
Income andexpenseitems aretranslatedat the average exchangeratesfor the period, unless exchangerates fluctuate significantly duringthat period, in which casethe exchangerateat the dateof transactions areused.
, if any, areclassifiedas  the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation  income or expensesin the periodin which the operation is disposedof.
BORROWING COSTS Borrowing costs  the acquisition, construction or production of qualifyingassets, which areassets that necessarilytake asubstantial periodof time to getreadyfor their intendeduse or sale, areaddedto the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets aresubstantially readyfor their intendeduse or sale.
Wherethe propertyof PFI PPP projects is accounted for as afinancialor intangibleasset in the course of construction, the sale is deemedto take placeas construction commences andborrowing costs on the  the income statement in the periodin which they areincurred.
Allother borrowing costs arerecognisedin the income statement in the periodin which they areincurred.
BABCOCK & BROWN PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS LIMITED 35 Notes totheConsolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
 Policies continued TAXATION TheCompanyhas obtainedexempt company status in Guernseyunderthe terms of the Income Tax exempt Bodies Guernsey Ordinance, 1989andaccordinglyis subjectto an annual chargeof currently 600.
 corporate income tax on any taxableincome, afterallowingfor both revenueand capitaldeductions arisingfrom their activities.
Thetax expenseincludedin the income statement representsthe sum of the current tax anddeferredtax andis calculatedin accordancewith  the jurisdictions in which eachentity operates.
Currenttax is basedon taxableprofit for the period.
Taxableprofit differsfrom net profit as reportedin the income statement becauseit excludesitems of income or expensethat aretaxableor deductiblein past or future yearsandit further excludes items that arenevertaxableor deductible.
 current tax is calculatedusing tax ratesthat have been enactedor substantively enactedbythe balancesheet date.
Deferredtax is the tax expectedto bepayableor recoverableon  carryingamounts of assets and liabilitiesin the financialstatements andthe correspondingtax basesusedin the computation of taxableprofit, andis accounted for using the balancesheet liabilitymethod.
Deferredtax   anddeferredtax assets arerecognisedto the extent that it is probablethat taxableprofits  deductibletemporary .
Such assets andliabilitiesarenot recognisedifthe  from goodwillor from the initial recognition other than in abusiness combination of other assets andliabilitiesin atransaction that affectsneither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferredtax  taxabletemporary differencesarisingon investments in  and interests in joint ventures, exceptwherethe Groupis ableto control the reversalof the  is probable that the temporary differencewillnot reversein the foreseeablefuture.
Thecarryingamount of deferredtax assets is reviewedat eachbalancesheet dateandreducedto the extent that it is no longer probablethat sufficient taxableprofits willbeavailableto allow allor partof the asset to berecovered.
Deferredtax is calculatedat the tax rates that areexpectedto applyin the periodwhen the liabilityis settledor the asset is realised.
Deferredtax is chargedor creditedin the income statement, exceptwhen it relatesto items chargedor crediteddirectly to equity, in which casethe deferredtax is also dealtwith in equity.
Deferredtax assets  when thereis  to set off current tax assets againstcurrent tax liabilitiesandwhen they relateto income taxes leviedbythe same taxation authority andthe Groupintends to settle its current tax assets andliabilitieson anet basis.
EFFECTIVE INTEREST METHOD Theeffectiveinterest method is amethod of calculatingthe amortised cost of afinancialasset andof allocatinginterest income over the relevantperiod.
Theeffectiveinterest rateis the ratethat exactly discounts estimatedfuture cash receipts includingall feeson points paidor receivedthat form an integralpartof the effectiveinterest rate, transaction costs andother premiums or discounts through the expectedlifeof the financialasset, or, whereappropriate, ashorter period.
Thecarryingvalueof the financialasset is adjustedto reflectchangesin actual andestimatedcash flows with any adjustment recognisedas income or expensein profit or loss.
Thechangein carryingvalue is  the presentvalueof estimatedfuture cash flows at the financialassets  rate.
Income is recognisedon an effectiveinterest basisfor debtinstruments other than those financialassets designatedas at FVTPL.
AVAILABLE FOR SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS Investments classifiedas availablefor  eachsubsequent reportingdateat fairvalue.
For availablefor salefinancialassets, gainsandlosses arisingfrom changesin fairvalue  equity, until the investment is disposedof or is determinedto beimpaired, at which time the cumulative gainor loss previously recognisedin equityis includedin the profit or loss for the period.
Thefairvalueof availablefor salefinancialassets aredeterminedas follows: the fairvalueof availablefor salefinancialassets with standardterms andconditions andtradedon an activeliquidmarket aredeterminedwith referenceto quoted market prices:or the fairvalueof other availablefor salefinancialassets aredeterminedin accordancewith  basedon discounted cash flow analysis using pricesfrom observablemarket transactions.
36 Notes totheConsolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
 Policies continued CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cashandcash equivalents comprisecash on hand anddemanddeposits andother short term  with an originalmaturity of threemonths or less that  aknown amount of cash andaresubjectto an insignificant risk of changesin value.
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY   the substance of the contractual arrangementsentered into.
 eitherFVTPL or as other financialliabilities.
Anequityinstrument is any contract that  in the assets of the  its liabilities.
BANK BORROWINGS Interest bearing bankloans andoverdrafts arerecordedat the proceedsreceived, net of directissue costs.
Financecharges, includingpremiums payableon settlement or  costs, areaccounted for on an accrualbasisin the income statement using the effectiveinterest method andareaddedto the carryingamount of the instrument to the extent that they arenot settledin the periodin which they arise.
EQUITY INSTRUMENTS Equity instruments issuedbythe Company arerecordedat the proceedsreceived, net of directissue costs which areexpensed againstthe Companys SharePremium Account as  Guernsey Law, 1994.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT TheGroupsactivities exposeit primarilyto the financialrisks of changesin  rates.
TheGroupmay use  andinterest rateswaps to hedgethese exposures.
Theuse of  governedbythe  Boardof Directors, which providewritten principleson the use of financialderivatives.
TheGroupdoes not use  for speculativepurposes.
Dueto the nature of PFI PPP projects, it is important that keyfinancialrisks arehedgedat the inception of the project, and indeedthe funders of the projects insist on this.
ThereforeeachPFI PPP projectfixes the interest rateon its debt.
In aminority of cases, this is  projectwith afixedratebondor fixedratebankdebt.
In the majority of cases, this is achievedbyfundingthe projectwith  is fully swappedinto fixedrateat the inception of the project.
HEDGE ACCOUNTING  as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedgerelationship the entity documents the relationships betweenthe hedginginstrument andhedgeditem, along with the risk  strategy for undertakingvarious transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedgeandon an ongoing basis, the group documents whether the hedginginstruments usedin hedgingtransactions arehighlyeffectivein offsetting changesin fairvalues or cash flows of hedgeditems.
Changesin the fairvalue of  that  hedgesof future cash flows are recogniseddirectlyin equityandthe ineffectiveportion is  the income statement.
Whereineffectiveness is judgedto have occurred, eitheraproportion or the full amount of the ineffectiveness is taken to the income statement dependingon the levelof effectiveness experienced.
Hedgeaccounting is discontinued when the hedginginstrument expiresor is terminated, for exampleifaprojectis refinanced.
At that time, any cumulative gainor loss on the hedginginstrument recognisedin equityis recycledthrough the income statement over the remaininglifeof the instrument on astraight linebasis.
If the hedgedtransaction is no longerexpectedto occur, the net cumulative gainor loss recognisedin equityis transferredto net profit or loss for the period.
EMBEDDED DERIVATIVES  other financialinstruments andother host contracts aretreatedas  their risks  closelyrelatedto those of host contracts andthe host contracts arenot carriedat fairvalue, with gainsor losses reportedin the income statement.
CREDIT RISK TheGroupis not exposedto significant creditrisk as the  PFI concessions with government departments, localauthorities andother publicsector clients:with the exception of the following concessions: RiverCityMotorway which derivestoll revenueat the point of sale: the DiaboloProject which  the localauthority, however is exposedto an elementof demandrisk:and BABCOCK & BROWN PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS LIMITED 37 Notes totheConsolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
 Policies continued AngelTrainswhich providesrollingstock to various  TOCs underlong term leasearrangements.
Certainelements of the  benefitsfrom Section 54 undertakings.
Theseundertakings  leaserentals to entities such as AngelTrains for periodsexceedingthe first leaselength therefore greatlymitigating re leaserisk on  Departmentfor Transport andaregrantedat the time of the initial investment.
TheGrouppolicyis to dealonly with creditworthy counter partiesin its bankingandsub contracting arrangements.
LIQUIDITYRISK TheGroupadopts aprudentapproachto liquiditymanagement andmaintains sufficient cash reservesto meetits obligations.
The verynature of aPFI concession  term stablecash flows.
Loans in PFI projectentities arenon recourse.
Non recourse loans arethose which aresecuredsolely on aspecificasset andits future income.
Theterms of the  the lenderwillnot seekin any wayto enforcerepaymentof eitherprincipalor interest from the rest of the Groupandthe Groupis not obliged, nor doesit intend, to support any losses.
In 2008 the Grouptook out acorporate debtfacilityfor 100m, of which, 58 million was drawndown at 31December2008.
This facilitymatures on 8 May2011 andis securedover allassets of the Company.
This facilityis of sufficient sizeto meetthe Groups ,  headroom availableto support acquisitions, should suitable opportunities .
This facilitycannot beusedfor working capitalpurposes.
INFLATION RISK TypicallyaPFI concession willhave some component of its  inflation andas aresult these  to inflation.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK TheGrouphas exposures to , as aresult of its investments in assets which have functional currencyother than Sterlingandarenot hedgedas at 31 December2008.
TheGroupmay enterinto forwardexchange contracts to mitigate these risks.
IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS Ateachbalancesheet date, the Groupreviews the carryingamounts of its  to determinewhether thereis any indication that those assets have sufferedan impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverableamount of the asset is estimated in orderto determinethe extent of the impairment loss if any.
Wherean intangibleis not yet readyfor use, it is tested for impairment at eachbalancesheet date.
Therecoverableamount is the higherof fairvalue less costs to sellandvalue in use.
In assessing valuein use, the estimated future cash flows arediscounted to their presentvalue using apre tax discount ratethat reflectscurrent market assessments of the time valueof money andthe risks specificto the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not beenadjusted.
If the recoverableamount of an asset is estimated to beless than its carryingamount, the carryingamount of the asset is reducedto its recoverableamount andany impairment loss is  profit or loss.
Wherean impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carryingamount of the asset cash generatingunit is increasedto the revisedestimate of its recoverableamount, but so that the  doesnot exceedthe carryingamount that would have beendeterminedhadno impairment loss beenrecognisedfor the asset cash generatingunit in prioryears.
A reversalof an impairment loss is recognisedas income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carriedat arevaluedamount, in which casethe reversalof the impairment loss is treatedas arevaluation increase.
IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS Financialassets, other than those at FVTPL, areassessedfor indicators of impairment at eachbalancesheet date.
Financial assets  , as aresult of one or more events that occurredafterthe initial recognition of the financialasset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have beenimpacted.
For shares classifiedas AFS, asignificant or prolongeddeclinein the fairvalue of the security belowits cost is consideredto be objectiveevidenceof impairment.
For allother financialassets objectiveevidenceof   the issuer or counterparty.
For certaincategoriesof financialasset, such as tradereceivables, assets that areassessednot to  subsequently assessedfor impairment on acollectivebasis.
Objectiveevidenceof impairmentfor aportfolio of receivablescould includethe Groupspast experienceof collectingpayments, an increasein the number of delayedpayments in the portfolio past the averagecreditperiod, as wellas observablechangesin national or localeconomic conditions that correlatewith defaulton receivables.
38 Notes totheConsolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
 Policies continued Thecarryingamount of the financialasset is reducedbythe impairment loss directlyfor allfinancialassets with the exceptionof tradereceivables, wherethe carryingamount is reducedthrough the use of an allowanceaccount.
When atradereceivableis , it is written off against the allowanceaccount.
Subsequent recoveriesof amounts previously written off arecreditedagainst the allowanceaccount.
Changesin the carryingamount of the allowanceaccount arerecognisedin profit or loss.
With the exception of AFS equityinstruments, if, in asubsequent period, the amount of the impairmentloss decreasesandthe  an event occurringafterthe impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairmentloss is reversedthrough profit or loss to the extent that the carryingamount of the investment at the datethe impairmentis reverseddoes not exceedwhat the amortised cost would have beenhadthe impairmentnot beenrecognised.
In respectof AFS equitysecurities, impairment losses previously recognisedthrough profit or loss arenot reversedthrough profit or loss.
Anyincreasein fairvalue subsequent to an impairment loss is recogniseddirectlyin equity.
PROVISIONS Provisions arerecognisedwhen the Grouphas apresentobligation as aresult of apast event, andit is probablethat the Group willberequiredto settle that obligation.
Provisions aremeasuredat the Directorsbest estimate of the  settle the obligation at the balancesheet date, andarediscounted to presentvalue wherethe effectis material.
PFI PPP CONCESSIONS In accordancewith International  Committee Interpretation 12 ServiceConcessions Arrangements IFRIC 12 andthe various provisions of IFRS, the Grouphas determinedthe appropriatetreatment of the principal assets of, andincome streams from PFI andsimilarcontracts.
Results of allPFI PPP concessions which fallwithin the scopeof IFRIC 12 conform to the following policies: Financialassets Serviceconcessions areaccounted for as financialassets wherethe Group, as operator, has acontractual right to receive cash or another financialasset from or at the directionof the Client grantor.
Income is  of total cash receivableto construction income andserviceincome.
The residualelementof cash receivableis allocatedto the financialasset, using the effectiveinterest method, givingriseto interest income which is recognisedin the income statement.
Duringconstruction, the financialassets arestated at cost, plus attributableprofit to the extent that this is reasonably certain, lessany losses incurredor foreseenin bringingconstruction to completion, andlessamounts receivedas progress payments.
Costs for this  of allwork done bysubcontractors whether certifiedor not, andall overheadsother than those relatingto the  of the relevant companies.
For any contracts where receiptsexceedthe book value of work done, the excess is includedin creditorsas payments on account.
Financialassets areaccounted for as either: loans  fairvalue at inception  amortised cost, lessprovision for impairment:or availablefor salefinancialassets andmeasuredat fairvalue with fairvalue gainsor losses recogniseddirectlyin equity through the statement of changesin  the income statement on saleor impairmentof the asset at which time the cumulative gainor loss previously recognisedin equityis recognisedin profit or loss for the period.
TheCompanys interpretation of this policyis that financialassets in the operational phaseor acquiredtowards the endof the construction phaseareclassifiedas loans andreceivablesas cash flows aredeemedto .
Financial assets for concessions in the construction phasesor acquiredin earlyconstruction, areclassifiedas availablefor salefinancial assets, reflectingthe risk in the construction phasethat cash flows may not .
Intangibleassets within scopeof IFRIC 12 : Serviceconcessions areaccounted for as intangibleassets wherethe Group, as operator, has acontractual right to charge users of the publicservices.
Theintangibleasset is amortised to estimated residualvalueover the remaininglifeof the service concession andtested eachyearfor impairment.
LEASES Serviceconcessions which falloutside of the scopeof IFRIC 12 areassessedin terms of IFRIC 4 Determiningwhether an arrangementcontains alease.
Whereit is assessedthat the serviceconcession does contain alease, the concession is consideredas  an operatingleasein terms of IAS 17 Leases.
UnderIAS 17, afinanceleaseis aleasethat transfers substantially allthe risks  ownership of an asset.
BABCOCK & BROWN PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS LIMITED 39
