Notes totheConsolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
 Policies continued Rentalincome from operatingleasesis recognisedon astraight line basisover the term of the relevantlease.
Initial directcosts incurredin negotiating andarrangingan  the carryingamount of the leasedasset andrecognisedon astraight line basisover the leaseterm.
When the benefitsandrisks with the asset residewith the PFI projectcompany these assets  the balancesheet as property, plant andequipmentat cost less  .
Depreciationis calculatedover the lifeof the concession or specificasset lifeif shorter.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY In the processof applyingthe Groupsaccounting policies, which aredescribedin note 3, managementhas madethe following judgementsthat have the most significant effecton the amounts recognisedin the financialstatements.
If appropriateassets  availablefor saleto loans andreceivables typicallyat the endof the construction phase, as which point the asset willberevaluedto its amortised cost.
Anyamounts in equityin relation to the asset on  the profit andloss over the remaininglifeof the financialasset.
ADOPTION OF IFRIC 12 In accordancewith best practice, the Directors have decidedto earlyadoptthe principlesof the International FinancialReporting Interpretations Committee Interpretation 12 IFRIC 12.
Aspartof this process  was assessedto determinewhether it fallswithin the scopeof IFRIC 12.
Serviceconcessions fallwithin the scopewherethe grantor controls or regulateswhat servicesthe operator must providewith the infrastructure, to whom it must providethem, andthe price:andthe grantor controls, through ownership,  or otherwise, any significant residualinterest in the infrastructure at the endof the servicearrangement.
Following this reviewit was determinedthat the majority of the PFI concessions controlled fallwithin this scope.
Serviceconcessions aredeterminedto befinancialassets wherethe operator has acontractual right to receivecash or another financialasset from or at the directionof the grantor.
Alternatively, serviceconcessions aredeterminedto beintangibleassets to the extent the operator has acontractual right to chargeusers of the publicservices.
 aredetermined to contain both of these elements, .
Themajority of PFI concessions which fallwithin the scopeof IFRIC 12 areconsideredto befinancialassets on the basisthat substantially allof the unitary chargeis receivedfrom the grantor on an availabilitybasis.
One of the GroupsPFI concessions fallsto beaccounted for using the bifurcatedmodel, whereafinancialasset is recognisedon the basisthat substantially allof the unitary chargeis receivedfrom the grantor on an  intangibleasset in relation to the right to charge users of the infrastructure asset on the demandbasis.
Underthe guidanceof IAS 39, FinancialInstruments: Measurement andRecognition, the financialasset is accounted for as either aloan andreceivableor as an availablefor salefinancialasset.
Aloan andreceivableis  determinablepayments andthe operator  allof its initial investment, other than becauseof credit deterioration.
Financialassets that do not meet these  availablefor salefinancialassets.
Service concessions which have future significant  areclassifiedas availablefor salefinancialassets as the timing andamount of future payments andreceiptsarenot necessarilyfixed.
TheDirectorsareof the opinion that loans andreceivablesis the  treatment for the majority of these financialassets, dueto the nature of the .
FINANCIAL ASSETS Thefairvalue duringthe construction phase of financialassets is  the construction spendplus financialincome less availabilitypayments receivedfrom the grantor.
Thefairvalue duringthe operational phase of financialassets has  future cash flows at an appropriatediscount rateandwith referenceto recentmarket transactions.
Thediscount ratesutilisedto discount future cash flows  the 15 year giltyieldat 31 December2008.
Thepremiumtakes into account severalfactors, includingbut not limitedto, the , the periodof operation andhistorical track record.
