38 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 October 2008 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
These comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, together with interpretations of the International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee IFRIC approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, to the extent that IFRS have been adopted by the European Union and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice the SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies the AIC in December 2005 is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, the directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis consistent with the recommendations of the SORP.
i Standards, amendments and interpretations becoming effective in the year to 31 October 2008: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure, and the complementary amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures, introduces new disclosures relating to financial instruments.
It does not have any impact on the classification and or valuation of the Groups or Companys financial instruments.
The additional disclosures in accordance with the standard are set out in note 16 to the financial statements.
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment prohibits impairment losses recognised in an interim period on goodwill or investments to be reversed at a subsequent balance sheet date.
This standard does not have any impact on the Group or Companys financial statements.
ii Standards, amendments and interpretations becoming effective in the year to 31 October 2008 but not relevant to the Group or Company: IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions.
IFRIC 14, IAS 19 the limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction.
iii Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that become effective in future accounting periods and have not been adopted early by the Group or Company: IAS 23 Amendment Borrowing costs effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendment to the standard is still subject to endorsement by the European Union.
It requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset.
The Group has no qualifying assets but expects to apply the standard from 1 November 2009 if it becomes applicable.
IFRS 8 Operating segments effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 and aligns segment reporting with the requirements of the US standard SFAS 131 Disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information.
The new standard requires a management approach, under which segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
The Group expects to apply IFRS 8 from 1 November 2009.
The impact is unclear at present.
