64 64 The Bankers Investment T The Bankers Investment Tr rust PLC ust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 Report & Financial Statements 2008 Investor Information Results Dividends Half year announced June Ordinary shares: Full year announced January First interim paid end May Second interim paid end August The Report and Financial Statements are posted to Third interim paid end November shareholders in January and the AGM is held in London in Final paid end February late February.
Debenture stock interest Share Price Information 1 10 2% debenture stock 2016 and 8% debenture stock 2023 The market price of the Companys ordinary shares is published in paid on 30 April and 31 October.
The Financial Times and other leading newspapers.
The share price and details of the Companys performance can be found on Total Expense Ratio the following websites: www.
com Total Expense Ratio is defined here as the total annual pre tax and www.
com operating expenses management fee and other administration costs expressed as a percentage of average shareholders The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List SEDOL code is funds over the year.
The Financial Times also provides on a daily basis an estimate Investing in Bankers of the net asset value and of the discount premium.
Ordinary shares may be bought directly through Halifax Share Dealing.
In addition, they may be bought or sold directly A brief history through a stockbroker, accountant, other independent The Company was incorporated in 1888.
Since seven of the nine financial adviser or through a number of banks or building original directors were bankers by profession, the name The societies who are also providing this service.
Bankers Investment Trust, Limited was considered appropriate.
The Company has paid dividends on the equity capital every year Disability since incorporation except in the years 1892 and 1893.
Copies of this Report and Financial Statement or other documents issued by the Company are available from the Nominee Code Company Secretary.
The Bankers Investment Trust PLC undertakes to provide If needed, copies can be made available in a variety of formats, copies of shareholder communications to nominee either Braille or on audio tape or larger type as appropriate.
operators who have indicated in advance a wish to receive them, for the purpose of distribution to their customers.
You can contact our registrars, Equiniti Limited, who have installed textphones to allow speech and hearing impaired Nominee operators are encouraged to advise investors people who have their own textphone to contact them directly that they are able to attend meetings and to speak at by ringing 0870 600 3950 without the need for an meetings when invited by the Chairman.
Specially trained operators are available Investors through Itshenderson receive all shareholder during normal business hours to answer queries via this service.
communications, an invitation to the AGM and a Voting Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator Instruction Form to facilitate voting.
provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf People you Capital Gains Tax should dial 18001 followed by the number you wish to dial.
The calculation of the tax on chargeable gains will depend on personal circumstances.
If you are in any doubt about your personal tax position, you are recommended to contact your professional adviser.
The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Investor Information continued Directors Registrars Richard D Brewster Chairman UK Registrar Richard R J Burns Equiniti Limited, Richard W Killingbeck Holm Oak Business Park, Francis I Sumner Senior Independent Director Martlets Way, David G Thomas Goring by Sea, Matthew W J Thorne Worthing, West Sussex BN12 4QY Audit Committee Telephone: 0870 600 3970 David G Thomas Chairman Objectives Richard Killingbeck To achieve long term asset growth in excess of There is now a range of shareholder information on line.
You Francis I Sumner can check your holding and find practical help on transferring the FTSE All-Share Index.
Matthew W J Thorne shares or updating your details at www.
co. uk Management Engagement Committee Richard D Brewster Chairman New Zealand Registrar Richard R J Burns Computershare Investor Services Limited, Richard W Killingbeck Private Bag 92119, To achieve regular dividend growth in excess of the Francis I Sumner Auckland 1142, New Zealand David G Thomas Telephone: New Zealand 64 09 488 8777 increase in the Retail Prices Index.
Matthew W J Thorne Stockbrokers Nominations Committee UK Richard D Brewster Chairman JP Morgan Cazenove, Richard R J Burns 20 Moorgate, Francis I Sumner London EC2R 6DA Policy To achieve both these objectives by investing in a Richard W Killingbeck New Zealand Charities Committee broadly diversified international portfolio of shares.
First NZ Capital Securities, Francis I Sumner Chairman Level 20, ANZ Centre, Richard D Brewster 23-29 Albert Street, Investment Manager PO Box 5333, Henderson Global Investors Limited is Auckland, authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority To incentivise the manager according to New Zealand and is represented by Alex Crooke performance, measured against a composite index.
Solicitors Secretary Norton Rose, Henderson Secretarial Services Limited 3 More London, represented by Wendy King FCIS Riverside, Registered Number London SE1 2AQ Registered in England No.
26351C Custodian Registered Office BNP Paribas Securities Services Limited, 201 Bishopsgate, 55 Moorgate, London EC2M 3AE London EC2R 6PA Telephone: 020 7818 1818 Halifax Share Dealing Limited Independent Auditors Lovell Park Road,  LLP, Leeds LS1 1NS Hays Galleria, Telephone: 0845 609 408 1 Hays Lane, London SE1 2RD Henderson ISAs Henderson Global Investors Limited, Block C Western House, Lynch Wood Business Park, Peterborough PE2 6BP Telephone: 0800 832 832 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 October 2008 HGI9201 2008 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 October 2008 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC is managed by This report is printed on 9lives, a paper containing 55% recycled fibre & 45% FSC accredited virgin fibre.
Pulps used are elemental chlorine free manufactured at a mill accredited with the ISO 14001 environmental management system.
The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Cert no.
