24 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 Report of the Directors continued The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the independent financial adviser, authorised under the Company at the beginning and end of the financial year are Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have shown in the table on page 23.
Mr M W Thorne held 10,000 sold or transferred all of your voting rights in the shares when he was appointed a director on 27 November Company, please forward this document with its 2008.
Since the year end, Mr Brewster became interested in a accompanying form of proxy at once to the purchaser or further 1,316 shares due to the reinvestment of dividends.
transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for Directors Indemnity onward transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in The AGM will be held on Thursday 26 February 2009 respect of the directors.
The Companys Articles of Association at 12 noon.
The Notice of Meeting is set out on pages 61 provide, subject to the provisions of UK legislation, an indemnity and 62. for directors in respect of costs which they may incur relating to the defence of any proceedings brought against them arising Authority to Allot Shares and Disapply Pre-emption out of their positions as directors, in which they are acquitted or Rights judgement is given in their favour by the Court.
On 27 February 2008 the directors were granted authority to allot a limited number of authorised but unissued ordinary Substantial Share Interests shares.
This authority will expire at the forthcoming AGM in Declarations of interests in the voting rights of the Company, February 2009.
Authority was also given to the directors to at 15 January 2009, are set out below.
allot securities of a limited value for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in accordance with Shareholder % of voting rights statutory pre-emption procedures.
This too will expire at the F&C Asset Management 5.03 AGM in February 2009.
Legal & General 4.06 Appropriate resolutions to renew both authorities will be Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management 3.01 proposed at the 2009 AGM and are set out in full in the In addition, the Board is aware that, at 31 October 2008, Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 61 and 62.
An 14.3% of the issued share capital was held on behalf of ordinary resolution will be proposed to authorise the participants in the Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan and directors to allot shares up to a maximum aggregate 2.5% on behalf of participants in the Henderson ISAs.
nominal amount of 1,413,872 being 5% of the issued share capital as at the date of the Notice of the AGM.
A The participants in these plans are given the opportunity special resolution will also be proposed to give the directors to instruct the relevant nominee company to exercise the authority to allot securities for cash on a non pre-emptive voting rights appertaining to their shares in respect of all basis up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of general meetings of the Company.
In accordance with the 1,413,872 being 5% of the Companys issued share revised terms and conditions, issued by Henderson, capital as at the date of the Notice of the AGM.
Henderson has stated that it will instruct its nominee company to exercise the voting rights of any shares held The directors do not intend to allot shares pursuant to these through the plans that have not been exercised by the authorities other than to take advantage of opportunities in individual participants in these plans.
It will do so by voting the market as they arise and only if they believe it to be for or against all resolutions to be put at all general advantageous to the Companys existing shareholders to do meetings of the Company or by withholding votes on such so and when it would not result in any dilution of NAV per resolutions pro rata to the aggregate voting instructions for share, the NAV being calculated with debt at fair value.
each resolution received from those participants who have If renewed, both of these authorities will expire at the chosen to exercise their voting rights.
Annual General Meeting AGM Authority to Make Market Purchases of the Companys The following information is important and requires Own Shares your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt about At the AGM held on 27 February 2008, the Company was the action you should take, you should consult an
