28 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, financial position of the Company and the Group and to the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Company law requires the directors to prepare financial Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and have prepared the Group and parent Company financial hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and on page 19 of this Annual Report, confirms that, to the best of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
of their knowledge: In preparing those financial statements, the directors are the Group financial statements, which have been prepared required to: in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them loss of the Group: and consistently: the Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and development and performance of the business and the prudent: position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be For and on behalf of the Board supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
R D Brewster Chairman The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 22 January 2009 records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the The financial statements are published on the www.
com website, which is a website maintained by the Companys Manager, Henderson Global Investors Limited Henderson.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by Henderson or any of its subsidiaries is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of Henderson.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
