The Bankers Investment T The Bankers Investment Tr rust PLC ust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 Report & Financial Statements 2008 61 61 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and twenty-first Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the Annual General Meeting of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC meaning of Section 94 of the said Act for cash at a price not will be held on the 12th floor, 201 Bishopsgate, London EC2M less than the then prevailing net asset value per share 3AE on Thursday 26 February 2009 at 12 noon for the pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 10 as if subtransaction of the following business: section 1 of Section 89 of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment, PROVIDED THAT this power shall expire upon 1 To receive the report of the directors and the audited the renewal of this authority or at the conclusion of the next financial statements for the year ended 31 October 2008.
Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of 2 To approve the directors remuneration report for the year this resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry ended 31 October 2008. make an offer or agreement which would or might require securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may 3 To declare a final dividend.
allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or 4 To appoint Mr M W J Thorne as a director.
agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
5 To re-appoint Mr R D Brewster as a director.
12 THAT the Company be and it is hereby generally and 6 To re-appoint Mr F I Sumner as a director.
unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Companies Act 7 To re-appoint Mr R R J Burns as a director.
1985 of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the 8 To re-appoint  LLP as registered Company Shares provided that: auditors to the Company.
a the maximum percentage of ordinary share capital 9 To authorise the directors to determine the auditors which may be purchased is 14.99% equivalent to remuneration.
16,955,162 shares at the date of this notice : Special Business b the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may To consider, and if thought fit, pass the following resolutions: be paid for a Share shall not exceed 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the Shares as taken As an Ordinary Resolution from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 10 THAT the Board be and it is hereby generally and five business days preceding the date of purchase: unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of the c the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of be paid for a Share shall be 25p, being the nominal value Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate per Share: and nominal amount of 1,413,872 being 5% of the issued share capital at the date of this notice PROVIDED THAT this d this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual Annual General Meeting of the Company save that the General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Company may, before such expiry, enter into a contract to resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry purchase Shares under which such purchases will or may make an offer or agreement which would or might require be completed or executed wholly or partly after the relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the expiration of this authority and may make a purchase of Board may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an Shares in pursuance of any such contract.
offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had By order of the Board not expired and THAT the directors may only use this W J King FCIS authority when it is advantageous to the Companys For and on behalf of existing shareholders.
Henderson Secretarial Services Limited Secretary As Special Resolutions 22 January 2009 11 THAT, subject to resolution 10 being passed, the Board be and Registered Office: it is hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the 201 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AE 62 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes 1.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 only those shareholders registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 12 noon on 24 February 2009 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
Changes in entries on the relevant register of securities after 12 noon on 24 February 2009 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Pursuant to section 324 of the Companies Act 2006 a member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on his behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed and to be valid must be lodged with the Companys registrars not less than forty-eight hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
This right does not apply to persons nominated to receive information rights pursuant to section 146 of the Companies Act 2006.
Persons nominated to receive information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 have been sent this notice of meeting and are hereby informed, in accordance with Section 149 2 of the Companies Act 2006, that they may have the right under an agreement with the registered member by whom they were nominated to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for this meeting.
If they have such right or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Nominated persons should contact the registered member by whom they were nominated in respect of these arrangements.
By attending the meeting, members and their proxies and representatives are understood by the Company to have agreed to receive any communications relating to the Companys securities made at the meeting.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of appointment letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
This notice is sent for information only to debenture stock holders who are not entitled to attend or vote at the meeting.
Total voting rights as at 22 January 2009, being the last practicable date prior to publication of this notice, were 28,277,456 equal to 1 vote for each 1 nominal value of ordinary shares held.
