38 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 October 2008 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
These comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, together with interpretations of the International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee IFRIC approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, to the extent that IFRS have been adopted by the European Union and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice the SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies the AIC in December 2005 is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, the directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis consistent with the recommendations of the SORP.
i Standards, amendments and interpretations becoming effective in the year to 31 October 2008: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure, and the complementary amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures, introduces new disclosures relating to financial instruments.
It does not have any impact on the classification and or valuation of the Groups or Companys financial instruments.
The additional disclosures in accordance with the standard are set out in note 16 to the financial statements.
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment prohibits impairment losses recognised in an interim period on goodwill or investments to be reversed at a subsequent balance sheet date.
This standard does not have any impact on the Group or Companys financial statements.
ii Standards, amendments and interpretations becoming effective in the year to 31 October 2008 but not relevant to the Group or Company: IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions.
IFRIC 14, IAS 19 the limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction.
iii Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that become effective in future accounting periods and have not been adopted early by the Group or Company: IAS 23 Amendment Borrowing costs effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendment to the standard is still subject to endorsement by the European Union.
It requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset.
The Group has no qualifying assets but expects to apply the standard from 1 November 2009 if it becomes applicable.
IFRS 8 Operating segments effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 and aligns segment reporting with the requirements of the US standard SFAS 131 Disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information.
The new standard requires a management approach, under which segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
The Group expects to apply IFRS 8 from 1 November 2009.
The impact is unclear at present.
The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 39 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued b Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and of its wholly owned subsidiary undertaking, The Army & Navy Investment Company Limited.
The intra-group balances are eliminated on consolidation.
c Presentation of Consolidated Income Statement In order to better reflect the activities of an investment trust company, and in accordance with guidance issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Consolidated Income Statement between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the Consolidated Income Statement.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment company under section 266 of the Companies Act 1985, net capital returns may not be distributed by way of dividend.
Additionally, the net revenue is the measure the directors believe appropriate in assessing the Groups compliance with certain requirements set out in section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988. d Investments held at fair value through profit or loss All investments are designated upon initial recognition, and subsequently are held at fair value through profit or loss.
Assets are fide-recognised at the trade date of the disposal.
Proceeds will be measured at fair value, which will be regarded as the proceeds of sale less any transaction costs.
The fair value of the financial instruments is based on their quoted bid price at the balance sheet date, without deduction of the estimated future selling costs.
Unquoted investments are valued by the directors using primary valuation techniques such as earnings multiples, recent transactions and net assets.
Where fair value cannot reliably be measured the investment will be carried at the previous reporting date value unless there is evidence that the investment has since been impaired, in which case the value will be reduced.
Changes in the fair value of investments held at fair value through profit or loss and gains and losses on disposal are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as Gains or losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss.
Also included within this caption are transaction costs in relation to the purchase or sale of investments, including the difference between the purchase price of an investment and its bid price at the date of purchase.
In its financial statements the Company recognises its investment in its subsidiary at fair value.
e Income Dividends receivable on equity shares are recognised as revenue for the year on an ex-dividend basis.
Special dividends are treated as revenue return or as capital return, depending on the facts of each individual case.
Income from debt securities is recognised using the effective interest rate method and is treated as revenue return.
The trading profits of the subsidiary undertaking, which represent realised gains and losses on the sale of current asset investments, are dealt with in the revenue return column of the Consolidated Income Statement as a revenue item.
Bank deposit interest, underwriting and stock lending income is accounted for on an accruals basis.
f Expenses All expenses and interest payable are accounted for on an accruals basis.
On the basis of the Boards estimate of the long term split of total income in the form of capital and revenue return of 70% and 30% respectively, the Company charges 70% of its finance costs and investment management fee to capital return.
All administration expenses are charged to the revenue return column of the Consolidated Income Statement.
Expenses which are incidental to the purchase or sale of an investment are charged to the capital return column of the Consolidated Income Statement and allocated to other capital reserves.
Any performance fees payable are allocated wholly to capital, reflecting the fact that they are attributable largely, if not wholly, to capital performance.
40 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued g Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Consolidated Income Statement: because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that were applicable at the balance sheet date.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against capital returns in the supplementary information in the Consolidated Income Statement is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses presented in the revenue return column of the Consolidated Income Statement, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital return column.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Investment trusts which have approval as such under section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 are not liable for taxation on capital gains.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Consolidated Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
h Dividends payable Interim dividends are recognised in the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends are not recognised until approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
i Foreign currency For the purposes of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each entity are expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and the presentational currency of the Group.
Sterling is the functional currency because it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Transactions recorded in overseas currencies during the year are translated into sterling at the appropriate daily exchange rates.
Assets and liabilities denominated in overseas currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at that date.
j Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
k Borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs of debentures, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the Consolidated Income Statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
