Shareholder information C14170 Barclays B 315-326. qxp:B File 18 6 3 09 01:34 Page 315 Shareholder information Enhancing operational excellence Staying close to our customers Trinity Shopfit & Design Ltd is a successful shopfitting business based near Lincoln, run by Noel and Tracey Luther.
In June 2008 managing cash flow became a problem as the business was expanding quicker than they had planned.
We know the business well and have been working with the owners for many years and were able to quickly arrange a temporary increase in their overdraft facility.
This was followed up by a personal, out 4 of hours visit by their Barclays Local Business Manager, Susan Cadd, when a permanent solution was negotiated and secured.
This is just one of many examples of Barclays staying close to our small business customers in the difficult economic environment.
I have never known anyone spend their own time helping a business overcome problems like these.
"The dedicated and pragmatic approach from Barclays saved my business and has enabled us to keep growing Noel Luther 53 16' 54""N Lincoln, UK 12pm GMT C14170 Barclays B 315-326. qxp:B File 18 6 3 09 01:34 Page 316 Shareholder information Dividends on the ordinary shares of Barclays PLC Barclays PLC has paid dividends on its ordinary shares every year without interruption since its incorporation in 1896."
As announced on 13th October 2008, in the light of the new capital ratios agreed with the FSA and in recognition of the need to maximise capital resources in the current economic climate, the Board has concluded that it would not be appropriate to pay a final dividend for 2008.
The Board intends to resume dividend payments in the second half of 2009, at which time it is intended to pay dividends quarterly.
The dividends declared for each of the last five years were: Pence per 25p ordinary share 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Interim 11.50 11.50 10.50 9.20 8.25 Final 22.50 20.50 17.40 15.75 Total 11.50 34.00 31.00 26.60 24.00 US Dollars per 25p ordinary share 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Interim 0.20 0.23 0.20 0.16 0.15 Final 0.45 0.41 0.31 0.30 Total 0.20 0.68 0.61 0.47 0.45 The gross dividends applicable to an American Depositary Share ADS representing four ordinary shares, before deduction of withholding tax, are as follows: US Dollars per American Depositary Share 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Interim 0.82 0.93 0.80 0.65 0.60 Final 1.78 1.64 1.24 1.20 Total 0.82 2.71 2.44 1.89 1.80 Dividends expressed in Dollars are translated at the Noon Buying Rates in New York City for cable transfers in Pounds Sterling as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York the Noon Buying Rate for the days on which dividends are paid.
No representation is made that Pounds Sterling amounts have been, or could have been, or could be, converted into Dollars at these rates.
Trading market for ordinary shares of Barclays PLC The nominal capital of Barclays PLC is divided into 13,996,000,000 ordinary shares of 25p each ordinary shares 0.4 million Sterling preference shares of 100 each, 0.4 million US Dollar preference shares of $100 each, 150 million US Dollar preference shares of $0.25 each, 0.4 million Euro preference shares of 100 each, 0.4 million Yen preference shares of 10,000 each and 1 million staff shares of 1 each.
At the close of business on 31st December 2008, 8,371,830,617 ordinary shares were outstanding.
The principal trading market for Barclays PLC ordinary shares is the London Stock Exchange.
Ordinary share listings were also obtained on the Tokyo Stock Exchange with effect from 1st August 1986 and the New York Stock Exchange NYSE with effect from 9th September 1986.
During the year, the Company fide-listed from the Tokyo Stock Exchange with effect from 28th June 2008.
Trading on the NYSE is in the form of ADSs under the symbol BCS.
Each ADS represents four ordinary shares and is evidenced by an American Depositary Receipt ADR.
The ADR depositary is J P Morgan Chase Bank, N. A.
Details of trading activity are published in the stock tables of leading daily newspapers in the US.
There were 926 ADR holders and 1,528 recorded holders of ordinary shares with US addresses at 31st December 2008, whose shareholdings represented approximately 4.22% of total outstanding ordinary shares on that date.
Since certain of the ordinary shares and ADRs were held by brokers or other nominees, the number of recorded holders in the US may not be representative of the number of beneficial holders or of their country of residence.
| 316 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Shareholder information C14170 Barclays B 315-326. qxp:B File 18 6 3 09 01:34 Page 317 The following table shows the high and low sales price for the ordinary shares during the periods indicated, based on mid-market prices at close of business on the London Stock Exchange and the high and low sale price for ADSs as reported on the NYSE composite tape.
It is emphasised that past performance cannot be relied upon as a guide to future performance.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 317 C14170 Barclays B 315-326. qxp:B File 18 6 3 09 01:34 Page 318 Shareholder information Memorandum and Articles of Association e that the Director underwrite any issue of securities of the Company or any of its subsidiaries : The Company was incorporated in England on 20th July 1896 under the Companies Acts 1862 to 1890 as a company limited by shares and was f concerning any other company in which the Director is interested as an officer or creditor or shareholder but, broadly, only if he she reregistered in 1982 as a public limited company under the Companies Acts 1948 to 1980.
The Company is registered under company number together with his her connected persons is directly or indirectly interested in less than 1% of either any class of the issued equity 48839.
The Company was reregistered as Barclays PLC on 1st January 1985. share capital or of the voting rights of that company: and The objects of the Company are set out in full in clause 4 of its g concerning any other arrangement for the benefit of employees Memorandum of Association which provides, among other things, that of the Company or any other member of the Group under which the Companys objects are to carry on business as an investment and the Director benefits or stands to benefit in a similar manner to the holding company and the business of banking in all its aspects.
employees concerned and which does not give the Director any advantage which the employees to whom the arrangement relates Directors i The minimum number of Directors excluding alternate Directors is would not receive.
There is no maximum limit.
There is no age limit for Directors.
x A Director may not vote or be counted in the quorum on any resolution ii Excluding executive remuneration and any other entitlement to which concerns his her own employment or appointment to any office of remuneration for extra services including service on board committees the Company or any other company in which the Company is interested.
under the Articles, a Director is entitled to a fee at a rate determined xi Subject to applicable legislation, the provisions described in subby the Board but the aggregate fees paid to all Directors shall not exceed paragraphs ix and x may be relaxed or suspended by an ordinary 1,000,000 per annum or such higher amount as may be approved resolution of the members of the Company or any applicable by an ordinary resolution of the Company.
Each Director is entitled to governmental or other regulatory body.
reimbursement for all travelling, hotel and other expenses properly incurred by him her in or about the performance of his her duties.
xii A Director is required to hold an interest in ordinary shares having a nominal value of at least 500, which currently equates to 2,000 iii No Director may act either himself herself or through his her firm Ordinary Shares unless restricted from acquiring or holding such interest as an auditor of the Company.
A Director may hold any other office of the by any applicable law or regulation or any applicable governmental or Company on such terms as the Board shall determine.
A Director may act before acquiring those shares iv At each annual general meeting AGM of the Company, one third of but must acquire the qualification shares within two months from the Directors rounded down are required to retire from office by rotation his her appointment.
Where a Director is unable to acquire the requisite and may offer themselves for re-election.
The Directors so retiring are number of shares within that time owing to law, regulation or requirement those who have been longest in office and in the case of equality of of any governmental or other relevant authority, he she must acquire the service length are selected by lot.
Other than a retiring Director, no person shares as soon as reasonably practicable once the restriction s end.
shall unless recommended by the Board be eligible for election unless xiii The Board may exercise all of the powers of the Company to borrow a member notifies the Company Secretary in advance of his her intention money, to mortgage or charge its undertaking, property and uncalled to propose a person for election.
capital and to issue debentures and other securities.
v The Board has the power to appoint additional Directors or to fill a Classes of share casual vacancy amongst the Directors.
Any Director so appointed holds The Company only has Ordinary Shares in issue.
However, the Company office until the next AGM, when he she may offer himself herself for has authorised but unissued preference shares of 100, $100, $0.25, re-election.
He she is not taken into account in determining the number 100 and 10,000 each together, the Preference Shares which may of Directors retiring by rotation.
pursuant to a resolution passed by the shareholders of the Company at vi The Board may appoint any Director to any executive position or the AGM be issued by the Board from time to time in one or more series employment in the Company on such terms as they determine.
with such rights and subject to such restrictions and limitations as the Board may determine.
The Company also has authorised but unissued vii A Director may appoint either another Director or some other person staff shares of 1 each.
The Articles of Association contain provisions to approved by the Board to act as his her alternate with power to attend the following effect: Board meetings and generally to exercise the functions of the appointing Director in his her absence other than the power to appoint an alternate.
i Dividends Subject to the provisions of the Articles and applicable legislation, the viii From 1st October 2008, the Board may authorise any matter in Company in General Meeting may declare dividends on the Ordinary Shares relation to which a Director has, or can have, a direct interest that conflicts, by ordinary resolution, but such dividend may not exceed the amount or possibly may conflict with, the Companys interests.
Only Directors who recommended by the Board.
The Board may also pay interim or final have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to authorise dividends if it appears they are justified by the Companys financial position.
the relevant matter and they may impose limits or conditions when giving Each Preference Share confers the right to a non-cumulative preferential authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
dividend Preference Dividend payable in such currency at such rates ix A Director may hold positions with or be interested in other companies whether fixed or calculated by reference to or in accordance with a and, subject to legislation applicable to the Company and the FSAs specified procedure or mechanism, on such dates and on such other requirements, may contract with the Company or any other company terms as may be determined by the Board prior to allotment thereof.
in which the Company is interested.
A Director may not vote or count towards the quorum on any resolution concerning any proposal in which The Preference Shares rank in regard to payment of dividend in priority he she or any person connected with him her has a material interest to the holders of Ordinary Shares and any other class of shares in the other than by virtue of his her interest in securities of the Company Company ranking junior to the Preference Shares.
or if he she has a duty which conflicts or may conflict with the interests Dividends may be paid on the Preference Shares if, in the opinion of the of the Company, unless the resolution relates to any proposal: Board, the Company has sufficient distributable profits, after payment in a to indemnify a Director or provide him her with a guarantee or full or the setting aside of a sum to provide for all dividends payable on or in the case of shares carrying a cumulative right to dividends, before security in respect of money lent by him her to, or any obligation incurred by him her or any other person for the benefit of or at the relevant dividend payment date on any class of shares in the Company ranking pari passu with or in priority to the relevant series of Preference the request of, the Company or any other member of the Group : b to indemnify or give security or a guarantee to a third party in respect Shares as regards participation in the profits of the Company.
of a debt or obligation of the Company or any other member of the If the Board considers that the distributable profits of the Company Group for which the Director has personally assumed responsibility: available for distribution are insufficient to cover the payment in full of c to obtain insurance for the benefit of Directors: Preference Dividends, Preference Dividends shall be paid to the extent d involving the acquisition by a Director of any securities of the Company of the distributable profits on a pro rata basis.
pursuant to an offer to existing holders of securities or to the public: | 318 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Shareholder information C14170 Barclays B 315-326. qxp:B File 18 6 3 09 01:34 Page 319 Notwithstanding the above, the Board may, at its absolute discretion, respect of one class of shares only, and it is in favour of not more than four determine that any Preference Dividend which would otherwise be transferees except in the case of executors or trustees of a member.
payable may either not be payable at all or only payable in part.
Preference Shares may be represented by share warrants to bearer or If any Preference Dividend on a series of Preference Shares is not paid, or be in registered form.
is only paid in part, for the reasons described above, holders of Preference Preference Shares represented by share warrants to bearer are transferred Shares will not have a claim in respect of such nonpayment.
by delivery of the relevant warrant.
Preference Shares in registered form If any dividend on a series of Preference Shares is not paid in full on the shall be transferred in writing in any usual or other form approved by the relevant dividend payment date, a dividend restriction shall apply.
The Board and executed by or on behalf of the transferor.
The Companys dividend restriction means that, subject to certain exceptions, neither registrar shall register such transfers of Preference Shares in registered the Company nor Barclays Bank may a pay a dividend on, or b redeem, form by making the appropriate entries in the register of Preference Shares.
purchase, reduce or otherwise acquire, any of their respective ordinary iv Return of Capital and Liquidation shares, other preference shares or other share capital ranking equal or In the event of any return of capital by reduction of capital or on liquidation, the junior to the relevant series of Preference Shares until the earlier of such holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive such capital in proportion time as the Company next pays in full a dividend on the relevant series to the amounts paid up or credited as paid up on the shares of each class.
of Preference Shares or the date on which all of the relevant series of Preference Shares are redeemed.
Each Preference Share shall confer, in the event of a winding up or any return of capital by reduction of capital other than, unless otherwise provided by All unclaimed dividends payable in respect of any share may be invested their terms of issue, a redemption or purchase by the Company of any of or otherwise made use of by the Board for the benefit of the Company its issued shares, or a reduction of share capital, the right to receive out of until claimed.
If a dividend is not claimed after 12 years of it becoming the surplus assets of the Company available for distribution amongst the payable, it is forfeited and reverts to the Company.
members and in priority to the holders of the Ordinary Shares and any other The Board may although it currently does not, with the approval of an shares in the Company ranking junior to the relevant series of Preference ordinary resolution of the Company, offer shareholders the right to choose Shares and pari passu with any other class of Preference Shares, repayment to receive an allotment of additional fully paid Ordinary Shares instead of of the amount paid up or treated as paid up in respect of the nominal value cash in respect of all or part of any dividend.
of the Preference Share together with any premium which was paid or treated as paid when the Preference Share was issued in addition to an ii Voting amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends.
Every member who is present in person or by proxy, or represented at any general meeting of the Company and who is entitled to vote has one vote v Redemption and Purchase on a show of hands.
On a poll, every member who is present or represented Subject to applicable legislation and the rights of the other shareholders, has one vote for every share held.
Any joint holder may vote in respect of any share may be issued on terms that it is, at the option of the Company jointly owned shares, but the vote of the senior holder as determined by or the holder of such share, redeemable.
While the Company currently has order in the share register shall take precedence.
If any sum payable no redeemable shares in issue, any series of Preference Shares issued in remains unpaid in relation to a members shareholding, that member the future will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the is not entitled to vote that share or exercise any other right in relation Company on a date not less than five years after the date on which such to a meeting of the Company unless the Board otherwise determine.
series of Preference Shares was first issued.
The Company may purchase its own shares subject to the provisions of applicable legislation, the If any member, or any other person appearing to be interested in any of Articles and the approval of any class of convertible shares in issue the Companys Ordinary Shares, is served with a notice under Section 793 by special resolution or written consent of 75% of such class.
of the Companies Act 2006 and does not supply the Company with the information required in the notice, then the Board, in its absolute discretion, vi Calls on capital may direct that that member shall not be entitled to attend or vote at any The Directors may make calls upon the members in respect of any monies meeting of the Company.
A person upon whom a call is made remains liable even if the shares in respect of which the call is made have been transferred.
The Board may further direct that if the shares of the defaulting member Interest will be chargeable on any unpaid amount called at a rate determined represent 0.25% or more of the issued shares of the relevant class, that by the Board of not more than 20%.
dividends or other monies payable on those shares shall be retained by the Company until the direction ceases to have effect and that no transfer of If a member fails to pay any call in full following notice from the Board those shares shall be registered other than certain specified approved that such failure will result in forfeiture of the relevant shares, such shares transfers.
A direction ceases to have effect seven days after the Company including any dividends declared but not paid may be forfeited by a has received the information requested, or when the Company is notified resolution of the Board, and will become the property of the Company.
that an approved transfer to a third party has occurred, or as the Board Forfeiture shall not absolve a previous member for amounts payable by otherwise determines.
him her which may continue to accrue interest.
iii Transfers The Company also has a lien over all partly paid shares of the Company for Ordinary Shares may be held in either certificated or uncertificated form.
all monies payable or called on that share and over the debts and liabilities Certificated Ordinary Shares shall be transferred in writing in any usual or of a member to the Company.
If any monies which are the subject of the other form approved by the Board and executed by or on behalf of the lien remain unpaid after a notice from the Board demanding payment, the transferor.
Transfers of uncertificated Ordinary Shares shall be made in Company may sell such shares.
accordance with the applicable regulations.
The Board may make any vii Variation of Rights arrangements to regulate and evidence the transfer of Ordinary Shares The rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the sanction as they consider fit in accordance with applicable legislation and the rules of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the 4 of the FSA.
Registration of Ordinary Shares may be suspended, subject to applicable The rights of shares shall not unless expressly provided by the rights legislation, for such periods as the Board may determine but for not more attached to such shares be deemed varied by the creation of further than 30 days in any calendar year.
shares ranking equally with them.
The Board is not bound to register a transfer of partly paid Ordinary Shares, Annual and other general meetings or fully paid shares in exceptional circumstances approved by the FSA.
The The Company is required to hold an annual general meeting in addition Board may also decline to register an instrument of transfer of certificated to such other general meetings as the Directors think fit.
The type of the Ordinary Shares unless it is duly stamped and deposited at the prescribed meeting will be specified in the notice calling it.
Under the Companies Act place and accompanied by the share certificate s and such other evidence 2006, the AGM must be held within six months of the financial year end.
as reasonably required by the Board to evidence right to transfer, it is in A general meeting may be convened by the Board on requisition in accordance with the applicable legislation.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 319 C14170 Barclays B 315-326. qxp:B File 18 6 3 09 01:34 Page 320 Shareholder information In the case of an AGM, 21 clear days notice is required.
In other cases The Company may, by ordinary resolution, upon the recommendation of the Board capitalise all or any part of an amount standing to the credit of a 14 clear days notice is required.
The notice must be in writing and must specify the place, the day and the hour of the meeting, and the general reserve or fund to be set free for distribution provided that amounts from the share premium account, capital redemption reserve or any profits not nature of the business to be transacted.
A notice convening a meeting to pass a special resolution shall specify the intention to propose the available for distribution should be applied only in paying up unissued shares issued to members and no unrealised profits shall be applied in resolution as such.
The accidental failure to give notice of a general meeting or the non-receipt of such notice will not invalidate the paying up debentures of the Company or any amount unpaid on any share in the capital of the Company.
Subject as noted above, all shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at Indemnity general meetings.
The Articles do, however, provide that arrangements Subject to applicable legislation, every current and former Director or other may be made for simultaneous attendance at a general meeting at a officer of the Company other than any person engaged by the company place other than that specified in the notice of meeting, in which case as auditor shall be indemnified by the Company against any liability in shareholders may be excluded from the specified place.
relation to the Company, other than broadly any liability to the Company or a member of the Group, or any criminal or regulatory fine.
Holders of Preference Shares have no right to receive notice of, attend or Officers of the Group vote at, any general meetings of the Company as a result of holding Preference Shares.
Peter Estlin Group Financial Controller Appointed 2008 Limitations on foreign shareholders Lawrence Dickinson Company Secretary Appointed 2002 There are no restrictions imposed by the Companys Memorandum or Patrick Gonsalves Joint Secretary, Articles of Association or subject to the effect of any economic sanctions Barclays Bank PLC Appointed 2002 that may be in force from time to time by current UK laws which relate Mark Harding Group General Counsel Appointed 2003 only to non-residents of the UK and which limit the rights of such nonRobert Le Blanc Group Risk Director Appointed 2004 residents to hold or when entitled to do so vote the Companys Ordinary Shares.
Taxation The following is a summary of the principal tax consequences for holders Notices of Ordinary Shares of Barclays PLC, Preference Shares of the Bank, or ADSs A document or information may be sent by the Company in hard copy representing such Ordinary Shares or Preference Shares, and who are form, electronic form, by being made available on a website, or by another citizens or residents of the UK or US, or otherwise who are subject to UK tax means agreed with the recipient.
A document or information may only be or US federal income tax on a net income basis in respect of such securities, sent in electronic form to a person who has agreed to receive it in that that own the shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax purposes.
It is not, form or, in the case of a company, who has been deemed to have so agreed however, a comprehensive analysis of all the potential tax consequences for pursuant to applicable legislation.
A document or information may only be such holders, and it does not discuss the tax consequences of members of sent by being made available on a website if the recipient has agreed to special classes of holders subject to special rules or holders that, directly or receive it in that form or has been deemed to have so agreed pursuant to indirectly, hold 10% or more of Barclays voting stock.
Investors are advised applicable legislation, and has not revoked that agreement.
to consult their tax advisers regarding the tax implications of their In respect of joint holdings, documents or information shall be sent to particular holdings, including the consequences under applicable state the joint holder whose name stands first in the register.
and local law, and in particular whether they are eligible for the benefits of the Treaty, as defined below.
A member who having no registered address within the UK has not supplied an address in the UK at which documents or information may A US holder is a beneficial owner of shares or ADSs that is, for US federal be sent is not entitled to have documents or information sent to him her.
income tax purposes, i a citizen or resident of the US, ii a US domestic corporation, iii an estate whose income is subject to US federal income Alteration of share capital tax regardless of its source, or iv a trust if a US court can exercise primary The Company may, by way of ordinary resolution: supervision over the trusts administration and one or more US persons increase its share capital by a sum to be divided into shares of an amount are authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
prescribed by the resolution: Unless otherwise noted, the statements of tax laws set out below are consolidate and divide all or any of its share capital into shares of a larger based on the tax laws of the UK in force as at 27th February 2009 and nominal amount: are subject to any subsequent changes in UK law, in particular any announcements made in the Chancellors expected UK Budget in subject to legislation, sub-divide all or part of its shares into shares of April 2009. a smaller nominal amount and may decide by that resolution that the resulting shares have preference or other advantage or restrictions: and This section is also based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations, published rulings and cancel any shares which, at the date of the resolution, have not been court decisions the Code, and on the Double Taxation Convention between subscribed or agreed to have been subscribed for and diminish the the UK and the US as entered into force in March 2003 the Treaty, all of amount of its share capital by the amount of the shares so cancelled.
which are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
The Company may also, by special resolution, reduce its share capital This section is based in part upon the representations of the ADR or capital redemption reserve or any share premium account or other Depositary and the assumption that each obligation of the Deposit undistributable reserve in any manner authorised by legislation.
| 320 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Shareholder information C14170 Barclays B 315-326. qxp:B File 18 6 3 09 01:34 Page 321 Agreement and any related agreement will be performed in accordance Inheritance tax An individual may be liable to inheritance tax on the transfer of ordinary with its terms.
Where an individual is liable, inheritance tax For purposes of the Treaty, the Estate and Gift Tax Convention between may be charged on the amount by which the value of his or her estate is the United Kingdom and the United States, and the Code, the holders of reduced as a result of any transfer by way of gift or other gratuitous ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated as owners of the underlying ordinary transaction made by them or treated as made by them.
shares or preference shares, as the case may be.
Generally, exchanges of shares for ADRs and ADRs for shares will not be subject to US federal Taxation of US holders income tax or to UK capital gains tax.
Taxation of dividends Subject to PFIC rules discussed below, a US holder is subject to US federal Taxation of UK holders income taxation on the gross amount of any dividend paid by Barclays PLC Taxation of dividends or the Bank, as applicable, out of its current or accumulated earnings and In accordance with UK law, Barclays PLC and the Bank pay dividends on profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
Dividends ordinary shares and preference shares without any deduction or paid to a non-corporate US holder in taxable years beginning before withholding tax in respect of any taxes imposed by the UK government 1st January 2011 that constitute qualified dividend income will be taxable or any UK taxing authority.
to the holder at a maximum tax rate of 15%, provided that the holder has If the shareholder is a UK resident individual liable to income tax only at a holding period of the shares or ADSs of more than 60 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date or, in the the basic rate, then there will be no further tax liability in respect of the dividend received.
If, however, the individual shareholder is subject to case of preference shares or ADSs relating thereto, if the dividend is attributable to a period or periods aggregating over 366 days, provided income tax at the higher rate currently 40%, there will be a further liability to tax.
Higher rate taxpayers are taxable on dividend income at a that the holder holds the shares or ADSs for more than 90 days during the 181-day period beginning 90 days before the ex-dividend date and meets special rate currently 32.5% against which can be offset a tax credit of one-ninth of the cash dividend received.
Tax credits are not repayable to certain other holding period requirements.
Dividends paid by Barclays PLC or the Bank, as applicable, with respect to the ordinary or preference shareholders with no tax liability.
shares or ADSs will generally be qualified dividend income.
Taxation of shares under the Dividend Reinvestment Plan Where a shareholder elects to purchase shares using their cash dividend, A US holder will not be subject to UK withholding tax.
The US holder will the individual will be liable for income tax on dividends reinvested in the include in gross income for US federal income tax purposes the amount Plan on the same basis as if they had received the cash and arranged the of the dividend actually received from Barclays PLC or the Bank.
They should accordingly include the dividend must be included in income when the US holder, in the case of shares, received in their annual tax return in the normal way.
The tax or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives consequences for a UK individual are the same as described in Taxation the dividend, and will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction of dividends above.
generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
For foreign tax credit purposes, dividends will Taxation of capital gains generally be income from sources outside the United States and will, Where shares are disposed of by open market sale, a capital gain may result depending on a US holders circumstances, be either passive or general if the disposal proceeds exceed the sum of the base cost of the shares sold income for purposes of computing the foreign tax credit allowable to a and any other allowable deductions such as share dealing costs and US holder.
indexation relief up to 5th April 1998.
To arrive at the total base cost of any Barclays PLC shares held, the amount subscribed for rights taken up in The amount of the dividend distribution includable in income will be the US Dollar value of the pound Sterling payments made, determined at the 1985 and 1988 must be added to the cost of all other shares held.
For this purpose, current legislation permits the market valuation at 31st March spot Pound Sterling US Dollar rate on the date the dividend distribution is includable in income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact 1982 to be substituted for the original cost of shares purchased before that date.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange fluctuations during the period from the date the The calculations required to compute chargeable capital gains may dividend payment is includable in income to the date the payment is be complex.
Capital gains may also arise from the gifting of shares converted into US Dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss and, to connected parties such as relatives although not spouses or civil for foreign tax credit limitation purposes, from sources within the US partners and family trusts.
Shareholders are advised to consult their and will not be eligible for the special tax rate applicable to qualified personal financial adviser if further information regarding a possible tax dividend income.
liability in respect of their holdings of Barclays PLC shares is required.
Distributions in excess of current or accumulated earnings and profits, as Stamp duty determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a return Stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% is normally of capital to the extent of the US holders basis in the shares or ADSs and payable on the purchase price of shares acquired.
4 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 321 C14170 Barclays B 315-326. qxp:B File 18 6 3 09 01:34 Page 322 Shareholder information Taxation of capital gains Exchange controls and other limitations affecting security holders Subject to PFIC rules discussed below, generally, US holders will not be subject to UK tax, but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on Other than certain economic sanctions which may be in force from time to time, there are currently no UK laws, decrees or regulations which would the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares, preference shares or ADSs.
Capital gain of a noncorporate US holder that is recognised in taxable affect the transfer of capital or remittance of dividends, interest and other payments to holders of Barclays securities who are not residents of the UK.
years beginning before 1st January 2011 is generally taxed at a maximum rate of 15% where the holder has a holding period of greater than one There are also no restrictions under the Articles of Association of either Barclays PLC or the Bank, or subject to the effect of any such economic year.
The gain or loss will generally be income or loss from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
sanctions under current UK laws, which relate only to non-residents of the UK, and which limit the right of such non-residents to hold Barclays Taxation of premium on redemption or purchase of shares securities or, when entitled to vote, to do so.
No refund of tax will be available under the Treaty in respect of any premium paid on a redemption of preference shares by the Bank or Documents on display on a purchase by Barclays PLC of its own shares.
For US tax purposes, It is possible to read and copy documents that have been filed by redemption premium generally will be treated as an additional amount Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC with the US Securities and Exchange realised in the calculation of gain or loss.
Commission at the US Securities and Exchange Commissions office of Taxation of passive foreign investment companies PFICs Investor Education and Assistance located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549.
Please call the US Securities and Exchange Commission at Barclays PLC and the Bank believe that their respective shares and ADSs should not be treated as stock of a PFIC for US federal income tax 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms and their copy charges.
Filings with the US Securities and Exchange purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that is made annually and thus may be subject to change.
If Barclays PLC or the Bank Commission are also available to the public from commercial document retrieval services, and from the website maintained by the US Securities were to be treated as a PFIC, unless a US holder elects to be taxed annually on a mark-to-market basis with respect to the shares or ADSs, gain realised and Exchange Commission at www.
on the sale or other disposition of their shares or ADSs would in general not be treated as capital gain.
Instead, for a US holder, such gain and certain excess distributions would be treated as having been realised ratably over the holding period for the shares or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each such year to which the gain was allocated, together with an interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such year.
With certain exceptions, a US holders shares or ADSs will be treated as stock in a PFIC if Barclays PLC or the Bank was a PFIC at any time during such holders holding period in their shares or ADSs.
Dividends that a US holder receives from Barclays PLC or the Bank will not be eligible for the special tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income if Barclays PLC or the Bank are treated as a PFIC with respect to such US holder either in the taxable year of the distribution or the preceding taxable year, but instead will be taxable at rates applicable to ordinary income.
Stamp duty No UK stamp duty is payable on the transfer of an ADS, provided that the separate instrument of transfer is not executed in, and remains at all times outside, the UK.
Estate and gift tax Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention between the United Kingdom and the United States, a US holder generally is not subject to UK inheritance tax.
| 322 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Shareholder information C14170 Barclays B 315-326. qxp:B File 18 6 3 09 01:34 Page 323 Shareholder enquiries Investors who have any questions about their investment in Barclays, or about Barclays in general, may write to the Director, Investor Relations at our head office as follows: Director, Investor Relations Barclays PLC 1 Churchill Place London E14 5HP or, in the United States of America, The Corporate Communications Department Barclays Bank PLC 200 Park Avenue New York, NY 10166, USA Registered and Head office: 1 Churchill Place London E14 5HP Tel: 44 0 20 7116 1000 Registrar: The Registrar to Barclays Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Tel: 0871 384 2055 or 44 0 121 415 7004 from overseas Email: questions@share-registers.
co. uk ADR Depositary: JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. PO Box 64504 St. Paul MN 55164-0504 USA Tel: 1-800-990-1135 toll-free for US domestic callers or 1 651 453 2128 Email: jpmorgan.
com 4 Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute if using a BT landline.
Call charges may vary if using other telephone providers.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 323 C14170 Barclays B 315-326. qxp:B File 18 6 3 09 01:34 Page 324 Annual Report 2008 index Absa Corporate governance business analysis 57 corporate governance report 157 business description 56 attendance at board meetings 163 Accountability and Audit 187 Corporate sustainability 66 Accounting Credit risk 264 developments 202 Critical accounting estimates 41 policies 193 presentation 202 Currency of presentation 193 Acquisitions Currency risk 281 notes to the accounts 249 Derivatives and other financial instruments Allowance for impairment notes to the accounts 216 notes to the accounts 273 Directors and officers risk management 143 biographies 152 Annual General Meeting 156 emoluments 155 interests 155 Annual Report and Accounts approval 204 notes to the accounts 254 Assets Directors report 154 by class of business 295 other 219 Dividends 210 Auditors Earnings per share 214 reports 191 Economic capital 128 Available for sale investments 219 Economic profit 6 Balance sheet Emerging Markets average 35 business analysis 55 consolidated 205 business description 54 consolidated Barclays Bank 301 Employees Barclaycard equality and diversity 155 business analysis 51 involvement 155 business description 50 Events after the balance sheet date 258 Barclays Bank PLC consolidated accounts 300 Executive management structure 4 financial data 313 Fair value of financial instruments 287 notes to the accounts 304 Financial assets designated at fair value 215 Barclays Capital business analysis 59 Financial data business description 58 Barclays Bank PLC 313 Barclays PLC 16 Barclays Commercial Bank business analysis 49 Financial and operating highlights 2 business description 48 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 225 Barclays Global Investors Financial review 15 business analysis 61 business description 60 Financial risks 264 BGI Equity Ownership Plan EOP 185 Global Retail and Commercial Banking Barclays Wealth business analysis 44 business analysis 63 Glossary 326 business description 62 Goodwill 222 Capital adequacy data total assets and risk weighted assets 28 Group Chairmans statement 10 capital management 31 Group Chief Executives review 12 capital ratios 31 capital resources 31 Head office functions and other operations business analysis 65 Capital management 292 business description 64 Cash flow statement Impairment charges consolidated 207 notes to the accounts 212 consolidated Barclays Bank 303 risk management 100 notes to the accounts 210 Income statement Competition and regulatory matters 246 consolidated 204 Concentrations of credit risk 267 consolidated Barclays Bank 300 Contingent liabilities and commitments 244 Insurance assets and liabilities 226 Contractual obligations 33 Insurance premiums and insurance claims and benefits 211 | 324 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Shareholder information C14170 Barclays B 315-326. qxp:B File 18 6 3 09 01:34 Page 325 Remuneration report Intangible assets 223 2008 annual remuneration 171 Interest rate risk 280 Group Chairman and executive Directors: beneficial shareholdings 178 Investment Banking and Investment Management Reserves 242 business analysis 45 Results by business 44 Investment in associates and joint ventures 221 Risk factors 70 Key performance indicators 6 Risk management Leasing 247 Barclays approach to risk management 75 credit risk management 80 Legal proceedings 245 market risk management 119 Liabilities liquidity risk management 124 other 225 capital risk management 127 operational risk management 130 Liquidity risk 282 financial crime risk management 133 Loans and advances to banks statistical information 135 interest rate sensitivity 136 supervision and regulation 148 maturity analysis 136 Risk Tendency 135 notes to the accounts 218 Risk weighted assets 28 Loans and advances to customers interest rate sensitivity 136 Securities borrowing, securities lending, repurchase maturity analysis 139 and reverse repurchase agreements 219 notes to the accounts 218 Securitisation 233 Market risk 278 Segmental reporting Memorandum and Articles of Association 318 by class of business 295 Minority interests 244 by geographical segments 298 Share-based payments 258 Net fee and commission income notes to the accounts 210 Shareholder information 316 summary 19 Short-term borrowings 32 Net interest income notes to the accounts 210 Statement of recognised income and expense consolidated 206 summary 18 consolidated Barclays Bank 302 Off-balance sheet arrangements 39 Subordinated liabilities 228 Operating expenses Taxation administration and general expenses 212 staff costs 212 notes to the accounts 213 shareholder information 320 summary 22 Total assets 28 Ordinary shares, share premiums, and other equity called up 240 Trading portfolio 215 Other entities 253 Trust activities 201 Other income UK Retail Banking notes to the accounts 211 business analysis 47 summary 20 business description 46 Our people 68 Western Europe business analysis 53 Parent company accounts Barclays PLC 208 business description 52 Pensions directors 178 notes to the accounts 234 Principal subsidiaries 252 Principal transactions notes to the accounts 211 summary 20 4 Potential credit risk loans 97 Presentation of information 190 Property, plant and equipment 224 Provisions 232 Recent developments 203 Related party transactions 254 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 325 C14170 Barclays B 315-326. qxp:B File 18 6 3 09 01:34 Page 326 Glossary of terms Term used in Annual Report US equivalent or brief description Accounts Financial statements Allotted Issued Attributable profit Net income Called up share capital Ordinary shares, issued and fully paid Capital allowances Tax term equivalent to US tax depreciation allowances Cash at bank and in hand Cash Class of business Industry segment Finance lease Capital lease Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity Loans and advances Lendings Loan capital Long-term debt Net asset value Book value Profit Income Share capital Ordinary shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus not distributable Shares in issue Shares outstanding Write-offs Charge-offs Income refers to total income net of insurance claims, unless otherwise Economic profit is defined as profit after tax and minority interests less specified.
capital charge average shareholders equity excluding minority interests multiplied by the Group cost of capital.
Profit before business disposals represents profit before tax and disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
Daily Value at Risk DVaR is an estimate of the potential loss which might arise from unfavourable market movements, if the current positions were Cost:income ratio is defined as operating expenses compared to total to be held unchanged for one business day, measured to a confidence income net of insurance claims.
Cost:net income ratio is defined as operating expenses compared to total Absa Group Limited refers to the consolidated results of the South African income net of insurance claims less impairment charges.
group of which the parent company is listed on the Johannesburg Stock Compensation:net income ratio is defined as staff compensation based Exchange JSE Limited in which Barclays owns a controlling stake.
costs compared to total income net of insurance claims less impairment Absa refers to the results for Absa Group Limited as consolidated into charges.
the results of Barclays PLC: translated into Sterling with adjustments for Return on average economic capital is defined as attributable profit amortisation of intangible assets, certain head office adjustments, transfer compared to average economic capital.
Average net income generated per member of staff is defined as total Global Retail and Commercial Banking Absa is the portion of Absas operating income compared to the average of staff numbers for the results that is reported by Barclays within the Global Retail and reporting period.
Risk Tendency is a statistical estimate of the average loss for each Absa Capital is the portion of Absas results that is reported by Barclays loan portfolio for a 12-month period, taking into account the size of the within the Barclays Capital business.
portfolio and its risk characteristics under current economic conditions, and is used to track the change in risk as the portfolio of loans changes over time.
| 326 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 BARCLAYS COVERS:Layout 1 6 3 09 02:20 Page 2 Contents Forward-looking statements Business review 3 This document contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the US Securities Exchange Barclays today 4 Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to certain of the Groups Key performance indicators 6 plans and its current goals and expectations relating to its future financial condition and performance.
Barclays cautions readers Group Chairmans statement 10 that no forward-looking statement is a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from Group Chief Executives review 12 those contained in the forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that Financial review 15 they do not relate only to historical or current facts.
ForwardCorporate sustainability 66 looking statements sometimes use words such as may, will, seek, continue, aim, anticipate, target, expect, estimate, Our people 68 intend, plan, goal, believe or other words of similar meaning.
Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, Risk management 69 statements regarding the Groups future financial position, income growth, assets, impairment charges, business strategy, capital ratios, leverage, payment of dividends, projected levels of growth in the banking and financial markets, projected costs, estimates of capital expenditures, and plans and objectives for Governance 151 future operations and other statements that are not historical fact.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk Board and Executive Committee 152 and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances, including, but not limited to, UK domestic Directors report 154 and global economic and business conditions, the effects of continued volatility in credit markets, market related risks Corporate governance report 157 such as changes in interest rates and exchange rates, effects of changes in valuation of credit market exposures, changes Remuneration report 171 in valuation of issued notes, the policies and actions of governmental and regulatory authorities, changes in legislation, Accountability and audit 187 the further development of standards and interpretations under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS applicable to past, current and future periods, evolving practices with regard to the interpretation and application of standards under IFRS, progress in the integration of the Lehman Brothers North Financial statements 189 American businesses into the Groups business and the quantification of the benefits resulting from such acquisition, Presentation of information 190 the outcome of pending and future litigation, the success of future acquisitions and other strategic transactions and the Independent Auditors report  impact of competition a number of which factors are beyond Public Accounting Firms report 191 the Groups control.
As a result, the Groups actual future results may differ materially from the plans, goals, and expectations set Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC 193 forth in the Groups forward-looking statements.
Any forward-looking statements made herein speak Barclays Bank PLC data 299 only as of the date they are made.
Except as required by the UK Financial Services Authority FSA, the London Stock Exchange or applicable law, Barclays expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained in this announcement to Shareholder information 315 reflect any change in Barclays expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
The reader should, however, consult any additional disclosures that Barclays has made or may make in documents it has filed or may file with the Securities Exchange Commission SEC.
Delivering our strategy Our strategy is to achieve good growth through time by diversifying our business base and increasing our presence in markets and segments that are growing rapidly.
Consistent strategic priorities: Build the best bank in the UK Accelerate growth of global businesses Develop Retail and Commercial Banking activities in selected countries outside the UK Enhance operational excellence Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 BARCLAYS COVERS:Layout 1 6 3 09 02:20 Page 1 barclays.
com annualreport08 Annual Report 2008 Report Cover: Produced using 50% recycled fibre and pulp bleached using Elemental Chlorine Free ECF process.
Report Text: Produced from 100% post consumer waste.
Both mills are certified to the ISO 14001 environmental management standard.
We thank our customers and clients for the business they directed to Barclays in 2008.
High levels of activity on their behalf have enabled us to report substantial profit generation in difficult conditions.
Our priorities in 2008 were and remain : to stay close to customers and clients: to manage our risks: and to progress strategy.
John Varley Group Chief Executive Barclays Bank PLC 2009 www.
"com annualreport08 Registered office: 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP 51 30' 36""N Registered in England."
Registered No: 48839 London, UK 12pm GMT 9910115 barclays.
com annualreport08 Annual Review 2008 John Varley Group Chief Executive Highlights of the year 3 Our 4 strategic Performance Corporate governance Barclays today 4 priorities Group Chairmans statement 6 We have managed Barclays carefully The Board is responsible for Group Chief Executives review 7 through this period.
managing the Company on behalf 1.
Build the best bank in the UK Business review 9 of its shareholders and must 2.
Accelerate growth of global While performances across the Summary Financial Statement 14 ensure that an appropriate balance businesses Group varied, every one of our Corporate sustainability 16 between promoting long-term 3.
Develop retail and commercial businesses was profitable in 2008.
Summary corporate governance report 18 growth and delivering short-term banking activities in selected This is a good achievement, given Board of Directors and objectives is achieved.
countries outside the UK Executive Committee 20 the environment.
Enhance operational excellence Risk management 22 Summary remuneration report 24 see page 2 see page 9 see page 18 Shareholder support 26 2 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2008 | www.
com annualreport08 In a very difficult economic environment in 2008, Barclays has steered a course that has enabled us to be solidly profitable despite strong headwinds.
We are well positioned to maintain Barclays competitive strengths through the undoubted challenges that will come in 2009 and beyond.
Marcus Agius Group Chairman Our strategy Our strategy is to achieve good growth through time by diversifying our business base and increasing our presence in markets and segments that are growing rapidly.
Strategic priorities Build the best bank in the UK Accelerate growth of global Develop retail and commercial Enhance operational excellence 36% share of net new mortgages businesses banking activities in selected Conservative risk management in UK Strong income growth in interest countries outside the UK and well controlled costs rate products, currency products, Rapid organic growth: 809 new Acquisition of Goldfish UK credit Strong capital position emerging markets, prime services distribution points outside the UK card business maintaining strategic and and commodities Acquisition of Expobank in Russia operational independence Acquisition of Lehman Brothers and Bank Akita in Indonesia North American businesses Barclays PLC Annual Review 2008 3 Highlights of the year Group profit before tax was 6,077m, down 14% on 2007.
Profit included: Gains on acquisitions of 2,406m, including 2,262m relating to Lehman Brothers North American businesses Profit on disposal of the closed life assurance book of 326m Gains on Visa IPO and sales of shares in MasterCard of 291m Gross credit market losses and impairment of 8,053m Gains on own credit of 1,663m Global Retail and Commercial Banking profit before tax increased 6% to 4,367m UK lending increased to both retail and corporate customers Strengthened international presence in Barclaycard, Western Europe and Emerging Markets Investment Banking and Investment Management profit before tax was 2,568m, down 24% reflecting significant gains on acquisition and disposal and the impact of credit market dislocation Barclays Capitals strategy of diversification by geography and business accelerated through the acquisition of Lehman Brothers North American businesses There were strong net new asset flows into Barclays Wealth and Barclays Global Investors despite declines in equity markets Group balance sheet growth was driven by over 900bn derivative gross-up, growth in loans and advances of 124bn and impact of foreign exchange rates on non-Sterling assets Risk weighted assets increased 22% 79bn to 433bn reflecting: the significant depreciation in Sterling relative to both the US Dollar and the Euro procyclicality: macroeconomic indicators generally, and corporate credit conditions specifically, deteriorated towards the end of 2008 leading to ratings declines Capital ratios were strengthened through the raising of 13.6bn of Tier 1 capital.
The year-end pro forma Tier 1 capital ratio was 9.7% and the pro forma Equity Tier 1 ratio was 6.7% Barclays targets reduced adjusted gross leverage, capital ratios significantly ahead of regulatory requirements and recommencing dividend payments during the second half of 2009 Income statement highlights For the year ended 31st December Income 2008 2007 2006 m m m Total income net of insurance claims 23,115 23,000 21,595 23,115m Impairment charges and other credit provisions 5,419 2,795 2,154 Operating expenses 14,366 13,199 12,674 Profit before tax 6,077 7,076 7,136 Profit before tax Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 4,382 4,417 4,571 Basic earnings per share 59.3p 68.9p 71.9p Dividend per ordinary share 11.5p 34.0p 31.0p 6,077m Return on average shareholders equity 16.5% 20.3% 24.7% Cost:income ratio 62% 57% 59% Number of staff 156,300 134,900 122,600 Contribution to Group profit m Global Retail and Investment Banking and Commercial Banking Investment Management 4,367m 2,568m 6 5 63% 37% 3 1 4 1 1 UK Retail Banking 1,369m 3 2 Barclays Commercial Bank 1,266m 2 2 3 Barclaycard 789m 1 Barclays Capital 1,302m 4 GRCB Western Europe 257m 5 GRCB Emerging Markets 134m 2 Barclays Global Investors 595m 3 Barclays Wealth 671m 6 GRCB Absa 552m 4 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2008 | www.
com annualreport08 Version F Barclays today Listed in London and New York, Barclays is a major global financial services provider engaged in retail and commercial banking, credit cards, investment banking, wealth management and investment management services with an extensive international presence in Europe, United States, Africa and Asia.
With a strong long-term credit rating and over 300 years of history and expertise in banking, Barclays operates in over 50 countries and employs 156,000 people.
Americas Barclays moves, lends, invests and protects money 15,700 employees for 48 million customers and clients worldwide.
Senior management Marcus Agius Group Chairman John Varley Group Chief Executive Frits Seegers Chris Lucas Robert E Diamond Jr Chief Executive, Group Finance Director President, Barclays PLC Global Retail and Chief Executive, Commercial Banking Investment Banking and Investment Management Global Retail and Commercial Banking UK Retail Banking Barclays Commercial Bank Barclaycard GRCB Western Europe GRCB Emerging Markets One of the largest retail banks Barclays Commercial Bank Barclaycard launched the GRCB Western Europe serves A rapidly growing part of the in the UK with over 1,700 serves over 81,000 business first credit card in the UK in two million retail, premier, card, business opening over 280 branches, 15 million personal clients through a network 1966.
It now has 23 million SME and corporate customers distribution points in 2008 and customers and 660,000 of relationship and industry customers in the UK, across in Spain, Portugal, France and providing full banking services small business customers.
Europe and the United States.
Italy through nearly1,200 to over four million customers distribution points.
across Africa, Russia, the Middle East and Asia.
Profit before tax Profit before tax Profit before tax Profit before tax Profit before tax 1,369m 1,266m 789m 257m 134m Number of customers Number of customers Number of customers Number of customers Number of customers 15.2m 81,200 23.3m 2.1m 4.2m Barclays PLC Annual Review 2008 5 Version F Diversified operations UK 60,700 employees Continental Europe 13,400 employees Asia Pacific 10,800 employees Africa and Middle East 55,700 employees Total number of employees 156,300 Investment Banking and Investment Management GRCB Absa Barclays Capital Barclays Global Investors Barclays Wealth One of South Africas largest Barclays investment banking division One of the worlds largest asset Barclays Wealth serves clients financial services groups with the global reach, advisory services managers with US$1.5trn assets worldwide, providing international and with over 1,100 distribution and distribution power to meet the under management and the global private banking, fiduciary services, points and over 10 million needs of clients worldwide, holding top product leader in exchange traded investment management and retail customers offering a three positions in US capital markets funds iShares.
It is the UKs leading wealth complete range of banking, and globally in commodities, foreign manager by client assets and has bancassurance and wealth exchange, fund-linked derivatives, offices across the Americas following management products.
interest rate trading and investment.
the acquisition of Lehman Brothers Private Investment Management.
Profit before tax Profit before tax Profit before tax Profit before tax 552m 1,302m 595m 671m Number of clients generating Number of customers more than 1m income Assets under management Client assets 10.5m 1,000 $1.5trn 145bn 6 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2008 | www.
com annualreport08 Version F Group Chairmans statement 2008 was an extraordinarily difficult year happened to the banking sector in general and to retiring as a Director at the AGM.
Sandra has for the financial services industry with the Barclays share price in particular.
We fully recognise served with distinction as both a Director and second half in particular seeing a period of that banks must review their internal governance member of the Board Audit Committee.
systems and remuneration structures to ensure Russell will also retire from the Board in October there can be no repeat of the turmoil that has after nine years excellent service, particularly as Barclays was impacted by the difficult environment impacted the industry, and the wider economy, Chairman of the Board Audit Committee.
we undertook two significant capital raisings over the last 18 months.
The Board is also We have also announced the appointment during the year and incurred gross losses from committed to ensuring that Barclays plays its full of Simon Fraser as a new non-executive Director.
credit market write-downs of approximately 8bn.
part in contributing to the restoration of the health Simon will bring valuable fund management and However, a profit before tax for the year of just over of the global economy and with that the reputation institutional shareholder experience to the Board.
6bn, whilst benefiting from a number of gains of the industry.
In particular, the capital position on acquisitions and disposals, remains a resilient and ongoing profitability of the Group is enabling Maintaining our commitment to sustainability performance in such a difficult environment and us to support our customers in the difficult We focus our commitment in this important area reflects a continuing focus by all our people on economic environment.
For example, our lending on our ability to support our customers well in good servicing the needs of our customers and clients.
to UK consumers and UK commercial clients times and bad: on our role as an equal opportunity We were able to absorb the level of credit market increased by 16% and 14% respectively in 2008. company employing all races, creed, colour and write-downs through the strong income We also recognise that some of our orientation: on our commitment to play our part performance of the Group.
shareholders were unhappy about some aspects in managing the impact of climate change: and on As a result of raising over 13bn in equity of the capital raising we announced last October.
our role as a responsible global citizen.
and Tier 1 capital in 2008, our capital base has This unhappiness is a matter of great regret to us.
There is a universal benefit to be obtained been substantially strengthened and we have over I would like to give my personal assurance that the from a return to confidence in the banking system 37bn of equity capital and reserves.
This scale Board considered the capital raising very carefully.
and from the restoration of the reputation of the of loss absorption capacity, combined with the The Board regrets, however, that the capital raising banking industry in general.
I give you my underlying profitability of the Group, gives us denied Barclays existing shareholders their full assurance that we at Barclays will do our utmost confidence that our capital resources are sufficient, rights of pre-emption and that our private to play our part in procuring this vital objective.
even in these difficult markets.
Our liquidity shareholders were not able to participate.
The share price performance during the Board changes year was acutely disappointing.
Share prices in the We announced in January 2009 that Sir Nigel Rudd sector as a whole were badly hit during the year had advised us that he did not intend seeking by a number of factors.
The Board is committed to re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Sir Nigel creating the conditions to allow the share price to has served as a Director for nearly 13 years and recover and to resume dividend payments in the Barclays has benefited enormously from his second half of 2009, following the decision not to commercial experience and wise counsel.
He will Marcus Agius pay a final dividend for 2008. be greatly missed.
I would also like to pay tribute to Group Chairman As a Board, we very much regret what has Professor Dame Sandra Dawson who will also be Barclays PLC The Board is committed to creating the conditions to allow the share price to recover and to resume dividend payments in the second half of 2009.
Were committed to supporting Delivering our strategy customers through the current economic climate, running over 800 savings seminars for customers in 2008.
We increased lending to social housing projects by over 2 billion.
"2bn 51 30' 16""N 50 48' 00""N London, UK 12pm GMT Portsmouth, UK 12pm GMT Barclays PLC Annual Review 2008 7 Version F Group Chief Executives review I reported in our interim results that the one of the consequences of the increased capital Managing our risks through the unfolding conditions in the market in the preceding requirements introduced by the UK Financial crisis has been a significant focus through the year."
12 months were as difficult as any that we had Services Authority in October.
In the Annual Report we have set out extensive experienced in many years.
In the six months These facts have influenced significantly our details on the nature and quality of our loans since, we have seen the bankruptcy of Lehman compensation decisions in respect of 2008.
This has and advances, as well as further detail on our Brothers, substantial action taken by the UK resulted in the incentive payments across Barclays credit market assets.
We have worked hard to and other governments, and a progressive being significantly lower in 2008 than in 2007: in the reduce these during the year.
9.4bn of our a deterioration in the consensus expectations for application of high differentiation in incentive pools, exposures were sold or redeemed and, in addition, global economic prospects.
The environment based both on business and individual performance: we have announced a total of 8.1bn in gross has been extraordinarily challenging for nearly and in our delivering a significant proportion of write-downs of these assets.
Managing these two years, and remains so.
compensation for the most senior individuals across exposures will continue to be a priority in 2009.
Executive Directors will We are confident of the valuations of these assets We have managed Barclays carefully through receive no bonuses for 2008.
For 2009 and beyond, at the year end: whilst we expect there will be this period.
We have remained solidly profitable.
we are reviewing our compensation policies and further charges as we work down these assets, Although the 2008 profit before tax of 6.1bn practices to ensure that they evolve appropriately.
we also expect that gross write-downs in 2009 includes several individually significant and one-off Our endeavour as we do this is to maximise the will be lower than the levels of 2008. items, our performance during the year has mainly alignment between these and the interests of our In progressing strategy in 2008, we have been driven by ongoing business.
Where we have owners, as well as to ensure that our compensation announced a number of acquisitions Lehman had the opportunity to generate non-recurring policies and practices are appropriately benchmarked Brothers North American businesses, Goldfish in the profits, we have done so, including a gain on the to changing best practice in the industry.
UK, Expobank in Russia, Akita Bank in Indonesia acquisition of Lehman Brothers North American Our priorities in 2008 were and remain : to and we also launched or expanded banking platforms businesses, a gain on the acquisition of the Goldfish stay close to customers and clients: to manage our in Pakistan and India.
These steps will, we believe, credit card business in the UK, gains on selling the UK risks: and to progress strategy.
have a significant collective impact in the future.
We Closed Life Fund and from the Visa IPO and sale of have also, of course, raised large amounts of new MasterCard shares.
These items, combined with 2008 priorities equity and other capital, increasing our shareholders record income generation across the Group, have Our approach of staying close to customers and equity by almost 50% during the year.
enabled us to absorb substantial write-downs on our clients is shown in the number of customers we As we look forward to 2009 it is clear that the credit market assets and still post substantial profits.
serve in Global Retail and Commercial Banking, economic and business environment will remain But our shareholders have suffered a lot.
which has increased from 39 million to 48 million: very difficult, and the quality of our assets and risk Although we cannot control the price at which our in the increase in our lending volumes, particularly management capability will again be tested.
The shares trade in the market, we greatly regret the in UK mortgages, where our net lending mortgage scale of our market presence in the geographies fact that the total return on our shares during 2008 market share was 36%, and in the Group as a where we do business means that we will not avoid has been heavily negative, and we acknowledge whole where our loans and advances increased the consequences of severe downturn.
Although with regret, also, our decision not to recommend 32% to 510bn: and in sharply increased activity we have been careful over recent years to avoid the payment of a final dividend for 2008, which is levels in Barclays Capital interest rates, currency inappropriate risk concentration in our major loan products and commodities.
Note a Includes redemption of 3.1bn leveraged finance exposure in January 2009.
We have committed to lend an additional 1.5 billion in 2009 to our SME customers.
"1.5bn 53 28' 56""N Manchester, UK 12pm GMT 8 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2008 | www."
com annualreport08 Version F Group Chief Executives review continued books in retail and commercial banking, our plans 5.
We must deliver solid profitability significantly increased last year by the UK Financial for 2009 assume that impairment will continue to notwithstanding the global downturn.
The observed cost of equity has be at a high level.
diversified income streams have served us well also increased.
It is right, therefore, that we revisit in recent years and have enabled us to absorb our goals, to ensure that they are properly aligned 2009 strategic framework substantial costs from the financial crisis.
We with our new return and balance sheet objectives, Our framework for moving the strategy forward in expect them to continue to do so.
and with the interests of our owners.
We intend to 2009 has the following features: 6.
We will seek to manage the composition of our publish revised goals in due course that reflect the 1.
Governments profits, and capital allocation, to ensure that changes to the environment in the past two years.
in the UK and elsewhere have taken significant we optimise returns from our universal banking steps to address the impacts of the financial business model.
It is clear 2009 trading crisis and recession, and we must work with the to us that in the future there will be more capital Customer and client activity levels were high in the authorities and, of course, with our customers, in the banking system, and less leverage, first month of 2009, and we have had a good start to deal with the crisis in a way which is consistent particularly in capital markets businesses.
In particular the operating performance of with our obligations to shareholders.
will be true at Barclays too, and will govern our Barclays Capital, benefiting from the now complete 2.
We have committed to recommencing dividend approach to capital allocation and expected integration of the Lehman Brothers North American payments during the second half of 2009. returns.
We expect to see balance sheet utilisation businesses, was extremely strong.
The trends that Thereafter, and as previously announced, by Barclays Capital fall over time, which will help lie behind the strong operating performance in Global dividend payments will be made on a quarterly us to deliver strengthening returns.
We believe Retail and Commercial Banking in 2008 were again basis.
We will set out our dividend policy at the that the businesses that we have built from the observable in its performance in January.
Annual General Meeting in April.
integration of Lehman Brothers North American 3.
We must ensure that our capital position is robust businesses and Barclays Capital will help in this Conclusion and our balance sheet well-managed.
For 2009, regard, since the capital intensity of the advisory I end this review by recording the Boards appreciation returns will rank ahead of growth.
businesses in M&A and of the flow businesses of the dedication and hard work of our 150,000 4.
To create good returns at this time, we must in fixed income, currencies, equities and credit people.
We are doing more business with more preserve strategic and operational choice.
will be lower, once we have managed down our customers and clients than at any time in our history, As conditions remain very difficult in 2009, we credit market exposures.
and have generated substantial profits.
That we expect that there will be considerable value have been able to do this reflects the continuing at stake for our shareholders in decisions that Goals focus of Barclays employees on delivering highwe take relating to resource utilisation, capital We set out last year our goals for economic profit quality service to clients and customers despite allocation and risk management.
Those were based on, the difficult conditions of the year.
over time is to ensure that the cost of the capital amongst other things, the then regulatory capital we raised last November is covered many times requirements for the business and the then cost over by the benefits of pursuing our strategy.
The regulatory capital requirements were John Varley Group Chief Executive Our performance reflects the continuing focus of Barclays employees on delivering high-quality service to clients and customers despite the difficult conditions of the year.
GRCB expansion continues outside the UK with over 800 new distribution points, In 2008, we achieved nearly a 34% increase year on year.
double the number of Best Buy appearances for our products than in 2007, demonstrating the strength of our offerings.
"34% 25 03' 25""N 55 51' 39""N Dubai 4pm GST Glasgow, UK 12pm GMT Barclays PLC Annual Review 2008 9 Version F Business review Group performance Barclays delivered profit before tax of 6,077m from US sub-prime mortgages and other credit equity Tier 1 ratio was 6.7% and our Tier 1 ratio in 2008, a decline of 14% on 2007."
Other wholesale impairment was 9.7%, both stated on a pro forma basis to reflect included the following significant items: charges increased significantly as corporate credit conversion into ordinary shares of the Mandatorily conditions turned sharply worse.
In Barclays Capital Convertible Notes and inclusion of all innovative Tier gains on acquisition of 2,406m, including increased charges also arose in prime services, 1 capital.
Our capital ratios reflect a 22% increase 2,262m gain on acquisition of Lehman Brothers corporate lending and private equity.
In Barclays in risk weighted assets to 433bn during the year.
North American businesses Commercial Bank, increased impairment charges This was driven by the combined impacts on risk profit on disposal of Barclays Closed UK Life reflected the UK economy moving into recession.
weighted assets of the weakening of Sterling and assurance business of 326m In the UK there was a moderate increase in the pro-cyclical effects of the International Basel impairment in UK Retail Banking as a result of book Accord as well as lending growth in 2008.
The pro gains on Visa IPO and sales of shares in MasterCard growth and a deteriorating economic environment.
forma ratios significantly exceed the minimum levels of 291m, distributed widely across the Group UK mortgage impairment charges remained low.
established by the UK Financial Services Authority.
gross credit market losses and impairment of There was a lower charge in UK cards as net flows We expect a single digit percentage rate of 8,053m, or 4,957m net of related income and into delinquency and arrears levels reduced.
risk weighted asset growth in 2009.
We expect to hedges of 1,433m and gains on own credit of Significant impairment growth in our Global Retail maintain our equity Tier 1 ratio and Tier 1 ratio at 1,663m and Commercial Banking businesses outside the levels which significantly exceed the minimum UK reflected very strong book growth in recent requirements of the UK FSA for the duration of the Profit after tax increased 4% to 5,287m.
This years, and maturation of those portfolios, together current period of financial and economic stress.
reflected an effective tax rate of 13% 2007: 28% with deteriorating credit conditions and rising primarily due to the gain on the acquisition of delinquency rates in the US, South Africa and Spain.
Outlook Lehman Brothers North American businesses of Operating expenses increased 9% to We expect 2009 to be another challenging year 2,262m, in part being offset by carried forward 14,366m.
We continued to invest in our with continuing downturns or recessions in many US tax losses attributable to Barclays businesses.
distribution network in the Global Retail and of the economies in which we are represented.
In Earnings per share were 59.3p 2007: 68.9p, a Commercial Banking businesses.
Expenses fell in 2008 our profits were reduced by the impact of decline of 14% from 2007, reflecting the impact Barclays Capital due to lower performance related substantial gross credit market losses.
In 2009, of share issuance during 2008 on the weighted costs.
Underlying cost growth was well controlled.
we expect the impact of such credit market losses average number of shares in issue.
The Group cost:income ratio deteriorated by five to be lower.
Whilst we are confident in the relative Income grew 1% to 23,115m.
Income in percentage points to 62%.
quality of our major books of assets, we also expect Global Retail and Commercial Banking increased the recessionary environments in the UK, Spain, 17% and was particularly strong in businesses Shareholders equity South Africa and the US to increase the loan loss outside of the UK to which we have directed We increased shareholders equity, excluding minority rates on our loans and advances.
Income in Investment Banking interests, nearly 57% from 23bn at the end of 2007 assumption for 2009 reflects an increase in and Investment Management was down 19%.
The main drivers for impairment charges as a percentage of loans Barclays Capital was affected by very challenging this were: equity issuances in July and September and advances to a range of 130-150bps.
market conditions in 2008, with income falling by of 5.0bn: equity impact of issuing Mandatorily Governments in the UK and elsewhere have 1,888m 27% on 2007.
Excluding credit market Convertible Notes and Warrants of 4.4bn: and taken significant measures to assist borrowers and related losses, gains on own credit and related after tax profits of 5.3bn.
Other reserves increased lenders in response to the emerging recession.
We income and hedges, income in Barclays Capital 1.6bn and we paid dividends of 2.3bn.
expect the combined impact of these measures increased 6%.
and the lower interest rate environment to be Impairment charges and other credit Capital management positive for the economy in time.
provisions of 5,419m increased 94% on the prior At 31st December 2008, on a Basel II basis our year.
Impairment charges included 1,763m arising Our share of new mortgage  Barclays India launches Barclaycard announced a was36%comparedto8% an innovative mobile series of initiatives to give in2007, withaconservative banking service 3 million UK cardholders % additional support including rate reduction.
com annualreport08 Version F Business review Global Retail and Commercial Banking Barclays Global Retail and Commercial Banking was property comprises only 5% of Barclays Key facts formed in 2006 with a clear goal: to become a strong Commercial Banks portfolio.
growth engine for Barclays by diversifying into Barclaycard continues to benefit from its high growth markets, while continuing the steady investment in markets outside of the UK and, today, Barclays is committed to helping its growth in the UK businesses.
Barclays believes this has almost as many customers outside the UK as customers and clients achieve their goals.
global scale will allow it to better serve retail and in it.
Barclaycard has significantly expanded its cards More than 48 million customers and clients commercial customers in markets across the world.
franchises, with the purchase of Goldfish in the UK and worldwide have entrusted Barclays to help In 2008, we have continued to make partnerships with, for example, US Air and LL Bean them manage their finances.
significant progress towards achievement of in the US, and Woolworths Finance in South Africa.
Barclays has attracted nine million new In GRCB Western Europe, Barclays has It has lent more than 285bn to customers customers, mainly through organic growth.
It has continued to grow the network, adding more than and clients around the world and holds more also continued to improve its offer to customers 340 distribution points during 2008.
In Italy, Barclays than 192bn in deposits.
with the launch of Premier, a tailored exclusive acquired a high-quality residential mortgage 4,900 distribution points globally with more service, with openings in Abu Dhabi, Lisbon, Milan portfolio, at a discount to net asset value, that than 64% of the network outside of the UK.
immediately contributed to its profits.
Barclays has continued the transformation The GRCB Emerging Markets business 816,000 mortgage customers in the UK, with of UK Retail Banking, increasing its share of net continued to grow: acquiring Expobank in Russia an average loan-to-value of 40%.
new mortgage lending to 36% and it is growing and Bank Akita in Indonesia, and obtaining a its share of many other UK products, such as banking licence and commencing operations in instant access savings.
Barclays has also continued Pakistan.
The network grew by more than 280 to invest in upgrading the branch network by distribution points, which helped attract more opening new flagship branches and renovating than 2.2 million new customers.
In South Africa, Absa has continued to grow outside UK points growth Barclays remains committed to its SME and now serves more than 10.5 million customers.
By the end of 2008, we have extended For the third year running, it has been voted the best 15bn in loans to the SME market and have banking brand in the Sunday Times Markinor survey.
60% 20% committed to lending a further 1.5bn in 2009.
2009 will be a challenging year as the global In Barclays Commercial Bank, the focus economic downturn puts pressure on Barclays on staying close to customers, combined with customers and therefore on its profits.
However, our considered approach to risk and deliberate Barclays has pledged to remain close to its customers diversification of the lending portfolio, means that and clients and to continue lending.
Barclays is Barclays is relatively well-positioned, with less committed to playing its part in bringing the UK exposure than some other banks to the riskiest economy, and all other economies where it operates, market segments.
For example, commercial out of recession.
Barclays wants to be the best retail and commercial bank for customers and clients every time, every product, and in every one of our markets Frits Seegers Chief Executive, Global Retail and Commercial Banking Number of customers m Weve entered new markets in Pakistan, Indonesia and Russia.
Personal Reserve current account, offered free of charge on top of existing overdraft limits, was launched in 2008, and is unique in the market.
"55 45' 21""N 52 24' 44""N Moscow 3pm MSK Coventry, UK 12pm GMT 06 34 07 39 08 48 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2008 11 Version F Build the best bank in the UK Barclaycard contactless technology In 2008 Barclaycard issued over one million contactless payment cards in the UK, with more than 7,000 shops now having the technology to use the cards installed."
The cards enable people to pay for items costing 10 or less by simply swiping them against a sensor and Barclaycard research shows 98% of people with a contactless payment card think it is easy to use and 88% think it speeds up payment times.
"Number of contactless cards 1m 51 30' 18""N London, UK 12pm GMT 12 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2008 | www."
com annualreport08 Version F Business review Investment Banking and Investment Management Accelerate growth of global businesses Lehman Brothers Acquisition The acquisition of Lehman Brothers North American businesses accelerated the execution of our strategy of diversification by geography and business in pursuit of profitable growth on behalf of our shareholders.
It has created a premier integrated global investment banking company with a leading presence in all major markets and across all major lines of business including: equity capital markets, debt capital markets, mergers and acquisitions, commodities trading and foreign exchange.
For Barclays Wealth, the acquisition gives us a strong platform from which to extend our wealth management offering in the Americas.
All-American Equity Business Research Team No.
"1 40 45' 39""N New York 7am EST Barclays PLC Annual Review 2008 13 Version F Profit before tax decreased 24% to 2,568m, with market dislocation."
Underlying income, excluding growth in customer deposits and lending, partially positive contributions from all three businesses credit market related losses, gains on own credit and offset by the impact of lower equity markets on despite a very challenging market environment.
related income and hedges, increased 6% on the fee income.
Operating expenses decreased 4% The results included 8,053m of gross credit prior year with record performances in interest rate reflecting strong cost control.
Total client assets market losses and gains on acquisition and disposal products, currency products, emerging markets, increased 10% 12.6bn to 145.1bn, with net new of 2,588m.
Income for Investment Banking prime services and commodities.
There was also very asset inflows and the acquisition of Lehman Brothers and Investment Management was down 19% strong underlying growth in the US driven by fixed North American businesses offsetting the impact to 8,399m.
income, prime services and the acquired businesses.
of negative market movements and the sale of the Despite the market conditions, each business Operating expenses decreased 5%, despite absorbing closed life business.
was able to accelerate its longer term strategy.
10,000 staff acquired from Lehman Brothers Through the acquisition of Lehman Brothers North North American businesses, due to a reduction American businesses, Barclays Capital gained a top in performance related pay of more than 50%.
Key facts tier presence in the North American investment In the first month of 2009, the operating banking market, including new product capabilities performance of Barclays Capital was extremely Barclays Capital in cash equities and advisory.
Barclays Global strong, reflecting high client activity levels and No.
1 in Global All Bonds Investors continued its product and geographic the benefit of the now complete integration of No.
1 in US government securities survey expansion, including strong asset flows in iShares the Lehman Brothers North American businesses.
3 in Euromoney Foreign Exchange poll and good performance in its Fixed Income active Best structured Products House Euromoney funds.
Barclays Wealth also gained a significant Barclays Global Investors 2008 Awards for Excellence Americas presence through the acquisition of Profit before tax decreased 19% to 595m.
Profit Barclays Global Investors Lehmans Private Investment Management was impacted by the cost of provision of selective Worlds largest asset manager, Index Manager business, as well as launching its India onshore support of liquidity products and an 8% and ETF Manager business during 2008. appreciation in the average value of the US Dollar 3,000 institutional clients across 50 countries against Sterling.
Income fell 4% to 1,844m due to Barclays Capital lower incentive fees.
Operating expenses increased Barclays Wealth In an exceptionally challenging market environment, 5% and included charges of 263m 2007: 80m Leading UK wealth manager for the third Barclays Capital generated profit before tax of related to selective support of liquidity products.
9 globally Private Asset 1,302m, down 44% from the record 2007 result.
Total assets under management were US$1,495bn, Management PAM Profit was impacted by the continuing dislocation reflecting net new assets of US$99bn, negative 25 onshore locations in the credit markets which resulted in gross credit market moves of US$553bn and adverse exchange No.
of Barclays Capital Countries in which losses of 8,053m, partially offset by gains of rate movements of US$130bn.
clients generating Barclays Wealth 1,663m on the widening of credit spreads on over 1m income clients served issued notes by Barclays Capital.
In addition there Barclays Wealth was a gain on the acquisition of Lehman Brothers Profit before tax grew 119% to 671m, including a North American businesses of 2,262m.
326m profit on disposal of the closed life business.
Income of 5,231m was down 27% due to the Income growth of 3% to 1,324m reflected strong 1,000 190 Our strong revenue performance reflects our unwavering commitment to our clients, helping them achieve their aims at their time of greatest need.
2009 will be another testing year in the markets, but we have a unique opportunity to serve our clients more comprehensively than ever before.
Robert E Diamond Jr Chief Executive, Investment Banking and Investment Management Barclays Wealth clients BGI iShares attracted a around the world are now record US$89bn in net new served by over 1,600 client Lehman Brothers North assets in 2008. facing professionals.
American businesses integration completed in January 2009, within the 100 day target.
"$89bn 1,600 37 47' 17""N 1 11' 55""N 40 45' 39""N San Francisco 4am PST Singapore 8pm SGT New York 7am EST 14 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2008 | www."
com annualreport08 Summary Financial Statement Summary consolidated income statement Notes For the year ended 31st December 2008 2007 a Basic earnings per share m m The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the profit attributable to Barclays shareholders over the Net interest income 11,469 9,610 weighted average number of shares which includes shares that will be issued following conversion in full Net fee and commission income 8,407 7,708 of the Mandatorily Convertible Notes and represents Other income 3,476 6,174 the level of earnings generated per ordinary share.
Total income 23,352 23,492 b Diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share is adjusted for the conversion Net claims and benets incurred on insurance contracts 237 492 of outstanding options into shares within Absa Group Total income net of insurance claims 23,115 23,000 Limited and Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited.
Impairment charges 5,419 2,795 Net income 17,696 20,205 Operating expenses 14,366 13,199 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 14 42 profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 327 28 Gains on acquisitions 2,406 profit before tax 6,077 7,076 Tax 790 1,981 profit after tax 5,287 5,095 profit attributable to minority interests 905 678 profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 4,382 4,417 5,287 5,095 Dividends Interim dividend 11.5p 2007: 11.5p 906m 768m Proposed final dividend 00.0p 2007: 22.5p 1,485m Earnings per share a Basic earnings per share 59.3p 68.9p b Diluted earnings per share 57.5p 66.7p Respective responsibilities of Directors We also read the other information contained Independent auditors and auditors in the Annual Review and consider the implications The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual for our report if we become aware of any apparent statement to the members Review in accordance with United Kingdom law.
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Our responsibility is to report to you our Summary Financial Statement.
of Barclays PLC opinion on the consistency of the Summary Financial This statement, including the opinion, Statement within the Annual Review with the full has been prepared for and only for the Companys We have examined the Summary Financial annual financial statements and the Remuneration members as a body in accordance with section Statement, which comprises the Summary report, and its compliance with the relevant 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other consolidated income statement, the Summary requirements of section 251 of the Companies purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept consolidated balance sheet, and the Summary Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
or assume responsibility for any other purpose or remuneration report set out on pages 14, 15, 24 and 25.
Barclays PLC Annual Review 2008 15 Summary Financial Statement Summary consolidated balance sheet Notes For the year ended 31st December 2008 2007 a Shareholders equity m m Represents the residual interest of shareholders in the Group and largely consists of Ordinary Share Assets Capital and accumulated retained earnings.
Cash and other short-term funds 31,714 7,637 b Minority interests Trading and financial assets designated at fair value 306,836 341,171 The interests of others in certain subsidiaries of the Group, for example Absa Group Limited.
Derivative financial instruments 984,802 248,088 Loans and advances to banks 47,707 40,120 Loans and advances to customers 461,815 345,398 Available for sale financial investments 64,976 43,072 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 130,354 183,075 Other assets 20,102 15,804 Property, plant and equipment 4,674 2,996 Total assets 2,052,980 1,227,361 Liabilities Deposits and items in the course of collection due to banks 116,545 92,338 Customer accounts 335,505 294,987 Trading and financial liabilities designated at fair value 136,366 139,891 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 69,183 92,639 Derivative financial instruments 968,072 248,288 Debt securities in issue 149,567 120,228 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 182,285 169,429 Other liabilities 16,052 15,032 Insurance contract liabilities, including unit-linked liabilities 2,152 3,903 Subordinated liabilities 29,842 18,150 Total liabilities 2,005,569 1,194,885 a Shareholders equity Shareholders equity excluding minority interests 36,618 23,291 b Minority interests 10,793 9,185 Total shareholders equity 47,411 32,476 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 2,052,980 1,227,361 The Summary consolidated income statement and the Summary consolidated balance sheet were approved by the Board of Directors on 5th March 2009 and signed on its behalf by the Group Chairman.
to any other person to whom this statement is Legislation in the United Kingdom governing Opinion shown or into whose hands it may come save where the preparation and dissemination of financial In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
statements may differ from legislation in other consistent with the full annual financial statements The maintenance and integrity of the Barclays jurisdictions.
and the Remuneration report of Barclays PLC for website is the responsibility of the Directors: the the year ended 31st December 2008 and complies work carried out by the auditors does not involve Basis of opinion with the applicable requirements of section 251 of consideration of these matters and, accordingly, We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin the Companies Act 1985, and the regulations the auditors accept no responsibility for any 1999 6, The auditors statement on the Summary made thereunder.
changes that may have occurred to the full annual Financial Statement issued by the Auditing financial statements or the Summary Financial Practices Board.
Our report on the companys full Statement since they were initially presented on annual financial statements describes the basis  LLP the website.
of our audit opinion on those financial statements Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors and the Remuneration report.
5th March 2009 16 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2008 | www.
com annualreport08 Corporate sustainability Sustainability and Barclays In 2008, we developed a framework for regular carry out banking transactions easily and securely At Barclays, we recognise that our sustainability progress reports to the Group Executive Committee over their mobile phones.
Hello Money is already values have increased importance in the current and the Board.
It provides consistent tracking of our making a significant impact in giving access to financial climate.
We are focused on: supporting progress by sustainability theme and Business Unit.
financial services for people in Indias rural areas.
our existing customers: being a bank that welcomes Barclays participates in a number of external all potential customers: being an equal opportunity indices, forums and initiatives including the Dow Diversity and our people employer: our commitment to addressing climate Jones Sustainability Index and FTSE4Good.
In 2008, Barclays aims to provide a safe working environment change and ensuring we behave at all times as a Barclays ranked joint first in the Carbon Disclosure in which employees are treated fairly and with responsible global citizen.
respect, encouraged to develop and rewarded Doing this effectively helps us to reduce our on the basis of individual performance.
Customers and clients risk and positions us well to capture commercial In 2008, Antony Jenkins, CEO Barclaycard In 2008, amid widespread uncertainty in financial opportunities arising from the global transition was appointed Diversity and Inclusion Executive markets and the wider global economy, staying towards a more sustainable future.
Champion to drive the Global Retail and close to our clients and customers, who we Commercial Banking diversity agenda.
Initiatives Developing our strategic framework recognise have a choice where they bank, was vital.
in 2008 included establishing the requirement that To measure our success in integrating sustainability Our record of lending responsibly has every senior executive has a diversity objective into our business we have addressed the broad allowed us to continue mortgage lending in the UK, linked to their performance goals.
sustainability agenda through five key themes: increasing our share of net new lending from 8% in Environment 2007 to 36% in 2008.
Customers and clients We increased lending to UK SMEs by 6% to We seek to minimise our environmental impact through reducing Barclays energy, water and Inclusive banking a total of 15bn.
We also provided support to small businesses in the UK and South Africa including waste footprints and managing the risks and Diversity and our people significant investment in the Barclays Business opportunities associated with climate change.
Environment Support team which is dedicated to helping business In 2008, Barclays set environmental targets customers in financial difficulty in the UK.
that apply to our global operations.
We will Responsible global citizenship In addition, we have committed to lend an measure our performance over three years from additional 10% 1.5bn to SMEs in the UK by the 2009 to 2011 against a 2008 baseline.
The targets These themes resonate in our businesses, provide a platform for action, and give us a clear purpose end of 2009.
We continue to act on customer and are to reduce by 6% per employee achieving an client feedback to develop appropriate products average of 2% reduction per year : CO and direction.
emissions: 2 This section examines each theme, and the and services to meet different needs.
energy use from buildings excluding data centres : table opposite defines the themes and identifies and water use.
Inclusive banking progress against them during 2008.
We have made our UK and European For Barclays, inclusive banking means helping We manage and report our progress on the operations carbon neutral by offsetting emissions those who are excluded from the financial system sustainability topics of most significance to our from energy use and travel.
We are on track to make to join and benefit from it.
We have determined our global banking operations carbon neutral by the We have dedicated accounts for people on this in part through: end of 2009. low incomes across several countries in Africa.
In our research initiatives and partnerships 2008, these basic accounts made up 27% of our Environmental and social risk total current and savings accounts in Africa.
The majority of the environmental and social risks dialogue with our stakeholders including We continued to support better access to associated with our business are indirect.
These customers, investors, governments, nonfinancial products and services in the UK through impacts arise through business relationships, governmental organisations NGOs, consumer our basic-level Cash Card Account, which is now including those with our supply chain and those groups, and journalists across our markets globally held by more than 730,000 customers, and with our clients through our financing activities.
internal and external focus groups including through partnerships with community finance We apply our Environmental and Social hosting consumer roundtables in the UK.
organisations and charities which help excluded Impact Assessment policy to projects that we are and vulnerable people in society.
In 2008, a total of 31 project Measuring progress In March 2008, Barclays launched the Hello finance deals were assessed against the Equator We aim to measure and monitor sustainability Money service in India which allows customers to Principles, a set of social and environmental progress both internally and externally.
"Key facts Barclays Capital traded Over 57,000 employees more then 1billion tonnes received direct support for of carbon credits with a fundraising, volunteering 52.2m invested in notional value of over and giving in 31 countries our communities globally 20 billion 57,000 52.2m 1bn 51 30' 21""N 1 16' 28""S 19 01' 04""N London, UK 12pm GMT Nairobi 3pm EAT Mumbai 5.30pm IST Barclays PLC Annual Review 2008 17 criteria adopted by many banks."
In addition, the community investment partnership with UNICEF, Leaders Initiative on Human Rights, launched in Environmental Risk Management team assessed the leading childrens organisation, in which we 2003, of which we are a founder member, and the 229 non-project finance transactions.
United Nations Environment Programme Finance We continue to assess our environmental Initiative UNEP FI, for which we co-chair the Human rights and Barclays and social impact beyond the project finance remit Human Rights Workstream.
In June 2008, we refined our statement on human of the Equator Principles and are working to include We extended the guidance provided to rights first introduced in 2004 which outlines climate change and human rights considerations our employees on human rights in 2008 to include the approach we take to human rights through in these assessments.
access to an online tool for front line lending our three main areas of impact as an employer, managers, which assists in identifying and Responsible global citizenship as a provider of financial services to customers and mitigating human rights risks.
We acknowledge and accept that we have an clients, and as a purchaser of goods and services obligation to be a responsible global citizen which from suppliers.
We aim to operate in accordance Supply chain includes managing our business and supply chain with the: We work closely with our suppliers to help them to improve our social, economic and environmental manage their own impacts and ensure they share Universal Declaration of Human Rights impact, and doing business ethically.
Our Group-wide OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises sourcing process includes criteria for measuring and Community investment assessing our suppliers sustainability.
During 2008, Investing in the communities in which we International Labour Organisations Core we continued to engage directly with our suppliers operate is an integral part of Barclays sustainability Conventions.
on sustainability, both as part of our ongoing strategy.
During 2008, we maintained our levels of Barclays is active in contributing to the global supplier relationships and to address specific investment in communities despite the challenging business and human rights agenda through our issues such as reducing their carbon emissions.
Barclays launched a three-year global membership of two organisations the Business Barclays sustainability themes Definition Theme Progress in 2008 Customers and clients Ensuring our products and services meet the Increased share of new mortgages in the UK from 8% to needs of customers and clients, and developing 36% of net new lending from 2007 to 2008 innovative solutions to enhance performance, Increased lending to UK SMEs by 6% to 15 bn relationships and satisfaction Inclusive banking Extending the reach of banking services in Absa, which has 10 million customers, is now the market leader developing markets and reducing financial for low-income customers in South Africa those earning less exclusion in developed markets than R3,000 200 a month with a market share of 33% In the UK, our basic-level Cash Card Account is held by more than 730,000 customers, of whom over 38,000 live in deprived areas In Africa, we have more than 590,000 customers who are on low incomes Diversity and our people Attracting employees from the widest possible 15% of senior executives globally are women talent pools and developing and retaining 12% of colleagues in the UK are of an ethnic minority colleagues on the basis of performance and ability 2% of colleagues in the UK have a disability Environment Minimising direct environmental impacts by 31 project finance deals were assessed against the mitigating Barclays energy, water and waste Equator Principles footprints and managing the risks and 229 non-project finance transactions were assessed by the opportunities associated with climate change Environment Risk Management team Barclays Capital has traded more than 1 billion tonnes of carbon credits with a notional value of over 20bn Responsible global citizenship Managing Barclays indirect economic, ethical, 52.2m invested in communities social and environmental impacts, encouraging Over 57,000 employees received direct support for our supply chain to be more sustainable, fund-raising, volunteering and giving in 31 countries and investing in the local communities where we do business 80% of our key suppliers completed our sustainability screening questionnaire 18 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2008 | www.
com annualreport08 Summary corporate governance report The year proved to be extremely challenging have voted against the enabling resolution at work together to make sure that information for the financial services industry as increasing the General Meeting on 24th November 2008. communicated to the Board is accurate, timely vulnerabilities exposed in the global financial The Directors wish to place on record and clear.
system created a period of exceptional instability.
both their appreciation of the support received from shareholders in difficult circumstances in Board structure and composition During October 2008, it became clear that an completing the Capital Raising and to re-affirm The roles of the Group Chairman and Group industry-wide solution to the risks of systemic their fundamental commitment to the principle Chief Executive are separate.
There is a strong failure in the UK financial services sector was of pre-emption.
independent element on the Board and at least needed.
The outcome of discussions between half the Board are independent non-executive the UK FSA and the UK banks was that we, along Corporate covernance framework Directors.
At the date of this report, the Board is with many of our competitors, were required to Role of the Board comprised of the Group Chairman, four executive raise additional equity and Tier 1 capital to take The Board is responsible for managing the Directors and 11 non-executive Directors.
our capital ratios well beyond the levels we had Company on behalf of its shareholders and must Although the Board of Directors has previously agreed with our regulators the ensure that an appropriate balance between collective responsibility for the success of the Capital Raising.
promoting long-term growth and delivering Group, executive Directors are directly responsible The Board was fortunate in that the relative short-term objectives is achieved.
The role and for business operations, whereas non-executive strength of the Group created choice relating to the responsibilities of the Barclays Board are set out Directors are responsible for bringing independent means and timetable of meeting the new capital in Corporate Governance in Barclays, available judgement and scrutiny to decisions taken by the requirements introduced by the FSA.
The non-executive Directors must satisfy environment required that the decisions relating The Board has eight scheduled Board themselves on the integrity of financial information to how additional equity and Tier 1 capital could be meetings each year.
Strategy is reviewed regularly and that financial controls and systems of risk raised had to be taken quickly.
The Board did not at these meetings and there is normally a day and management are robust.
take any of these decisions lightly: its governance a half offsite meeting to consider and approve the Given the events of 2008 and the continuing processes were rigorous.
It met frequently, debated Groups strategy for the next year.
Adverse market uncertainty in the global financial services industry, the issues at length, heard differing views and conditions during 2008 led to the Board holding the Board and, in particular, the Board Corporate arguments, sought external advice and consulted an additional 23 meetings, where it discussed the Governance and Nominations Committee, is representative shareholder bodies.
impact of market conditions on performance, considering both the appropriate size and skills The Board believes that the decisions made liquidity, the three capital raisings that were mix of the Board.
As a financial services business, have resulted in the Group being able to maintain undertaken during the year and the acquisition the Board aims to appoint non-executive Directors its strategic momentum.
The Directors deeply of Lehman Brothers North American investment who have the necessary skills and experience regret, however, that the Capital Raising denied banking and capital markets businesses.
There required for a proper understanding of the Groups Barclays then existing shareholders their full rights were also eight meetings of the Board Finance activities and associated risks.
Details of the of pre-emption with respect to the ordinary shares Committee during the year to which the Board experience and skills of each of the current Directors issued.
The Directors recognise that there is a delegated authority to approve certain aspects of are set out in their biographies on pages 20 and 21. high level of unhappiness on the part of some the capital raisings and the acquisition.
Ongoing We have also announced the appointment shareholders that the principle of pre-emption was and regular communication with the Board was of Simon Fraser as a new non-executive Director.
breached with consequent dilution of shareholdings vital during this period given the need for the Board Simon held a number of positions during his career and that, were it not to avoid the risk of destabilising to respond to rapidly changing circumstances.
at Fidelity International, including President of the Company or the system, more of them may The Group Chairman and the Company Secretary Fidelitys European and UK institutional business The Directors wish to place on record both their appreciation of the support received from shareholders in difficult circumstances in completing the Capital Raising and to re-affirm their fundamental commitment to the principle of pre-emption.
The Board is clear that the extraordinary circumstances which they were required to deal with were so unusual as to be effectively unique.
Board allocation of time Board Audit Committee allocation of time 2008 2007 2008 2007 1 71 6 6 2 1 Strategy Formulation and 1 Control Issues 9 9 Implementation Monitoring 16 39 2 Financial Results 36 33 2 5 2 Operational and Financial 3 Internal Audit Matters 11 9 Performance including 4 External Audit Matters 9 9 Risk Management 27 27 5 Business Control 3 Governance and Risk 6 9 Environment 28 25 5 4 Capital Management 33 6 Governance and Compliance 6 14 5 M&A including 7 Other 1 1 4 3 4 Lehman Acquisition 13 16 3 6 Other 5 9 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2008 19 and Global Chief Investment Officer.
He will bring by which consequent risk is managed.
As a Share capital and other information valuable fund management and institutional result, impairment measurement, fraud controls, The authorised share capital of the Company shareholder experience to the Board.
collections activities and day-to-day credit is 3,540m, US$77.5m, 40m and 4,000m.
All Directors will be seeking re-election at controls and security documentation are receiving 31st December 2007: 2,500m comprising the AGM on 23rd April 2009, with the exception of increased scrutiny from the Committee.
13,996 million 2007: 9,996 million ordinary shares Sir Nigel Rudd and Professor Dame Sandra Dawson, of 25p each, 0.4 million Sterling preference shares who will be retiring at the conclusion of the AGM.
Board Risk Committee of 100 each, 0.4 million US Dollar preference 2008 was also a challenging year for risk shares of $100 each, 150 million US Dollar Board Committees management and this was reflected in the work preference shares of $0.25 each, 0.4 million Euro Certain responsibilities of the Board are delegated of the Committee, which monitored the Groups preference shares of 100 each, 0.4 million Yen to Board Committees to assist the Board in carrying sub-prime exposures throughout the year.
The preference shares of 10,000 each and 1 million out its functions and to ensure independent reduction in limits and scale of the sub-prime 2007: 1 million staff shares of 1 each.
As at oversight of internal control and risk management.
business in 2007 reduced the impact of the 31st December 2008 the issued ordinary share All members of principal Board Committees are crisis, although substantial write-downs were capital totalled 8,371,830,617 shares which non-executive Directors.
still required during 2008, reflecting a further represented 100% of the total issued share capital.
deterioration in the markets and underlying Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs operate in Board Audit Committee performance of the assets.
The Committee also connection with certain of the Groups Employee The Committees areas of focus in 2008 were monitored the Groups exposure to other areas Share Plans Plans.
The Trustees of the EBTs dominated by the continuing disruption to the credit affected by the crisis, and carefully monitored may exercise all rights attached to the shares in markets and financial services sector as a whole.
In the Groups overall risk exposure in the light of the accordance with their fiduciary duties other than as early 2008, a separate session of the Committee was anticipated worsening in economic conditions.
specifically restricted in the relevant Plan governing held on accounting for and valuation of derivatives It also reviewed management plans to manage documents.
The Trustees of the EBTs have informed and complex financial instruments and the Groups and mitigate the effects of the expected downturn the Company that their normal policy is to abstain valuation methodology for these instruments.
The capital position was from voting in respect of the Barclays shares held When considering the Groups preliminary monitored throughout the year relative to regulatory in trust.
The Trustees of the Sharepurchase EBT and half-year results and interim management requirements and the Groups overall risk appetite.
may vote in respect of Barclays shares held in the statements, the Committee spent a significant Several steps were taken to strengthen the Sharepurchase EBT, but only at the discretion amount of time reviewing the disclosures around capital base prior to the events of October 2008. of the participants.
and the fair value of Barclays Capitals credit The Committee played an active role in informing On 27th November 2008, Barclays Bank PLC markets exposures.
Reassurance was sought from Board debate about risk appetite and capital issued 4,050m of 9.75% Mandatorily Convertible independent Group control functions such as Risk planning for 2009.
If not converted at the holders and Finance, and the external auditors, that the option beforehand, these instruments mandatorily individual marks were appropriate.
The Committee convert to ordinary shares of Barclays PLC on discussed the overall impact of market conditions 30th June 2009.
The conversion price is 1.53276 on the remit of the Committee and this will help and, after taking into account MCNs that were shape its agenda for 2009. converted on or before 31st December 2008, In the second half of the year, the Committee will result in the issue of 2,642 million new directed increasing attention at the deepening Marcus Agius ordinary shares.
economic downturn, reviewing the key controls Group Chairman On 31st October 2008 Barclays PLC issued, 5th March 2009 in conjunction with a simultaneous issue of Reserve Capital Instruments issued by Barclays Bank PLC, warrants to subscribe for up to 1,516.9 million new ordinary shares at a price of 1.97775.
These may be exercised at any time up to close of business on 31st October 2013.
As at 27th February 2009, Barclays had been notified of the following holdings of voting rights in its issued share capital: Qatar Holding LLC 6.4%: Axa S. A.
5.5%: and Legal & General Group plc 4.1%.
The rights attaching to shares, including any restrictions on transfer, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, which may only be amended by a Special Resolution at a general meeting.
On a show of hands at a general meeting every holder of ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote has one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share held.
Board Risk Committee allocation of time Deadlines for voting are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Companys Articles of 2008 2007 5 1 4 Association specify that Directors may be appointed 3 1 Risk Profile Risk Appetite by the existing Directors or by the shareholders in a including capital general meeting.
The Directors may, if authorised by management 55 40 the shareholders in a general meeting, allot Barclays 2 Key Risk Issues including shares and may buy back Barclays shares.
As at ABS and Leveraged Credit Markets 35 40 27th February 2009 the latest practicable date for 3 Internal Control Risk Policies 4 3 inclusion in this document, the Company had an 4 Regulatory Frameworks 5 12 unexpired authority to repurchase shares up to a 2 5 Other 1 5 maximum of 984,960,000 ordinary shares.
20 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2008 | www.
com annualreport08 Board of Directors and Executive Committee Director of Rand Europe UK until 2004.
Leigh Clifford, AO Fleming Claverhouse Investment Trust until 2003.
Group Chairman Age 62 Non-executive Director Age 61 Committee membership Member of the Board Audit Marcus has an extensive background in banking, having Leigh is Chairman of Qantas Airways Limited.
He previously Committee since August 2003. worked at Lazard from 1972 to 2006.
He also has experience worked for the Rio Tinto Group, where he was a Director of Rio of chairing large organisations, including BAA plc and Lazard in Tinto PLC from 1994 and Rio Tinto Limited from 1995 and was London.
Marcus is Senior Independent Director of the British Chief Executive of the Rio Tinto Group from 2000 until 2007.
Sir Andrew Likierman Broadcasting Corporation BBC.
Term of office Leigh joined the Board in October 2004.
Leigh Non-executive Director Age 65 Term of office Marcus joined the Board in September 2006 as was last re-elected by shareholders at the AGM in 2007.
Sir Andrew is Chairman of the National Audit Office, having held a non-executive Director and was appointed Group Chairman Independent Yes a number of public roles in the financial services sector, including on 1st January 2007.
Marcus was last re-elected by External appointments Chairman of Qantas Airways Limited Managing Director, Financial Management, Reporting and Audit shareholders at the AGM in 2007, following his appointment.
Member of the Bechtel Board of and Head of the Government Accountancy Service at HM Independent On appointment Counsellors since May 2007.
Senior Adviser to Kohlberg Kravis Treasury and non-executive Director of the Bank of England.
External appointments Senior Independent Director of the BBC Roberts & Co since January 2009.
Director of the Murdoch Sir Andrew is also Dean of the London Business School where since 2006.
Trustee to the Board of the Royal Botanic Gardens, Childrens Research Institute.
Board Member of the National he was previously Professor of Management Practice in Kew.
Chairman of The Foundation and Friends of the Royal Gallery of Victoria Foundation.
Chief Executive of Rio Tinto Accounting.
He has been at the London Business School from Botanic Gardens, Kew.
Chairman of Lazard in London and until 2007.
Director of Freeport-McMoran Copper & Gold Inc. 1974-1976, 1979-1993 and since 2004.
Deputy Chairman of Lazard LLC until 2006.
Term of office Sir Andrew joined the Board in September 2004. plc until 2006.
Committee membership Member of the Board HR and Sir Andrew was last re-elected by shareholders at the AGM Committee membership Chairman of the Board Corporate Remuneration Committee since July 2005.
Governance and Nominations Committee since January 2007.
Barclays Asia Pacific Advisory Committee.
Independent Yes Member of the Board HR and Remuneration Committee since External appointments Dean of the London Business School January 2007. since January 2009.
Chairman of the National Audit Office since 5.
Director of the Institute for Government since Non-executive Director Age 61 September 2008.
Chairman of Applied Intellectual Capital Inc. 2.
David Booth Fulvio is currently Chief Executive Officer and General Manager until 2008.
Non-executive Director of the Bank of England Non-executive Director Age 54 of Enel SpA, the Italian energy group, where he was previously until 2008.
Non-executive Director and Vice-Chairman of the David currently manages his own venture capital investments, Chief Financial Officer from 1999-2005.
Fulvio has held a Tavistock and Portman NHS Trust until 2008.
Non-executive having retired from the Management Committee of Morgan number of high-level financial roles, including Chief Financial Director and Chairman of the MORI Group until 2005.
David was employed by Morgan Stanley from Officer and General Manager of Telecom Italia and General Managing Director, Financial Management, Reporting and 1982 to 1992, and again from 1995 to 1997.
He held various Manager and Chief Financial Officer of Ferrovie dello Stato, the Audit and Head of the Government Accountancy Service positions there, including Head of Government Bond Trading, Italian national railway.
He was also head of the accounting, at HM Treasury until 2004.
Head of Mortgage Trading, Sales and Finance and Head of finance and control department of Montecatini and was in Committee membership Member of the Board Audit Global Operations and Technology.
charge of finance at Montedison-Compart, overseeing the Committee since September 2004.
Member of the Board Risk Term of office David joined the Board in May 2007.
David was financial restructuring of the group.
He has held positions Committee since September 2004. last re-elected by shareholders at the AGM in 2008, following in finance and operations in various affiliates of Mobil Oil his appointment.
Corporation in Italy and Europe.
Independent Yes Term of office Fulvio joined the Board in April 2006.
Sir Michael Rake External appointments Director of East Ferry Investors, Inc. last re-elected by shareholders at the AGM in 2008.
Non-executive Director Age 61 Trustee of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden.
Chair of the Brooklyn Botanic Independent Yes Sir Michael is currently Chairman of BT Group PLC and Chairman Garden Investment Committee.
Various positions at Morgan Stanley External appointments Chief Executive of Enel SpA since of the UK Commission for Employment and Skills.
Discount Corporation of New York until 1993.
Director of AON Corporation since January 2008.
Chief previously worked at KPMG from 1974-2007 where he worked for Committee membership Member of the Board Risk Financial Officer and General Manager of Telecom Italia until a number of years in Continental Europe and the Middle East.
General Manager and Chief Financial Officer of Ferrovie was Senior Partner of the UK firm from 1998-2000 and Chairman dello Stato until 1998. of KPMG International from 2002-2007.
Committee membership Member of the Board Audit Committee Term of office Sir Michael joined the Board in January 2008.
Sir Richard Broadbent since September 2006.
Sir Michael was last re-elected by shareholders at the AGM in Senior Independent Director Age 55 2008, following his appointment.
Sir Richard has experience of both the private and public sector Independent Yes 6.
Professor Dame Sandra Dawson having worked in high-level banking roles and the Civil Service.
External appointments Chairman of BT Group PLC since 2007.
He was the Executive Chairman of HM Customs and Excise Non-executive Director Age 62 Director of the Financial Reporting Council since 2007. from 2000 to 2003 and was formerly a member of the Group Sandra is KPMG Professor of Management Studies at the Chairman of the UK Commission for Employment and Skills Executive Committee of Schroders PLC and a non-executive University of Cambridge and Master of Sidney Sussex College, since 2007.
Director of the McGraw-Hill Companies since Director of the Securities Institute.
Sir Richard is Chairman of Cambridge.
Sandra was Director of the Judge Business School 2007.
Chairman of KPMG International until 2007.
at Cambridge until September 2006 and she has held a range of Business in the Community from 2004 until 2007.
Term of office Sir Richard joined the Board in September of non-executive posts in organisations including Rand Europe Committee membership Member of the Board Audit 2003 and was appointed Senior Independent Director on UK, JP Morgan Fleming Claverhouse Investment Trust and Committee since January 2008.
He will succeed Stephen Russell 1st September 2004.
Sir Richard was last re-elected by Riverside Mental Health Trust.
as Chairman of the Board Audit Committee in March 2009. shareholders at the AGM in 2006.
Term of office Sandra joined the Board in March 2003.
Sandra Independent Yes will retire from the Board at the 2009 AGM in April.
External appointments Chairman of Arriva PLC since 2004.
Independent Yes Executive Chairman of HM Customs and Excise until 2003.
External appointments KPMG Professor of Management Former Group Executive Committee member of Schroders PLC.
Studies, University of Cambridge since 1995.
Master of Sidney Non-executive Director of the Securities Institute until 1995.
Director and Trustee Committee membership Chairman of the Board Risk of Oxfam since 2006.
Deputy Vice Chancellor, University of Cambridge since 2008.
Chairman, Executive Steering Committee since January 2006 member since April 2004.
Chairman of the Board HR and Remuneration Committee since Committee, ESRC Advanced Institute of Management.
Director of Cambridge Econometrics until 2007.
Director of January 2007 member since April 2004.
Member of the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee Judge Business School, University of Cambridge until 2006. since September 2004.
Deputy President of the CBI to June 2008 member 9.
Robert E Diamond Jr since 2003 and President until December 2006.
President Deputy Chairman President, Barclays PLC and CEO, Investment of ISBA the Incorporated Society of British Advertisers until Non-executive Director Age 62 Banking and Investment Management 2005.
President of the Food and Drink Federation until 2005.
Sir Nigel is non-executive Chairman of Pendragon PLC and Non-executive Director of the Rank Group PLC until 2006.
Executive Director and member of Executive BAA Limited.
He is also Deputy Chairman of Invensys plc and a Former Advisory Board Member of Trinsum Group.
Committee Age 57 non-executive Director of BAE Systems PLC and Sappi Limited.
Committee membership Member of the Board Corporate Bob is responsible for the Investment Banking and Investment He was formerly Chairman of Alliance Boots PLC.
Governance and Nominations Committee since September Management business of the Barclays Group, comprising of Term of office Sir Nigel joined the Board in February 1996 and was 2006.
Member of the Board HR and Remuneration Committee Barclays Capital, Barclays Global Investors and Barclays appointed Deputy Chairman in September 2004.
Sir Nigel will since July 2005.
He previously worked for Morgan Stanley and CS retire from the Board at the 2009 AGM in April.
First Boston, where he was Vice-Chairman and Head of Global Independent Yes Fixed Income and Foreign Exchange.
Patience Wheatcroft External appointments Chairman of Pendragon PLC since Term of office Bob was appointed President of Barclays PLC 1989.
Non-executve Director and Deputy Chairman of Invensys Non-executive Director Age 57 and became an executive Director in June 2005.
He has been a plc since January 2009.
Chairman of Alliance Boots PLC until Patience was an established financial journalist and national member of the Barclays Executive Committee since September 2007.
Director of Pilkington PLC until 2006.
Director of Kidde newspaper editor, having worked as Editor of the Sunday 1997.
Bob was last re-elected by shareholders at the AGM in PLC until 2003.
Telegraph from 2006 to 2007 and Business and City Editor of 2006, following his appointment.
Committee membership Member of the Board Corporate The Times from 1997-2006.
She is a non-executive Director of External appointments Chairman of Old Vic Productions PLC Governance and Nominations Committee since October 2001.
Shaftesbury PLC, a member of the UK India Round Table and a since September 2007.
Chairman of the Barclays Brand and Reputation Committee.
member of the British Olympic Association Advisory Board.
She is also a member of the Council of the Royal Albert Hall and Chair 15.
Christopher Lucas of the Forensic Audit Panel.
Stephen Russell Group Finance Director Term of office Patience joined the Board in January 2008.
Non-executive Director Age 63 Patience was last re-elected by shareholders at the AGM in Executive Director and member of Executive Stephen was Chief Executive of Boots Group PLC from 2000 2008 following her appointment.
Committee Age 48 until 2003, having worked for Boots since 1967.
He has held Independent Yes Chris has worked across financial services for most of his career, a number of non-executive positions and is currently a nonExternal appointments Non-executive Director of Shaftesbury including three years in New York as Head of the US Banking executive Director of Network Rail and Network Rail Infrastructure PLC since 2008.
Member of the UK India Round Table.
Member Audit Practice of  LLP.
He is a trustee of St. Johns Ambulance and Tommys of the British Olympic Association Advisory Board since 2007.
Barclays from  LLP, where he was UK the Baby Charity, is on the Council of Nottingham University Member of the Council of the Royal Albert Hall.
Chair of the Head of Financial Services and Global Head of Banking and and is Chairman of Business Control Solutions Group.
Editor of the Sunday Telegraph Capital Markets.
He was Global Relationship Partner for Barclays Term of office Stephen joined the Board in October 2000 on until 2007. Business and City Editor of The Times until 2006. for the 19992004 financial years and subsequently held completion of the acquisition of Woolwich PLC.
Stephen was last Committee membership Member of the Barclays Brand and similar roles for other global financial services organisations.
re-elected by shareholders at the AGM in 2007.
Term of office Chris was appointed Group Finance Director and Independent Yes became a member of the Executive Committee in April 2007.
External appointments Non-executive Director of Network 13.
John Varley Chris was last re-elected by shareholders at the AGM in 2007, Rail since September 2007.
Trustee of St Johns Ambulance following his appointment.
Chairman of Business Control Solutions Group since Group Chief Executive External appointments UK Head of Financial Services and 2005.
Trustee of Tommys the Baby Charity since 2003.
Member Executive Director and Chairman of Executive Global Head of Banking and Capital Markets of of the Council of Nottingham University since 2003.
Chief Committee Age 52  LLP until 2006.
Executive of Boots Group PLC until 2003.
John was appointed Group Chief Executive of Barclays on Committee membership Chairman of the Board Audit 1st September 2004, prior to which he had been Group Deputy Committee since April 2003 member since October 2000.
Frederik Frits Seegers Chief Executive from 1st January 2004.
He joined Barclays in Member of the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Chief Executive, Global Retail and Commercial 1982 and has held various positions across the Group, including Committee since September 2004.
Member of the Board Risk the position of Group Finance Director from 2000 until the end Banking Committee since October 2001 Chairman from September of 2003.
He was Chief Executive of Retail Financial Services from 2004-December 2005.
Executive Director and member of Executive 1998 to 2000 and Chairman of the Asset Management Division Committee Age 50 from 1995 to 1998.
John is a non-executive Director of Frits is responsible for the Global Retail and Commercial Banking 11.
Sir John Sunderland AstraZeneca PLC.
He is also Chairman of Business Action on business of the Barclays Group, which includes UK Retail Banking, Homelessness, President of the Employers Forum on Disability, Non-executive Director Age 63 Barclays Commercial Bank, Barclaycard, GRCB Western Europe, Honorary President of the UK Drug Policy Commission and a Sir John was Chairman of Cadbury Schweppes PLC until July GRCB Emerging Markets and GRCB Absa.
Frits joined Barclays member of the International Advisory Panel of the Monetary 2008 having worked at Cadburys in various roles, including from Citigroup where he held a number of senior positions over Authority of Singapore.
that of Chief Executive, since 1968.
He is Deputy President of the 17 years he worked there.
Most recently, he was CEO Global Term of office John joined the Executive Committee in the Chartered Management Institute, a Director of the Financial Consumer Group with a remit covering all retail operations in September 1996 and was appointed to the Board in June 1998.
Reporting Council, an Adviser to CVC Capital Partners, an Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
He was also a member of the John was last re-elected by shareholders at the AGM in 2007.
Association Member of BUPA and a Governor of both Reading Citigroup Operating Committee and the Citigroup Management External appointments Non-executive Director of and Aston University Councils.
He was CEO of Consumer Banking for Asia Pacific, AstraZeneca PLC since 2006.
Non-executive Director of British Term of office Sir John joined the Board in June 2005.
Sir John covering 11 consumer markets, between 2001 and 2004.
Chairman of Business was last re-elected by shareholders at the AGM in 2008.
Under his leadership, this region was the fastest growing part of Action on Homelessness since 2006.
President of the Independent Yes Citigroup.
Frits was a non-executive Director of Absa Group Employers Forum on Disability since 2005.
Honorary President External appointments Deputy President of the Chartered Limited from 2006 to February 2009. of the UK Drug Policy Commission since 2007.
Member of the Management Institute since 2008 President 2007-2008.
Term of office Frits joined the Board and the Executive International Advisory Panel of the Monetary Authority of Director of the Financial Reporting Council since 2004.
Frits was last re-elected by Singapore since 2006.
Adviser to CVC Capital Partners.
Association Member of shareholders at the AGM in 2007, following his appointment.
Governor Reading External appointments Chief Executive Officer of Citigroup University Council.
Chairman of Cadbury Schweppes PLC until International PLC until 2006.
com annualreport08 Risk management Risk management is a fundamental part To ensure that business growth plans are properly It is prepared each year as part of the Groups of Barclays business activity and an essential supported by effective risk infrastructure.
Medium Term Planning process, and combines component of its planning process.
To keep a top-down view of the Groups risk capacity with To manage risk profile to ensure that specific risk management at the centre of the executive a bottom-up view of the risk profile requested financial deliverables remain possible under agenda, it is embedded in the everyday and recommended by each business.
This entails a range of adverse business conditions.
The full making business plan adjustments as necessary risk management report is in our 2008 To help executives improve the control and to ensure that our Medium Term Plan creates a Annual Report.
co-ordination of risk taking across the business.
risk profile that meets our Risk Appetite.
In pursuit of these objectives, Group Risk breaks The Group ensures that it has the functional Material risks and control framework down risk management into five discrete capacity to manage the risk in new and existing As well as overall responsibility for the Groups processes: direct, assess, control, report, and businesses.
At a strategic level, our risk management risk exposure versus appetite, the Board is also manage challenge see panel below.
objectives are: responsible for the Group Internal Control and Assurance Framework GICAF.
As part of the To identify the Groups material risks and ensure Risk Appetite GICAF, it approves the Principal Risks Policy, which that business profile and plans are consistent The Groups Risk Appetite sets out the level of risk sets out responsibilities for the management of with risk appetite.
that the Group is willing to take in pursuit of its the Groups most significant risk exposures.
This is expressed as the To optimise risk return decisions by taking Board oversees the operating effectiveness of the Groups appetite for earnings volatility across all them as closely as possible to the business, Principal Risks Policy through the regular review businesses from credit, market, and operational while establishing strong and independent of reports on the Groups material risk exposures risk.
It is measured against our broad financial review and challenge structures.
targets, including income and impairment targets, dividend coverage and capital levels.
Principal Risks Other Level 1 Risks Process Strategy Retail Credit Strategic Direct Understand the principal risks to achieving Group strategy.
Wholesale Credit Change Market Corporate Sustainability Establish Risk Appetite.
Capital Brand Management Establish and communicate the risk Liquidity management framework including Financial Crime responsibilities, authorities and key controls.
Operations Technology Assess Establish the process for identifying and analysing business-level risks.
People Regulatory Agree and implement measurement and reporting standards and methodologies.
Financial Reporting Legal Control Establish key control processes and practices, Taxation including limit structures, impairment allowance criteria and reporting requirements.
Monitor the operation of the controls and adherence to risk direction and limits.
Provide early warning of control or appetite breaches.
Ensure that risk management practices and conditions are appropriate for the business environment.
Interpret and report on risk exposures, Report concentrations and risk-taking outcomes.
Interpret and report on sensitivities and Key Risk Indicators.
Manage Review and challenge all aspects of the and Groups risk profile.
Challenge Assess new risk-return opportunities.
Advise on optimising the Groups risk profile.
Review and challenge risk management practices.
Barclays PLC Annual Review 2008 23 The Groups risk categorisation comprises Every business manager is accountable has responsibility for ensuring effective risk 17 risk categories Level 1, 13 of which are for managing risk in his or her business area: they management and control.
Each Principal Risk must understand and control the key risks inherent Risk-Type Heads exist at Group-level for is owned by a senior individual at the Group level, in the business undertaken.
Each business area also the main risk types, and report to the Group Risk who liaises with Principal Risk owners within employs risk specialists to provide an independent Director.
Along with their teams, they are responsible business units and Group Centre Functions.
The control function and to support the development for establishing a risk control framework and 17 risk categories are shown in the panel below.
of a strong risk management environment.
Each Group Principal Risk Owner GPRO functional approach to risk management is built Internal Audit is responsible for the is responsible for setting minimum control on formal control processes that rely on individual independent review of risk management and the requirements for their risk and for overseeing responsibility and independent oversight, as well control environment.
The functional coverage of the risk and control performance across the Group.
as challenge through peer reviews.
risk responsibilities is shown below.
The Board approves Risk Appetite and To support risk taking, Barclays has continued Organisation and structure the Board Risk Committee monitors the Groups to strengthen the independent and specialised Responsibility for risk management resides at risk profile against this agreed appetite.
Business risk teams in each of its businesses, supported all levels within the Group, from the executive Heads are responsible for the identification and by matching teams at Group level, acting in both down through the organisation to each business management of risk in their businesses.
Each a consultancy and oversight capacity.
As a manager and risk specialist.
Barclays distributes business has an embedded risk management prerequisite to business growth plans, it has made these responsibilities so that risk return decisions team reporting to a Business Risk Director who the recruitment, development and retention of are taken at the most appropriate level: as close reports to the Group Risk Director.
The Group risk professionals a priority.
as possible to the business, and subject to robust Risk Director, under delegated authority from the and effective review and challenge.
Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, Board oversight Board Approves overall Group risk appetite Board Audit Committee Board Risk Committee Considers the adequacy and effectiveness Review the Group risk profile.
of the Group Control Framework.
Approves the Group Control Framework.
Reviews reports on control issues of Authority controls appetite Approves minimum control requirements Group-level significance.
Risk adjusted Assurance Group Chief Executive Reporting and control performance Group Executive Committee Monitors and manages risk adjusted performance of businesses.
Governance and Control Committee Risk Oversight Committee Treasury Committee Reviews the adequacy and effectiveness Ensures current risk profile is consistent Sets policy controls for liquidity, of the Group Control Framework.
maturity transformation and structural interest rate exposure.
Monitors compliance with the Debates and agrees actions on the risk Framework including remediation profile and risk strategy across the Group.
Monitors the Groups liquidity and of significant control issues.
Considers issues escalated by Risk Type Heads and Business Risk Directors.
Reviews reports on control issues of Monitors usage of regulatory and Group-level significance.
Oversees the management of the Groups capital plan.
Assurance Internal Audit Assesses the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group Control Framework.
24 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2008 | www.
com annualreport08 Summary remuneration report The disruption in the capital markets that no salary increases for 2009 The cumulative effect of delivering significant commenced in 2007 deepened in 2008 resulting proportions of remuneration in Barclays shares the total 2009 long-term awards are 64% in one of the most challenging years ever for which are typically held on a long-term basis has lower than last year, with no awards for the the global financial services sector.
The extent resulted in the executive Directors share interests Chief Executive and the President.
to which remuneration structures may have decreasing in value by an aggregate of 63m in played a role in contributing to the financial An assessment of Barclays remuneration 2008, which when added to the decrease of 32m crisis was still being debated and under scrutiny structures and how well the calibration had worked in 2007 totals 95m for the two year period as this statement was written.
As a consequence during this stressed period shows significant see fig 2. of events, the Board HR and Remuneration alignment with shareholders: The value of employee interests of shares under Committee commenced its deliberations for The Performance Share Plan PSP awards made Barclays share plan has decreased in value over the 2008 performance year earlier than usual in 2005, due for release in March 2008 lapsed in 2007 and 2008 by approximately 2bn.
and met more times than is typical.
The agenda full as the performance condition was not met.
rapidly developed into two workstreams: first, Future of remuneration the immediate decisions for 2008: and second, For the PSP awards made in relation to the The Committee commenced a review of the long-term shape of remuneration.
2006-2008 cycle, the TSR condition was not remuneration during 2008.
The objective of the met and the EP condition was partially met.
review was to assess how the pay for performance 2008 As a result, awards that are scheduled to vest culture and alignment with shareholders could be Barclays delivered profit of 6,077m, 14% lower in March 2009 at the absolute discretion of strengthened further.
So far the Committee has: than 2007.
The variable pay for the Group reduced the PSP trustee are due to vest at 1.475 times 48% relative to 2007.
Accountability rests at the initial award maximum is 3 times.
This revised the remuneration policy to accentuate the most senior levels and key factors relating represents approximately 9% of the maximum risk management and the role of behaviours in to executive Directors include: value of the number of shares that could vest the determination of remuneration at the share price at award.
zero annual performance bonus for 2008 increased the shareholding requirements for Executive Directors who have PSP awards due executive Directors from 1times to the higher to be released in 2009 shall agree that these of 2 times base salary or average total annual Total shareholder return be deferred for a further two years and subject cash compensation over the prior three years The graph in fig 1 shows that, at the end of 2008, to additional financial performance over introduced a new plan in the first quarter of a hypothetical 100 invested in Barclays on that period.
2009 for approximately 15,000 employees 31st December 2003 would have generated The existing PSP award cycles 2007 09 and to significantly increase the proportion of a total loss of 59, compared with a gain of 2008 10 are not expected to vest.
remuneration paid over multiple years.
18 if invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
Fig 1: Total shareholder return Fig 2: Executive Directors remuneration alignment of interests with shareholders Year ended 31st December Barclays PLC Total direct remuneration Indicative fair value movements Share price FTSE 100 Index during the period on beneficial shareholdings and share-based remuneration 40 31m 800 166 165 20 700 5m 134 123 118 0 600 154 100 134 500 20 120 111 400 100 40 300 32m 200 41 60 100 63m 80 0 03 04 05 06 07 08 The highest share price during the year was 5.06 and the lowest was 1.27.
The share price at the year end was 1.53.
Source: Datastream 2007 2008 Directors remuneration 2008 2007 m m Aggregate emoluments 6.0 29.2 Gains made on the exercise of share options 0.3 Amounts paid under long-term incentive schemes 7.4 Actual pension contributions to money purchase scheme 2008: one Director, 11,745 and 2007: one Director, 10,233 Notional pension contributions to money purchase scheme 2008: no Directors and 2007: no Directors 13.4 29.5 As at 31st December 2008, two Directors were accruing benefits under a defined benefits scheme 2007: three Directors.
m Share price p Barclays PLC Annual Review 2008 25 The review is continuing and will address detailed Remuneration policy Doing what is needed to ensure a leading remuneration plans and proposals which will be The revised Barclays Remuneration Policy is to: position in the global financial services industry.
Attract and retain those people with the ability, Customer and client focus Remuneration policy governance experience and skill to deliver the strategy.
Understanding what customers and To ensure appropriate operation of the clients want and need and then serving 2.
Create a direct and recognisable alignment Remuneration Policy, the Committee has them brilliantly.
between the rewards and risk exposure of established frameworks for the governance shareholders and employees, particularly Driving new ideas, especially those that of remuneration.
These frameworks will be executive Directors and senior management.
make Barclays profitable and improve control.
The current frameworks set out key financial ratios achieved by Barclays 3.
Incentivise employees to deliver sustained Improving operational excellence.
and its competitors and have been used performance consistent with strategic goals Adding diverse skills to stimulate new by the Committee to inform its decisionand appropriate risk management, and to perspectives and bold steps.
making process when approving aggregate reward success in this.
remuneration spend, including bonus and Trusted 4.
Deliver compensation that is affordable and long-term incentive expenditure, and strategic Acting with the highest levels of integrity to appropriate in terms of value allocated to investment for new hires and the remuneration retain the trust of customers, shareholders, shareholders and employees.
arrangements of any employee with annual total other external stakeholders and colleagues.
remuneration equal to or in excess of 750,000.
Encourage behaviour consistent with the Taking full responsibility for decisions Given the materiality of Barclays pension principles that guide Barclays business: and actions.
arrangements the Committee operates a specific Winning together framework for the management of pensions to Reflecting the operation of independent, Doing what is right for Barclays, its teams ensure proper oversight.
robust and evidence-based governance and colleagues, to achieve collective and and control and complying with relevant individual success.
Report legal and regulatory requirements.
The Committee unanimously recommends Best people that you vote at the 2009 AGM to approve the Developing talented colleagues and Remuneration Report as all Directors will be doing differentiating compensation to reflect with their own Barclays shares.
2008 annual remuneration Fair value long-term Annual Deferred Share incentive Total Other Salary cash bonus Award ESAS award PSP direct remuneration benefits and fees for 2008 Total cash for 2008 for 2008 000 2008 000 000 000 000 000 2008 2007 000 Group Chairman Marcus Agius 750 750 750 750 1 Executive Directors John Varley 1,075 0 1,075 0 1,075 4,218 23 Robert E Diamond Jr 250 0 250 0 250 21,125 66 Chris Lucas 638 0 638 0 800 1,438 1,895 177 Frits Seegers 700 0 700 0 1,600 2,300 4,182 202 Non-executive Directors David Booth 83 83 83 43 Sir Richard Broadbent 188 188 188 180 Leigh Clifford AO 115 115 115 97 Fulvio Conti 90 90 90 85 Professor Dame Sandra Dawson 90 90 90 85 Sir Andrew Likierman 105 105 105 100 Sir Michael Rake 90 90 90 Sir Nigel Rudd DL 200 200 200 200 Stephen Russell 153 153 153 145 Sir John Sunderland 98 98 98 95 Patience Wheatcroft 78 78 78 Former Directors Gary Hoffman 417 298 715 715 1,131 9 Dr Daniel Cronj 25 25 25 217 Annual cash bonuses for a year are normally paid in the following year.
ESAS and PSP awards for a The first 20,000 per annum of a non-executive Directors fee is used to purchase Barclays PLC year are normally awarded in the following year.
Mr Hoffman received his normal monthly salary shares which are retained until the Director retires.
benefits and pro-rated annual cash bonus, total of 90,477 for the period between the cessation As disclosed in the 2007 Report and Accounts, in March 2008 Robert E Diamond Jr received of his directorship and 30th September 2008, the date of the cessation of his employment.
a cash payment of 7.425m and an award of shares deferred for one year under ESAS of Leigh Clifford was also a member of the Asia Pacific Advisory Committee and received fees of 7.425m, from the Retained Incentive Opportunity 2005-2007 in which he participated.
These fees are included in those shown above.
com annualreport08 Shareholder support 2009 diary Online information Barclays goes to great lengths to keep to the dates published here Online Annual Results information View dividend information, including but please note that all future announcement dates are provisional Barclays has increased the electronic tax vouchers and subject to change.
information that shareholders Change your address and or bank can see online at details online www.
com annualreport08 See shareholder documents such as This includes an expanded Annual 23rd April 2009 the Annual Review, Annual Report or Review and the full Annual Report.
Annual General Meeting Results Announcements online The Barclays Annual General Meeting You can watch videos of our senior Register your voting instructions for AGM will be held at The Queen management team talking about our General Meetings Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad performance in 2008 and the outlook Sanctuary, Westminster, London for 2009.
You can join Barclays e-view SW1P 3EE on Thursday 23rd April 2009 online using your Shareholder at 11.00a.
m. The Notice of Meeting, Electronic communication or Sharestore Reference Number: which contains the full wording of the resolutions and biographical details An increasing number of shareholders www.
co. uk of the Directors standing for re-election at the 2009 AGM, is available on our receive their Barclays communications website at www.
com investorrelations electronically and are discovering Register for electronic communications the convenience of using the internet by following the onscreen instructions 14th May 2009 and email to find out about their Interim Management Statement You will be sent an access number shareholdings and Barclays.
in the post the next working day 6th August 2009 Barclays e-view Half-Year Results for 2009 The easiest way to get your Barclays e-view is an easy and shareholder information convenient way to: www.
com investorrelations Access your Barclays shareholding Have your say details and check share sales, Manage your portfolio online If you would like to ask a question at the AGM, you can register your purchases or transfer Barclays offers specialist question at the Question Registration Point in the Benjamin Britten Lounge stockbroking services at: at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre.
Shareholders who are unable Receive important shareholder www.
co. uk to attend the meeting still have the opportunity to submit a question to information directly to your the Board by writing to the Company Secretary at Barclays PLC, email address 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP or emailing @barclays.
These questions will be answered at the meeting and a summary of the questions asked at the AGM will be available on the Barclays website at www.
com investorrelations Your Dividend As announced on 13th October 2008, in light of the new capital ratios agreed with the FSA and in recognition of the need to maximise capital resources in the current economic climate, the Board concluded that it would not be appropriate to pay a final dividend for 2008.
Audio version Extracts from this Annual Review are available, free of charge, by calling the Shareholder Helpline.
0871 384 2055 in the UK 44 121 415 7004 from overseas Audio versions will also be available at the AGM.
Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute if using a BT landline.
Barclays PLC Annual Review 2008 27 Manage your shareholding Contact information Barclays Sharestore The Barclays Dividend What to do if a shareholder Our Registrar Barclays Sharestore is a convenient Reinvestment Plan DRIP has died Phone way to hold your Barclays shares The DRIP is a straightforward You should write to the Registrar by Barclays Shareholder Helpline electronically, without a share and cost-effective way of using sending a certified copy of the death 0871 384 2055 from the UK certificate.
Each year you will be your dividends to build your certificate together with the original 44 121 415 7004 outside the UK sent a statement which sets shareholding in Barclays.
Please Grant of Probate or a sealed office out your shareholding.
To join contact the Barclays Shareholder copy or the Letters of Administration.
Email Sharestore you should phone the Helpline for more details or The name s of the deceaseds questions@share-registers.
co. uk Barclays Shareholder Helpline download the application form from personal representative s will be Post and ask for an application form or www.
com investorrelations put on the share register while the The Registrar to Barclays download the application form from estate is finalised.
The Registrar will Aspect House www.
com investorrelations If you move house then place a temporary marker on Spencer Road, Lancing Transferring your shares to the register to ensure that wherever West Sussex BN99 6DA Sharestore is free.
possible, they do not issue further dividend payments or other ABC Textphone Amalgamate your shareholding correspondence in the shareholders 0871 384 2255 in the UK If you have two different accounts name.
They will also send you the 44 121 415 7028 outside the UK on the Barclays Share Register forms that you will need to complete.
some shares held in paper form Buying and selling shares share certificates and some in ShareGift your shares If you hold your shares in Barclays Barclays Sharestore, you may want Please remember to write to the ShareGift, the charity donation Sharestore, you are only able to deal to join the accounts together and Registrar if you move house.
You scheme, is a free service for through Barclays Stockbrokers.
For hold all your shares in Sharestore.
must enclose a copy of your latest shareholders wanting to give the special internet dealing service This means you would not receive Barclays dividend tax voucher, share shares to charitable causes.
Further for Barclays Sharestore members two copies of our documents and certificate or annual statement of information can be obtained at visit www.
co. uk you would receive one dividend entitlement with your letter.
org or by telephoning or contact Barclays Stockbrokers payment each time a dividend is ensures that we protect your ShareGift on 44 0 207 930 3737. by phone on: paid, rather than two.
0845 604 0077 in the UK the Barclays Shareholder Helpline Personal information security 44 141 352 3934 outside the UK for a form.
If you lose your share certificate You should contact the Registrar and The share price Mandate your dividend ask for a replacement.
You will be Information on the Barclays It is safer and quicker to have sent a form of indemnity to sign and share price is available at your dividend paid directly into return.
A new certificate will then be www.
com investorrelations your bank account or building sent to you.
Please note that there is and on Teletext.
You may be a charge for this service.
charged 10 plus VAT if you lose Give us your feedback your dividend cheque and it is Please be vigilant about your If you have any feedback on the reissued to you.
You can download personal information security, format of our Annual Review please a bank mandate form at whether it be bank statements, let us know by emailing us at www.
com investorrelations credit card bills or information  Alternatively, you can phone the about your shareholding.
your bank account details and Shareholder and Sharestore Reference Numbers are kept safe and your details up to date.
Calls made to 0845 numbers are free for BT residential customers as part of their inclusive call package: otherwise calls will cost no more than 4p per minute plus 8p call set-up fee current as at February 2009.
The price on non-BT phones may vary: please check with your service provider.
Calls may be recorded to monitor the quality of our service, to check instructions and for security purposes.
Full Annual Report The Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement is only a summary of information in the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008.
Please note that this Annual Review, This Review is printed on Revive 100 Offset made Summary Financial Statement and Summary from 100% FSC certified recycled fibre sourced remuneration report does not contain sufficient from fide-inked post-consumer waste.
The printer and information to allow a full understanding of manufacturing mill are both credited with ISO 14001 the results of the Group and the state of affairs Environmental Management Systems Standard and of the Company or of the Group.
For further both are FSC certified.
information consult the Annual Report 2008.
You can obtain a copy of the Annual Report 2008 Registered office: and may also elect to receive all future Annual 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP Reports, free of charge, by telephoning our Registered in England.
Registered No: 48839 Registrar on 0871 384 2055 or you can view Barclays Bank PLC 2009 a copy at: www.
com annualreport08 The Annual Report 2008 contains the 9910116 Directors report, the Remuneration report, Designed by Pauffley the Auditors report and the Financial Statements.
The Auditors report on the full accounts for the year ended 31st December 2008 was unqualified and did not include a statement under sections 237 2 accounting records or returns inadequate or accounts not agreeing with records and returns or 237 3 failure to obtain necessary information and explanations of the Companies Act 1985.
The statement under section 235 3 whether Directors report is consistent with accounts was unqualified.
com annualreport08 Forward-looking statements This document contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to certain of the Groups plans and its current goals and expectations relating to its future financial condition and performance.
Barclays cautions readers that no forward-looking statement is a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts.
Forward-looking statements sometimes use words such as may, will, seek, continue, aim, anticipate, target, expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe or other words of similar meaning.
Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements regarding the Groups future financial position, income growth, assets, impairment charges, business strategy, capital ratios, leverage, payment of dividends, projected levels of growth in the banking and financial markets, projected costs, estimates of capital expenditures, and plans and objectives for future operations and other statements that are not historical fact.
By their nature, forwardlooking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances, including, but not limited to, UK domestic and global economic and business conditions, the effects of continued volatility in credit markets, market related risks such as changes in interest rates and exchange rates, effects of changes in valuation of credit market exposures, changes in valuation of issued notes, the policies and actions of governmental and regulatory authorities, changes in legislation, the further development of standards and interpretations under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS applicable to past, current and future periods, evolving practices with regard to the interpretation and application of standards under IFRS, progress in the integration of the Lehman Brothers North American businesses into the Groups business and the quantification of the benefits resulting from such acquisition, the outcome of pending and future litigation, the success of future acquisitions and other strategic transactions and the impact of competition a number of which factors are beyond the Groups control.
As a result, the Groups actual future results may differ materially from the plans, goals, and expectations set forth in the Groups forward-looking statements.
Any forward-looking statements made herein speak only as of the date they are made.
Except as required by the UK Financial Services Authority FSA, the London Stock Exchange or applicable law, Barclays expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained in this announcement to reflect any change in Barclays expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
