Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 191-203. qxp:B File 13 6 3 09 01:31 Page 191 Independent Auditors report Independent Auditors Report to the members of Barclays PLC The other information comprises only the Barclays Today, Key Performance Indicators, Group Chairmans Statement, Group Chief We have audited the Group and Parent company financial statements the financial statements of Barclays PLC the Company for the year Executives Review, Financial Review, Corporate Sustainability, Our People, Risk Management, Directors Report, Corporate Governance report, the ended 31st December 2008 which comprise the Consolidated and Parent company income statements, Consolidated and Parent company balance unaudited part of the Remuneration Report, Accountability and Audit and Presentation of Information.
We consider the implications for our sheets, Consolidated and Parent company cash flow statements, Consolidated and Parent company statements of recognised income and report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not expense, the accounting policies and the related notes in the section headed Notes to the accounts.
These financial statements have been extend to any other information.
prepared under the accounting policies set out in the section headed Basis of audit opinion Accounting Policies.
We have also audited the information in the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit the auditable part.
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are European Union are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently for the accounts within the section headed Accountability and audit.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Remuneration Report.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to auditable part of the Remuneration Report in accordance with relevant provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing financial statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report.
any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown Opinion or into whose hands it may come, save where expressly agreed by our In our opinion: prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups auditable part of the Remuneration Report have been properly prepared and the Parent companys affairs as at 31st December 2008 and of the in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group Groups and the Parent companys profit and cash flows for the year financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you then ended: whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is the financial statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the Financial Review that is cross referred from the Corporate Governance 3 IAS Regulation: and section of the Directors Report.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information financial statements.
and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance report reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the  LLP Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control London, United Kingdom cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the 5th March 2009 Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
Notes a The maintenance and integrity of the Barclays PLC website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 191 C14170 Barclays B 191-203. qxp:B File 13 6 3 09 01:31 Page 192 Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms report Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process to the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Barclays PLC designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of In our opinion, the accompanying Consolidated income statements and financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
the related Consolidated balance sheets, Consolidated statements of recognised income and expense and, Consolidated statements of cash A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that i pertain to the maintenance of records that, flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Barclays PLC the Company and its subsidiaries at 31st December 2008 in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company: ii provide reasonable and 31st December 2007 and the results of their operations and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 31st December 2008, assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Also, in our accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management opinion the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of 31st December 2008, based on and directors of the company: and iii provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
The Companys management are responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Managements report on internal any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, control over financial reporting as it pertains to Barclays PLC in the section headed Accountability and audit.
Our responsibility is to express opinions or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
on these financial statements and on the Companys internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits.
We conducted our As described in Managements report on internal control over financial reporting, management has excluded certain of the Lehman audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that Brothers North American investment banking and capital markets businesses acquired from Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc from its we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of 31st December 2008 as they were acquired in a purchase business combination in whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the financial statements included September 2008.
We have also excluded certain of the Lehman Brothers North American investment banking and capital markets businesses, examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting acquired from Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc from our audit of internal control over financial reporting.
These businesses represented principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
Our audit of approximately 1.1% of group income and 0.2% of the total Group assets for the year ended 31st December 2008. internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we  LLP considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audits Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
London, United Kingdom 5th March 2009 | 192 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 191-203. qxp:B File 13 6 3 09 01:31 Page 193 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies Significant accounting policies Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date that 1.
Reporting entity These financial statements are prepared for the Barclays PLC Group control ceases.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the Barclays or the Group under Section 227 2 of the Companies Act 1985.
The Group is a major global financial services provider engaged purchase of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities in retail and commercial banking, credit cards, investment banking, wealth management and investment management services.
In addition, incurred or assumed, plus any costs directly related to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Groups share of the individual financial statements have been prepared for the holding company, Barclays PLC the Company, under Section 226 2 b fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
See accounting policy 14 for the accounting policy for goodwill.
A gain on of the Companies Act 1985.
Barclays PLC is a public limited company, incorporated in Great Britain acquisition is recognised in profit or loss if there is an excess of the Groups share of the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired over the cost and having a registered office in England.
Intra-group transactions and balances are eliminated on 2.
Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards consolidation and consistent accounting policies are used throughout the The consolidated financial statements of the Barclays PLC Group, and Group for the purposes of the consolidation.
the individual financial statements of Barclays PLC, have been prepared As the consolidated financial statements include partnerships where in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs a Group member is a partner, advantage has been taken of the exemption and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting of Regulation 7 of the Partnerships and Unlimited Companies Accounts Interpretations Committee IFRIC, as published by the International Regulations 1993 with regard to the preparation and filing of individual Accounting Standards Board IASB.
They are also in accordance with partnership financial statements.
IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union.
In the individual financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of stated at cost less impairment, if any.
the consolidated and individual financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied.
Associates and joint ventures An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence, 3.
Basis of preparation but not control, over the operating and financial management policy The consolidated and individual financial statements have been prepared decisions.
This is generally demonstrated by the Group holding in under the historical cost convention modified to include the fair valuation excess of 20%, but no more than 50%, of the voting rights.
of certain financial instruments and contracts to buy or sell non-financial A joint venture exists where the Group has a contractual arrangement items and trading inventories to the extent required or permitted under with one or more parties to undertake activities typically, though not accounting standards and as set out in the relevant accounting polices.
necessarily, through entities which are subject to joint control.
They are stated in millions of pounds Sterling m, the currency of the Unless designated as at fair value through profit and loss as set out in country in which Barclays PLC is incorporated.
policy 7, the Groups investments in associates and joint ventures are Critical accounting estimates initially recorded at cost and increased or decreased each year by the The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRSs Groups share of the post-acquisition profit or loss, or other movements requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires reflected directly in the equity of the associated or jointly controlled entity.
management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate or joint venture is accounting policies.
The notes to the financial statements set out areas included in the carrying amount of the investment net of any accumulated involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where impairment loss.
When the Groups share of losses or other reductions in assumptions are significant to the consolidated and individual financial equity in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds the recorded 3 statements such as fair value of financial instruments Note 50, allowance interest, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not for impairment Note 47, goodwill Note 21, intangible assets Note 22, recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made and retirement benefit obligations Note 30. payments on behalf of the entity.
The Groups share of the results of associates and joint ventures is 4.
Consolidation based on financial statements made up to a date not earlier than three Subsidiaries months before the balance sheet date, adjusted to conform with the The consolidated financial statements combine the financial statements accounting polices of the Group.
Unrealised gains on transactions are of Barclays PLC and all its subsidiaries, including certain special purpose eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
Unrealised entities SPEs where appropriate, made up to 31st December.
Entities losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of qualify as subsidiaries where the Group has the power to govern the impairment in the asset transferred.
financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from In the individual financial statements, investments in associates and its activities, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one joint ventures are stated at cost less impairment, if any.
half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered in assessing 5.
Foreign currency translation whether the Group controls another entity.
Details of the principal Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities subsidiaries are given in Note 41. are measured using their functional currency, being the currency of the SPEs are consolidated when the substance of the relationship primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
between the Group and that entity indicates control.
Potential indicators of Foreign currency transactions are translated into the appropriate control include, amongst others, an assessment of the Groups exposure functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of to the risks and benefits of the SPE.
Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are This assessment of risks and benefits is based on arrangements in retranslated at the rate prevailing at the period end.
Foreign exchange place and the assessed risk exposures at inception.
The initial assessment gains and losses resulting from the retranslation and settlement of these is reconsidered at a later date if: items are recognised in the income statement except for qualifying cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments.
See policy 12 for the policies a the Group acquires additional interests in the entity: on hedge accounting.
b the contractual arrangements of the entity are amended such that the Non-monetary assets that are measured at fair value are translated relative exposure to risks and benefits change: or using the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined.
Exchange differences on equities and similar non-monetary items held at c if the Group acquires control over the main operating and financial fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair value gain decisions of the entity.
Translation differences on equities classified as available for sale financial assets and non-monetary items are included directly in equity.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 193 C14170 Barclays B 191-203. qxp:B File 13 6 3 09 01:31 Page 194 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies For the purposes of translation into the presentational currency, Insurance premiums assets, liabilities and equity of foreign operations are translated at the Insurance premiums are recognised in the period earned.
closing rate, and items of income and expense are translated into Sterling Net trading income at the rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions, or average rates Income arises from the margins which are achieved through marketof exchange where these approximate to actual rates.
making and customer business and from changes in fair value caused by The exchange differences arising on the translation of a foreign movements in interest and exchange rates, equity prices and other market operation are included in cumulative translation reserves within variables.
Trading positions are held at fair value and the resulting gains shareholders equity and included in the profit or loss on disposal or partial and losses are included in the income statement, together with interest disposal of the operation.
and dividends arising from long and short positions and funding costs Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of relating to trading activities.
foreign subsidiaries are maintained in the functional currency of the foreign operation, translated at the closing rate and are included in hedges Dividends from subsidiaries of net investments where appropriate.
In the individual financial statements of Barclays PLC, dividends from On transition to IFRS, the Group brought forward a nil opening subsidiaries are recognised when the right to receive payment is balance on the cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment arising established, which is when the dividends are received or when the from the retranslation of foreign operations, which is shown as a separate dividends are appropriately authorised by the subsidiary.
Interest, fees and commissions Financial assets Interest The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: Interest is recognised in interest income and interest expense in the financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss: loans and income statement for all interest bearing financial instruments classified receivables: held to maturity investments and available for sale financial as held to maturity, available for sale or other loans and receivables using assets.
Management determines the classification of financial assets and the effective interest method.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss cost of a financial asset or liability or group of assets and liabilities and of Financial instruments are classified in this category if they are held for allocating the interest income or interest expense over the relevant period.
trading, or if they are designated by management under the fair value The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the expected option.
Instruments are classified as held for trading if they are: future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument, or when appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying a acquired principally for the purposes of selling or repurchasing in the amount of the instrument.
The application of the method has the effect of near term: recognising income and expense receivable or payable on the b part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed instrument evenly in proportion to the amount outstanding over the together and for which there is evidence of a recent actual pattern of period to maturity or repayment.
short-term profit-taking: or In calculating effective interest, the Group estimates cash flows using projections based on its experience of customers behaviour considering c a derivative, except for a derivative that is a financial guarantee all contractual terms of the financial instrument but excluding future credit contract or a designated and effective hedging instrument.
Fees, including those for early redemption, are included in the It is not possible to transfer a financial instrument out of this category calculation to the extent that they can be measured and are considered to whilst it is held or issued with the exception of non-derivative financial be an integral part of the effective interest rate.
Cash flows arising from the assets held for trading which may be transferred out of this category from direct and incremental costs of issuing financial instruments are also taken 1st July 2008 after initial classification where: into account in the calculation.
Where it is not possible to otherwise estimate reliably the cash flows or the expected life of a financial a in rare circumstances, it is no longer held for the purpose of selling or instrument, effective interest is calculated by reference to the payments or repurchasing in the near term, or receipts specified in the contract, and the full contractual term.
b it is no longer held for the purpose of trading, it would have met the Fees and commissions definition of a loan and receivable on initial classification and the Unless included in the effective interest calculation, fees and commissions Group has the intention and ability to hold it for the foreseeable are recognised on an accruals basis as the service is provided.
Fees and future or until maturity.
commissions not integral to effective interest arising from negotiating, or Financial instruments included in this category are recognised initially participating in the negotiation of a transaction from a third party, such as at fair value and transaction costs are taken directly to the income the acquisition of loans, shares or other securities or the purchase or sale statement.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included of businesses, are recognised on completion of the underlying transaction.
directly in the income statement.
The instruments are derecognised when Portfolio and other management advisory and service fees are recognised the rights to receive cash flows have expired or the Group has transferred based on the applicable service contracts.
Asset management fees related substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and the transfer to investment funds are recognised over the period the service is provided.
The same principle is applied to the recognition of income from wealth Regular way purchases and sales of financial instruments held for management, financial planning and custody services that are trading or designated under the fair value option are recognised on trade continuously provided over an extended period of time.
date, being the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the Commitment fees, together with related direct costs, for loan facilities asset.
The fair value option is used in the following circumstances: where draw down is probable are deferred and recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest on the loan once drawn.
Commitment a financial assets backing insurance contracts and financial assets fees in relation to facilities where draw down is not probable are backing investment contracts are designated at fair value through recognised over the term of the commitment.
profit or loss because the related liabilities have cash flows that are contractually based on the performance of the assets or the related liabilities are insurance contracts whose measurement incorporates current information.
Fair valuing the assets through profit and loss significantly reduces the recognition inconsistencies that would arise if the financial assets were classified as available for sale: | 194 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 191-203. qxp:B File 13 6 3 09 01:31 Page 195 b financial assets, loans to customers, financial liabilities, financial Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost, except for trading guarantees and structured notes may be designated at fair value through profit or loss if they contain substantive embedded derivatives: liabilities and liabilities designated at fair value, which are held at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when c financial assets, loans to customers, financial liabilities, financial extinguished.
guarantees and structured notes may be designated at fair value through profit or loss where doing so significantly reduces Determining fair value measurement inconsistencies that would arise if the related Where the classification of a financial instrument requires it to be stated derivatives were treated as held for trading and the underlying at fair value, fair value is determined by reference to a quoted market price financial instruments were carried at amortised cost: and for that instrument or by using a valuation model.
Where the fair value is calculated using valuation models, the methodology is to calculate the d certain private equity and other investments that are managed, and expected cash flows under the terms of each specific contract and then evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk discount these values back to a present value.
These models use as their management or investment strategy and reported to key basis independently sourced market parameters including, for example, management personnel on that basis.
interest rate yield curves, equities and commodities prices, option Loans and receivables volatilities and currency rates.
For financial liabilities measured at fair value, Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or the carrying amount reflects the effect on fair value of changes in own determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and which credit spreads by applying the appropriate Barclays credit default swap are not classified as available for sale.
Loans and receivables are initially spreads.
Most market parameters are either directly observable or are recognised at fair value including direct and incremental transaction costs.
The model may perform numerical They are subsequently valued at amortised cost, using the effective procedures in the pricing such as interpolation when input values do not interest method see accounting policy 6.
They are derecognised when directly correspond to the most actively traded market trade parameters.
the rights to receive cash flows have expired or the Group has transferred However, where valuations include significant unobservable inputs, the substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
transaction price is deemed to provide the best evidence of initial fair value Regular way purchases and sales of loans and receivables are for accounting purposes.
As such, profits or losses are recognised upon recognised on contractual settlement.
trade inception only when such profits can be measured solely by reference to observable market data.
For valuations that include significant Held to maturity unobservable inputs, the difference between the model valuation and the Held to maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with initial transaction price is recognised in profit or loss: fixed or determinable payments that the Groups management has the a on a straight-line basis over the term of the transaction, or over the intention and ability to hold to maturity.
They are initially recognised at fair value including direct and incremental transaction costs.
They are period until all model inputs will become observable where appropriate, or: subsequently valued at amortised cost, using the effective interest method see accounting policy 6.
They are derecognised when the b released in full where previously unobservable inputs become rights to receive cash flows have expired.
Regular way purchases of held to maturity financial assets are Various factors influence the availability of observable inputs and these recognised on trade date, being the date on which the Group commits to purchase the asset.
may vary from product to product and change over time.
Factors include for example, the depth of activity in the relevant market, the type of Available for sale product, whether the product is new and not widely traded in the market Available for sale assets are non-derivative financial assets that are 3 place, the maturity of market modelling and the nature of the transaction designated as available for sale and are not categorised into any of the bespoke or generic.
To the extent that valuation is based on models other categories described above.
They are initially recognised at fair value or inputs that are not observable in the market, the determination of fair including direct and incremental transaction costs.
They are subsequently value can be more subjective, dependant on the significance of the held at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are unobservable input to the overall valuation.
Unobservable inputs are included as a separate component of equity until sale when the determined based on the best information available, for example by cumulative gain or loss is transferred to the income statement.
Interest reference to similar assets, similar maturities or other analytical determined using the effective interest method see accounting policy 6, techniques.
impairment losses and translation differences on monetary items are recognised in the income statement.
The assets are derecognised when 8.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective the rights to receive cash flows have expired or the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
evidence that loans and receivables or available for sale financial investments are impaired.
These are impaired and impairment losses are Regular way purchases and sales of available for sale financial instruments are recognised on trade date, being the date on which the incurred if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more loss events that occurred after the initial recognition of the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
A financial asset classified as available for sale that would have met asset and prior to the balance sheet date a loss event and that loss event or events has had an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the definition of loans and receivables may only be transferred from the available for sale classification where the Group has the intention and the the financial asset or the portfolio that can be reliably estimated.
The criteria that the Group uses to determine that there is objective evidence ability to hold the asset for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
of an impairment loss include: Embedded derivatives Some hybrid contracts contain both a derivative and a non-derivative a significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligor: component.
In such cases, the derivative component is termed an b a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or embedded derivative.
Where the economic characteristics and risks of the principal payments: embedded derivatives are not closely related to those of the host contract, and the host contract itself is not carried at fair value through profit or loss, c the lender, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrowers the embedded derivative is bifurcated and reported at fair value with gains financial difficulty, granting to the borrower a concession that the and losses being recognised in the income statement.
lender would not otherwise consider: Profits or losses cannot be recognised on the initial recognition of d it becomes probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other embedded derivatives unless the host contract is also carried at fair value.
financial reorganisation: Loan commitments e the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because Loan commitments, where the Group has a past practice of selling the of financial difficulties: or resulting assets shortly after origination, are held at fair value through profit or loss.
Other loan commitments are accounted for in accordance with policy 23.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 195 C14170 Barclays B 191-203. qxp:B File 13 6 3 09 01:31 Page 196 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies f observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in Equity securities acquired in exchange for loans in order to achieve an orderly realisation are accounted for as a disposal of the loan and an the estimated future cash flows from a portfolio of financial assets since the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease acquisition of equity securities.
Where control is obtained over an entity as a result of the transaction, the entity is consolidated.
Any further cannot yet be identified with the individual financial assets in the portfolio, including: impairment of the assets or business acquired is treated as an impairment of the relevant asset or business and not as an impairment of the original i adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers in instrument.
the portfolio: In the case of available for sale equity securities, a significant ii national or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is also considered in determining whether impairment exists.
Where such on the assets in the portfolio.
evidence exists, the cumulative net loss that has been previously For loans and receivables the Group first assesses whether objective recognised directly in equity is removed from equity and recognised in the evidence of impairment exists individually for loans and receivables that income statement.
In the case of debt instruments classified as available are individually significant, and individually or collectively for loans and for sale, impairment is assessed based on the same criteria as all other receivables that are not individually significant.
If the Group determines financial assets.
Reversals of impairment of debt instruments are that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually recognised in the income statement.
Reversals of impairment of equity assessed loan and receivable, whether significant or not, it includes shares are not recognised in the income statement, increases in the fair the asset in a group of loans and receivables with similar credit risk value of equity shares after impairment are recognised directly in equity.
characteristics and collectively assesses them for impairment.
Loans and receivables that are individually assessed for impairment and 9.
Sale and repurchase agreements including stock borrowing for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not and lending included in a collective assessment of impairment.
Securities may be lent or sold subject to a commitment to repurchase The amount of impairment loss is measured as the difference them a repo.
Such securities are retained on the balance sheet when between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership remain with the Group, future cash flows discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
and the counterparty liability is included separately on the balance sheet The amount of the loss is recognised using an allowance account and when cash consideration is received.
recognised in the income statement.
Similarly, where the Group borrows or purchases securities subject Where appropriate, the calculation of the present value of the to a commitment to resell them a reverse repo but does not acquire estimated future cash flows of a collateralised loan and receivable asset the risks and rewards of ownership, the transactions are treated as reflect the cash flows that may result from foreclosure costs for obtaining collateralised loans when cash consideration is paid, and the securities and selling the collateral, whether or not foreclosure is probable.
are not included in the balance sheet.
For the purposes of a collective evaluation of impairment, loans and The difference between sale and repurchase price is accrued over the receivables are grouped on the basis of similar risk characteristics, taking life of the agreements using the effective interest method.
Securities lent into account asset type, industry, geographical location, collateral type, to counterparties are also retained in the financial statements.
Securities past-due status and other relevant factors.
These characteristics are borrowed are not recognised in the financial statements, unless these are relevant to the estimation of future cash flows for groups of such assets sold to third parties, at which point the obligation to repurchase by being indicative of the counterpartys ability to pay all amounts due the securities is recorded as a trading liability at fair value and any according to the contractual terms of the assets being evaluated.
subsequent gain or loss included in net trading income.
Future cash flows in a group of loans and receivables that are 10.
Securitisation transactions collectively evaluated for impairment are estimated on the basis of the Certain Group undertakings have issued debt securities or have entered contractual cash flows of the assets in the group and historical loss into funding arrangements with lenders in order to finance specific loans experience for assets with credit risk characteristics similar to those in the and advances to customers.
Historical loss experience is adjusted based on current observable All financial assets continue to be held on the Group balance sheet, data to reflect the effects of current conditions that did not affect the and a liability recognised for the proceeds of the funding transaction, period on which the historical loss experience is based and to remove the unless: effects of conditions in the historical period that do not currently exist.
The methodology and assumptions used for estimating future cash a substantially all the risks and rewards associated with the financial flows are reviewed regularly to reduce any differences between loss instruments have been transferred, in which case, the assets are estimates and actual loss experience.
derecognised in full: or Following impairment, interest income is recognised using the b if a significant portion, but not all, of the risks and rewards have been effective rate of interest which was used to discount the future cash transferred, the asset is derecognised entirely if the transferee has the flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
ability to sell the financial asset, otherwise the asset continues to be When a loan is uncollectable, it is written off against the related recognised only to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement.
Such loans are written off after all the necessary procedures have been completed and the amount of the loss Where a or b above applies to a fully proportionate share of all or specifically identified cash flows, the relevant accounting treatment has been determined.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to the income statement.
is applied to that proportion of the asset.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance account.
The amount of the reversal is recognised in the income statement.
| 196 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 191-203. qxp:B File 13 6 3 09 01:31 Page 197 11.
Collateral and netting In certain circumstances, the Group may decide to cease hedge accounting even though the hedge relationship continues to be highly The Group enters into master agreements with counterparties whenever possible and, when appropriate, obtains collateral.
Master agreements effective by no longer designating the financial instrument as a hedging instrument.
To the extent that the changes in the fair value of the hedging provide that, if an event of default occurs, all outstanding transactions with the counterparty will fall due and all amounts outstanding will be derivative differ from changes in the fair value of the hedged risk in the hedged item: or the cumulative change in the fair value of the hedging settled on a net basis.
derivative differs from the cumulative change in the fair value of expected Collateral future cash flows of the hedged item, the hedge is deemed to include The Group obtains collateral in respect of customer liabilities where this ineffectiveness.
The amount of ineffectiveness, provided it is not so great is considered appropriate.
The collateral normally takes the form of a lien as to disqualify the entire hedge for hedge accounting, is recorded in the over the customers assets and gives the Group a claim on these assets income statement.
for both existing and future customer liabilities.
The Group also receives collateral in the form of cash or securities in Fair value hedge accounting respect of other credit instruments, such as stock borrowing contracts, Changes in fair value of derivatives that qualify and are designated as and derivative contracts in order to reduce credit risk.
Collateral received fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with in the form of securities is not recorded on the balance sheet.
Collateral changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are received in the form of cash is recorded on the balance sheet with a attributable to the hedged risk.
These items are assigned to deposits received from If the hedge relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge bank or other counterparties.
Any interest payable or receivable arising is accounting, it is discontinued.
For fair value hedges of interest rate risk, recorded as interest expense or interest income respectively except for the fair value adjustment to the hedged item is amortised to the income funding costs relating to trading activities which are recorded in net statement over the period to maturity of the previously designated hedge trading income.
relationship using the effective interest method.
If the hedged item is sold or repaid, the unamortised fair value Netting adjustment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet if, and only if, there is a legally enforceable right to Cash flow hedges For qualifying cash flow hedges, the fair value gain or loss associated set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise an asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
In many with the effective portion of the cash flow hedge is recognised initially in shareholders equity, and recycled to the income statement in the cases, even though master netting agreements are in place, the lack of an intention to settle on a net basis results in the related assets and liabilities periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the being presented gross in the balance sheet.
Hedge accounting When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no Derivatives are used to hedge interest rate, exchange rate, commodity, and longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss equity exposures and exposures to certain indices such as house price existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when indices and retail price indices related to non-trading positions.
the hedged item is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a Where derivatives are held for risk management purposes, and when forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or transactions meet the required criteria, the Group applies loss that was recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the fair value hedge accounting, cash flow hedge accounting, or hedging income statement.
of a net investment in a foreign operation as appropriate to the risks being hedged.
Hedges of net investments 3 When a financial instrument is designated as a hedge, the Group Hedges of net investments in foreign operations, including monetary items formally documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and that are accounted for as part of the net investment, are accounted for hedged item as well as its risk management objectives and its strategy for similarly to cash flow hedges: the effective portion of the gain or loss on undertaking the various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity and the ineffective its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The cumulative whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly gain or loss previously recognised in equity is recognised in the income effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
statement on the disposal or partial disposal of the foreign operation.
The Group discontinues hedge accounting when: Hedges of net investments may include non-derivative liabilities as well as derivative financial instruments although for a non-derivative a It is determined that a derivative is not, or has ceased to be, highly liability only the foreign exchange risk is designated as a hedge.
effective as a hedge: Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting b the derivative expires, or is sold, terminated, or exercised: Derivative contracts entered into as economic hedges that do not qualify c the hedged item matures or is sold or repaid: or for hedge accounting are held at fair value through profit or loss.
d a forecast transaction is no longer deemed highly probable.
Property, plant and equipment Property and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and provisions for impairment, if any.
Additions and subsequent expenditures are capitalised only to the extent that they enhance the future economic benefits expected to be derived from the assets.
Depreciation is provided on the depreciable amount of items of property and equipment on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives.
The depreciable amount is the gross carrying amount, less the estimated residual value at the end of its useful economic life.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 197 C14170 Barclays B 191-203. qxp:B File 13 6 3 09 01:31 Page 198 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies The Group uses the following annual rates in calculating depreciation: Other intangible assets Other intangible assets consist of brands, customer lists, licences and Freehold buildings and long-leasehold property other contracts, core deposit intangibles, mortgage servicing rights and more than 50 years to run 2-3.3% customer relationships.
Other intangible assets are initially recognised Leasehold property Over the remaining when they are separable or arise from contractual or other legal rights, less than 50 years to run life of the lease the cost can be measured reliably and, in the case of intangible assets Costs of adaptation of freehold and not acquired in a business combination, where it is probable that future a leasehold property 7-10% economic benefits attributable to the assets will flow from their use.
The Equipment installed in freehold and value of intangible assets which are acquired in a business combination is a leasehold property 7-10% generally determined using income approach methodologies such as the Computers and similar equipment 20-33% discounted cash flow method and the relief from royalty method that Fixtures and fittings and other equipment 10-20% estimate net cash flows attributable to an asset over its economic life and discount to present value using an appropriate rate of return based on the cost of equity adjusted for risk.
Depreciation rates, methods and the residual values underlying the Other intangible assets are stated at cost less amortisation and calculation of depreciation of items of property, plant and equipment provisions for impairment, if any, and are amortised over their useful lives are kept under review to take account of any change in circumstances.
in a manner that reflects the pattern to which they contribute to future When deciding on depreciation rates and methods, the principal cash flows, generally over 4-25 years.
factors the Group takes into account are the expected rate of technological developments and expected market requirements for, and the expected 15.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and pattern of usage of, the assets.
When reviewing residual values, the Group intangible assets estimates the amount that it would currently obtain for the disposal of the At each balance sheet date, or more frequently where events or changes asset after deducting the estimated cost of disposal if the asset were in circumstances dictate, property, plant and equipment and intangible already of the age and condition expected at the end of its useful assets, are assessed for indications of impairment.
If indications are economic life.
present, these assets are subject to an impairment review.
Goodwill is No depreciation is provided on freehold land, although, in common subject to an impairment review as at the balance sheet date each year.
with all long-lived assets, it is subject to impairment testing, if deemed The impairment review comprises a comparison of the carrying amount appropriate.
of the asset with its recoverable amount: the higher of the assets or the Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the cash-generating units net selling price and its value in use.
Net selling proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised in the income price is calculated by reference to the amount at which the asset could statement.
be disposed of in a binding sale agreement in an arms length transaction evidenced by an active market or recent transactions for similar assets.
Intangible assets Value in use is calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows Goodwill obtainable as a result of the assets continued use, including those Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiary and associated entities resulting from its ultimate disposal, at a market-based discount rate on and joint ventures, and represents the excess of the fair value of the a pre-tax basis.
purchase consideration and direct costs of making the acquisition, over The carrying values of fixed assets and goodwill are written down by the fair value of the Groups share of the assets acquired, and the liabilities the amount of any impairment and this loss is recognised in the income and contingent liabilities assumed on the date of the acquisition.
statement in the period in which it occurs.
A previously recognised For the purpose of calculating goodwill, fair values of acquired assets, impairment loss relating to a fixed asset may be reversed in part or in full liabilities and contingent liabilities are determined by reference to market when a change in circumstances leads to a change in the estimates used values or by discounting expected future cash flows to present value.
This to determine the fixed assets recoverable amount.
The carrying amount of discounting is either performed using market rates or by using risk-free the fixed asset will only be increased up to the amount that it would have rates and risk-adjusted expected future cash flows.
Goodwill is capitalised been had the original impairment not been recognised.
Impairment losses and reviewed annually for impairment, or more frequently when there are on goodwill are not reversed.
For the purpose of conducting impairment indications that impairment may have occurred.
Goodwill is allocated to reviews, cash-generating units are the lowest level at which management cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill on monitors the return on investment on assets.
acquisitions of associates and joint ventures is included in the amount of the investment.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the 16.
Financial guarantees carrying amount of the goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Financial guarantee contracts are contracts that require the issuer to make The carrying amount of goodwill in the UK GAAP balance sheet as at specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a 31st December 2003 has been brought forward without adjustment on specified debtor fails to make payments when due in accordance with the transition to IFRSs.
Financial guarantees are initially recognised in the financial Computer software statements at fair value on the date that the guarantee was given.
Computer software is stated at cost, less amortisation and provisions for Other than where the fair value option is applied, subsequent to initial impairment, if any.
recognition, the banks liabilities under such guarantees are measured at The identifiable and directly associated external and internal costs of the higher of the initial measurement, less amortisation calculated to acquiring and developing software are capitalised where the software is recognise in the income statement any fee income earned over the period, controlled by the Group, and where it is probable that future economic and any financial obligation arising as a result of the guarantees at the benefits that exceed its cost will flow from its use over more than one year.
balance sheet date, in accordance with policy 23.
Costs associated with maintaining software are recognised as an expense Any increase in the liability relating to guarantees is taken to the when incurred.
income statement in Provisions for undrawn contractually committed Capitalised computer software is amortised over three to five years.
Any liability remaining is recognised in the income statement when the guarantee is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Note a Where leasehold property has a remaining useful life of less than 15 years, costs of adaptation and installed equipment are depreciated over the remaining life of the lease.
| 198 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 191-203. qxp:B File 13 6 3 09 01:31 Page 199 17.
Issued debt and equity securities Long-term insurance contracts Issued financial instruments or their components are classified as liabilities These contracts, insure events associated with human life for example, where the contractual arrangement results in the Group having a present death or survival over a long duration.
Premiums are recognised as obligation to either deliver cash or another financial asset to the holder, to revenue when they become payable by the contract holder.
Claims and exchange financial instruments on terms that are potentially unfavourable surrenders are accounted for when notified.
Maturities on the policy or to satisfy the obligation otherwise than by the exchange of a fixed maturity date and regular withdrawals are accounted for when due.
amount of cash or another financial asset for a fixed number of equity A liability for contractual benefits that are expected to be incurred in shares.
Issued financial instruments, or their components, are classified as the future is recorded when the premiums are recognised, based on the equity where they meet the definition of equity and confer on the holder a expected discounted value of the benefit payments and directly related residual interest in the assets of the Company.
The components of issued administration costs, less the expected discounted value of the future financial instruments that contain both liability and equity elements are premiums that would be required to meet the benefits and other expenses.
accounted for separately with the equity component being assigned the The calculation of the liability contains assumptions regarding mortality, residual amount after deducting from the instrument as a whole the maintenance expenses and investment income.
amount separately determined as the fair value of the liability component.
Liabilities under unit-linked life insurance contracts such as Financial liabilities, other than trading liabilities and financial liabilities endowment policies in addition reflect the value of assets held within unitised investment pools.
designated at fair value, are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method as set out in policy 6.
Derivatives embedded in financial Short-term insurance contracts liabilities that are not designated at fair value are accounted for as set out Under its payment protection insurance products the Group is committed in policy 7.
Equity instruments, including share capital, are initially recognised to paying benefits to the policyholder rather than forgiving interest or at net proceeds, after deducting transaction costs and any related income principal on the occurrence of an insured event, such as unemployment, tax.
Dividend and other payments to equity holders are deducted from sickness, or injury.
Property insurance contracts mainly compensate the equity, net of any related tax.
policyholders for damage to their property or for the value of property lost.
Share capital Premiums are recognised as revenue proportionally over the period of Share issue costs the coverage.
Claims and claims handling costs are charged to income as Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or incurred, based on the estimated liability for compensation owed to options including those issued on the acquisition of a business are shown policyholders arising from events that have occurred up to the balance in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
sheet date even if they have not yet been reported to the Group, based on assessments of individual cases reported to the Group and statistical Dividends on ordinary shares analyses for the claims incurred but not reported.
Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in the period in which they are paid or, if earlier, approved by the Barclays PLC Deferred acquisition costs DAC Commissions and other costs that are related to securing new insurance the Company shareholders.
and investment contracts are capitalised and amortised over the estimated Treasury shares lives of the relevant contracts.
Where the Company or any member of the Group purchases the Companys share capital, the consideration paid is deducted from shareholders Deferred income liability equity as treasury shares until they are cancelled.
Where such shares are Fees that are designed to recover commissions and other costs related subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in to either securing new insurance and investment contracts or renewing shareholders equity.
existing investment contracts are included as a liability and amortised over the estimated life of the contract.
Insurance contracts and investment contracts The Group offers wealth management, term assurance, annuity, Value of business acquired On acquisition of a portfolio of contracts, such as through the acquisition property and payment protection insurance products to customers that take the form of longand short-term insurance contracts.
of a subsidiary, the Group recognises an intangible asset representing the value of business acquired VOBA, representing the future profits The Group classifies its wealth management and other products as insurance contracts where these transfer significant insurance risk, embedded in acquired insurance contracts and investment contracts with a discretionary participation feature.
The asset is amortised over generally where the benefits payable on the occurrence of an insured event are at least 5% more than the benefits that would be payable if the remaining terms of the acquired contracts.
the insured event does not occur.
Liability adequacy test Contracts that do not contain significant insurance risk or Liability adequacy tests are performed at each balance sheet date to discretionary participation features are classified as investment contracts.
ensure the adequacy of contract liabilities net of DAC and VOBA assets.
Financial assets and liabilities relating to investment contracts, and assets Current best estimates of future contractual cash flows, claims handling backing insurance contracts are classified and measured as appropriate and administration costs, and investment returns from the assets backing under IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
the liabilities are taken into account in the tests.
Where a deficiency is highlighted by the test, DAC and VOBA assets are written off first, and insurance liabilities increased when these are written off in full.
Any deficiency is immediately recognised in the income statement.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 199 C14170 Barclays B 191-203. qxp:B File 13 6 3 09 01:31 Page 200 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies Reinsurance The Group also provides health care to certain retired employees, which are accrued as a liability in the financial statements over the period Shortand long-term insurance business is ceded to reinsurers under contracts to transfer part or all of one or more of the following risks: of employment, using a methodology similar to that for defined benefit pensions plans.
All such contracts are dealt with as insurance contracts.
The benefits to which the Group is entitled under its Short-term employee benefits, such as salaries, paid absences, and other benefits, are accounted for on an accruals basis over the period reinsurance contracts are recognised as reinsurance assets.
The Group assesses reinsurance assets at each balance sheet date.
If there which employees have provided services in the year.
Bonuses are recognised to the extent that the Group has a present obligation to its is objective evidence of impairment, the carrying amount of the reinsurance asset is reduced accordingly resulting in a charge to the employees that can be measured reliably.
All expenses related to employee benefits are recognised in the income statement.
income statement in staff costs, which is included within operating 20.
Lessor Assets leased to customers under agreements, which transfer 22.
Share-based payments to employees substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, with or without The Group engages in equity settled share-based payment transactions ultimate legal title, are classified as finance leases.
When assets are in respect of services received from certain of its employees.
The fair value held subject to a finance lease, the present value of the lease payments, of the services received is measured by reference to the fair value of the discounted at the rate of interest implicit in the lease, is recognised shares or share options granted on the date of the grant.
The cost of the as a receivable.
The difference between the total payments receivable employee services received in respect of the shares or share options under the lease and the present value of the receivable is recognised as granted is recognised in the income statement over the period that the unearned finance income, which is allocated to accounting periods services are received, which is the vesting period.
The fair value of the under the pre-tax net investment method to reflect a constant periodic options granted is determined using option pricing models, which take rate of return.
into account the exercise price of the option, the current share price, the Assets leased to customers under agreements which do not transfer risk free interest rate, the expected volatility of the share price over the life substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as of the option and other relevant factors.
Except for those which include operating leases.
The leased assets are included within property, plant terms related to market conditions, vesting conditions included in the and equipment on the Groups balance sheet and depreciation is provided terms of the grant are not taken into account in estimating fair value.
on the depreciable amount of these assets on a systematic basis over Non-market vesting conditions are taken into account by adjusting the their estimated useful lives.
Lease income is recognised on a straight-line number of shares or share options included in the measurement of the basis over the period of the lease unless another systematic basis is cost of employee services so that ultimately, the amount recognised in more appropriate.
the income statement reflects the number of vested shares or share options.
Where vesting conditions are related to market conditions, the Lessee charges for the services received are recognised regardless of whether The leases entered into by the Group are primarily operating leases.
or not the market related vesting condition is met, provided that the Operating lease rentals payable are recognised as an expense in the non-market vesting conditions are met.
income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term unless 23.
Provisions another systematic basis is more appropriate.
Provisions are recognised for present obligations arising as consequences 21.
Employee benefits of past events where it is more likely than not that a transfer of economic The Group provides employees worldwide with post-retirement benefits benefit will be necessary to settle the obligation, and it can be reliably mainly in the form of pensions.
The Group operates a number of pension estimated.
schemes which may be funded or unfunded and of a defined contribution When a leasehold property ceases to be used in the business or or defined benefit nature.
In addition, the Group contributes, according to a demonstrable commitment has been made to cease to use a property local law in the various countries in which it operates, to Governmental and where the costs exceed the benefits of the property, provision is made, other plans which have the characteristics of defined contribution plans.
where the unavoidable costs of the future obligations relating to the lease For defined benefit schemes, actuarial valuation of each of the are expected to exceed anticipated rental income and other benefits.
schemes obligations using the projected unit credit method and the fair The net costs are discounted using market rates of interest to reflect the valuation of each of the schemes assets are performed annually, using the long-term nature of the cash flows.
assumptions set out in Note 30.
The difference between the fair value of Provision is made for the anticipated cost of restructuring, including the plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation at redundancy costs when an obligation exists.
An obligation exists when the the balance sheet date, adjusted for any historic unrecognised actuarial Group has a detailed formal plan for restructuring a business and has gains or losses and past service cost, is recognised as a liability in the raised valid expectations in those affected by the restructuring by starting balance sheet.
An asset, arising for example, as a result of past over to implement the plan or announcing its main features.
The provision funding or the performance of the plan investments, is recognised to the raised is normally utilised within nine months.
extent that it does not exceed the present value of future contribution Provision is made for undrawn loan commitments and similar facilities holidays or refunds of contributions.
if it is probable that the facility will be drawn and result in the recognition of Cumulative actuarial gains and losses in excess of the greater of 10% an asset at an amount less than the amount advanced.
of the assets or 10% of the obligations of the plan are recognised in the Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be income statement over the remaining average service lives of the confirmed only by uncertain future events or present obligations where employees of the related plan, on a straight-line basis.
the transfer of economic benefit is uncertain or cannot be reliably For defined contribution schemes, the Group recognises measured.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised but are disclosed contributions due in respect of the accounting period in the income unless they are remote.
Any contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as a liability.
| 200 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 191-203. qxp:B File 13 6 3 09 01:31 Page 201 24.
Taxes, including deferred taxes Income tax payable on taxable profits current tax, is recognised as an expense in the period in which the profits arise.
Income tax recoverable on tax allowable losses is recognised as an asset only to the extent that it is regarded as recoverable by offset against current or future taxable profits.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising from the differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and legislation enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and is expected to apply when the deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred and current tax assets and liabilities are only offset when they arise in the same tax reporting group and where there is both the legal right and the intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee, which is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the chief operating decision maker.
All transactions between business segments are conducted on an arms length basis, with intra-segment revenue and costs being eliminated in Head office.
Income and expenses directly associated with each segment are included in determining business segment performance.
Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits, and cash equivalents comprise highly liquid investments that are convertible into cash with an insignificant risk of changes in value with original maturities of less than three months.
Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements are not considered to be part of cash equivalents.
Trust activities The Group commonly acts as trustees and in other fiduciary capacities that result in the holding or placing of assets on behalf of individuals, trusts, retirement benefit plans and other institutions.
These assets and income arising thereon are excluded from these financial statements, as they are 3 not assets of the Group.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 201 C14170 Barclays B 191-203. qxp:B File 13 6 3 09 01:31 Page 202 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting developments Changes in accounting policy IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements is a revised standard applicable to annual periods beginning on 1st January 2009.
The The adoption of IFRSs and IFRICs in 2008 has resulted in no significant changes to the accounting policies except: amendments affect the presentation of owner changes in equity and of comprehensive income.
They do not change the recognition, a IFRS 8 Operating Segments has been adopted as at 1st January measurement or disclosure of specific transactions and events required 2008.
IFRS 8 was issued in November 2006 and excluding early by other standards.
adoption would first be required to be applied to the Groups accounting period beginning on 1st January 2009.
The standard An amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment was issued in January replaces IAS 14 Segmental Reporting and aligns operating segmental 2008 that clarifies that vesting conditions are service conditions and reporting with segments reported to senior management as well as performance conditions only.
It also specifies that all cancellations, requiring amendments and additions to the existing segmental whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the same reporting disclosures as set out in Note 53.
The standard does not accounting treatment, which results in the acceleration of charge.
The change the recognition, measurement or disclosure of specific Group is considering the implications of the amendment, particularly to transactions in the consolidated financial statements.
the Sharesave scheme, and any resulting change in accounting policy would be accounted for in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting policies, b Certain financial assets originally classified as held for trading have changes in accounting estimates and errors in 2009. been reclassified to loans and receivables on 16th December 2008 as set out in Note 51 on page 292.
Following the amendment to IAS 39 in Amendments to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial October 2008, a non-derivative financial asset held for trading may be transferred out of the fair value through profit or loss category after Statements Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate were issued in May 2008.
The amendment to 1st July 2008 where: IFRS 1 has no impact on Barclays.
The amendment to IAS 27 results in In rare circumstances, it is no longer held for the purpose of selling or dividends received from subsidiaries being treated as income in the repurchasing in the near term: or individual financial statements of the parent, whether paid from pre or post acquisition profits, and could affect the cost of investment in It is no longer held for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term, it would have met the definition of a loan and receivable on initial subsidiaries in certain group reconstructions.
The amendments, which first apply to annual periods beginning on or after 1st January 2009, are classification and the Group has the intention and ability to hold it for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
not expected to affect group accounting policies.
Future accounting developments IAS 23 Borrowing Costs is a revised standard applicable to annual Consideration will be given during 2009 to the implications, if any, of the periods beginning on 1st January 2009.
The revision does not impact following new and revised standards and International Financial Reporting Barclays.
The revision removes the option to not capitalise borrowing Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations, as follows: costs on qualifying assets, which are assets that take a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended use or sale.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IAS 27 Consolidated and Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Separate Financial Statements are revised standards issued in January 2008.
The revised IFRS 3 applies prospectively to business Presentation of Financial Statements were issued in February 2008 that require some puttable instruments and some financial instruments that combinations first accounted for in accounting periods beginning on or after 1st July 2009 and the amendments to IAS 27 apply retrospectively impose on the entity and obligation to deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of the entity only on liquidation to be classified to periods beginning on or after 1st July 2009.
The main changes in existing practice resulting from the revision to IFRS 3 affect acquisitions as equity.
The amendments, which are applicable to annual periods beginning on 1st January 2009, are not expected to have a material that are achieved in stages and acquisitions where less than 100% of the equity is acquired.
In addition, acquisition related costs such as impact on Barclays.
fees paid to advisers must be accounted for separately from the Eligible Hedged Items an amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: business combination, which means that they will be recognised as Recognition and Measurement was issued in July 2008 and applies expenses unless they are directly connected with the issue of debt or retrospectively for annual periods beginning on or after 1st July 2009. equity securities.
The revisions to IAS 27 specify that changes in a The amendment provides additional guidance where hedge accounting parents ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in the loss is to be obtained for a one sided risk in a hedged item or for inflation in a of control must be accounted for as equity transactions.
Until future financial hedged item.
No changes to accounting policies are expected acquisitions take place that are accounted for in accordance with the as a result of the amendment.
revised IFRS 3, the main impact on Barclays will be that, from 2010, gains and losses on transactions with non-controlling interests that do Improvements to IFRS was issued in May 2008 and contains not result in loss of control will no longer be recognised in the income numerous amendments to IFRS which the IASB consider non-urgent statement but directly in equity.
In 2008, gains of 8m and losses of but necessary.
No changes to accounting policies are expected as a 2m were recognised in income relating to such transactions.
| 202 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 191-203. qxp:B File 13 6 3 09 01:31 Page 203 The following IFRIC interpretations issued during 2007 or 2008 which On 18th May 2007, Barclays completed the acquisition of Walbrook first apply to accounting periods beginning on or after 1st January 2009 are Group Limited.
Walbrook is based in Jersey, Guernsey, Isle of Man not expected to result in any changes to the Groups accounting policies: and Hong Kong where it serves high net worth private clients and corporate customers.
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programs: 2006 IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate: On 1st November 2006, Barclays Bank PLC acquired the US mortgage IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation: and servicing business of HomEq Servicing Corporation from Wachovia Corporation.
IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-cash assets to owners.
Disposals IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from Customers, was issued in January 2008 2009 and applies prospectively to transfers of assets from customers On 31st October 2008 Barclays completed the sale of Barclays Life received on or after 1st July 2009.
This interpretation is not expected Assurance Company Ltd to Swiss Reinsurance Company.
to result in any changes to the Groups accounting policies.
2007 Acquisitions On 4th April 2007, Barclays completed the sale of part of Monument, 2008 a credit card business.
On 31st March 2008, Barclays completed the acquisition of Discover On 24th September 2007, Barclays completed the sale of a 50% Financial Services UK credit card business, Goldfish.
Discover Financial shareholding in Intelenet Global Services Pvt Ltd. Services is a leading credit card issuer and electronic payment services company.
2006 On 1st July 2008, Barclays acquired 100% of the ordinary shares On 1st January 2006, Barclays completed the sale of the Barclays South of Expobank.
Expobank is based in Moscow and its main products and African branch business to Absa Group Limited.
This consists of the services are issuance and servicing of debit and credit cards, mortgages Barclays Capital South African operations and Corporate and Business and loans, currency transactions, internet-banking: retail discount cards Banking activities previously carried out by the South African branch and other services.
of Global Retail and Commercial Banking, together with the associated On 22nd September 2008, Barclays completed the acquisition of assets and liabilities.
Lehman Brothers North American businesses.
The Lehman Brothers On 25th July 2006, Barclays Asset & Sales Finance BASF disposed North American businesses include Lehman Brothers North American of its interest in its motor vehicle contract hire business, Appleyard Finance fixed income and equities sales, trading and research and investment Holdings Limited.
banking businesses, Lehman Brothers New York Head Office at 745 On 31st August 2006, Barclays disposed of Bankhaus Wolbern which Seventh Avenue and two data centres in New Jersey.
was formerly part of Absa.
On 6th November 2008, Barclays purchased the Italian residential On 22nd December 2006 Barclays disposed of its interest in mortgage business of Macquarie Bank Limited.
The acquired business FirstCaribbean International Bank to Canadian Imperial Bank of includes a mortgage portfolio with a total outstanding balance of Commerce.
approximately 1.1 billion, as well as Macquaries operational support On 31st December 2006, BA&SF disposed of its European Vendor functions, including staff.
Finance business, including Barclays Industrie Bank GmbH and Barclays Technology Finance Ltd, to CIT Group.
2007 On 8th February 2007, Barclays completed the acquisition of Indexchange Recent developments Investment AG.
Indexchange is based in Munich and offers exchange On 2nd February 2009, Barclays completed the acquisition of PT Bank 3 traded fund products.
Akita, which was announced initially on 17th September 2008, following On 28th February 2007, Barclays completed the acquisition of the approval of the Central Bank of Indonesia.
Nile Bank is based in Uganda with 18 branches On 17th February 2009, Barclays announced that Barclays Capital and 228 employees.
will discontinue operations at its Equifirst subsidiary due to the market On 30th March 2007, Barclays completed the acquisition of EquiFirst.
environment and strategic direction of the Group.
EquiFirst is a non-prime wholesale mortgage originator in the United States.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 203 C14170 Barclays B 204-209. qxp:B File 14 6 3 09 01:32 Page 204 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Consolidated income statement For the year ended 31st December 2008 2007 2006 Notes m m m Continuing operations Interest income 2 28,010 25,308 21,805 Interest expense 2 16,541 15,698 12,662 Net interest income 11,469 9,610 9,143 Fee and commission income 3 9,489 8,678 8,005 Fee and commission expense 3 1,082 970 828 Net fee and commission income 8,407 7,708 7,177 Net trading income 4 1,329 3,759 3,614 Net investment income 4 680 1,216 962 Principal transactions 2,009 4,975 4,576 Net premiums from insurance contracts 5 1,090 1,011 1,060 Other income 6 377 188 214 Total income 23,352 23,492 22,170 Net claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts 5 237 492 575 Total income net of insurance claims 23,115 23,000 21,595 Impairment charges and other credit provisions 7 5,419 2,795 2,154 Net income 17,696 20,205 19,441 Staff costs 8 7,779 8,405 8,169 Administration and general expenses 9 5,666 4,141 3,914 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 23 630 467 455 Amortisation of intangible assets 22 291 186 136 Operating expenses 14,366 13,199 12,674 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 20 14 42 46 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 38 327 28 323 Gains on acquisitions 39 2,406 Profit before tax 6,077 7,076 7,136 Tax 10 790 1,981 1,941 Profit after tax 5,287 5,095 5,195 Profit attributable to minority interests 33 905 678 624 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 4,382 4,417 4,571 5,287 5,095 5,195 p pp Earnings per share Basic earnings per share 11 59.3 68.9 71.9 Diluted earnings per share 11 57.5 66.7 69.8 Interim dividend per ordinary share 11.5 11.50 10.50 Proposed final dividend per ordinary share 1 22.50 20.50 m m m Interim dividend paid 906 768 666 Proposed final dividend 1 1,485 1,307 The Board of Directors approved the accounts set out on pages 193 to 298 on 5th March 2009.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Consolidated accounts.
| 204 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 204-209. qxp:B File 14 6 3 09 01:32 Page 205 Consolidated balance sheet As at 31st December 2008 2007 Notes m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 30,019 5,801 Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,695 1,836 Trading portfolio assets 12 185,637 193,691 Financial assets designated at fair value: held on own account 13 54,542 56,629 held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 13 66,657 90,851 Derivative financial instruments 14 984,802 248,088 Loans and advances to banks 15 47,707 40,120 Loans and advances to customers 15 461,815 345,398 Available for sale financial investments 16 64,976 43,072 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 17 130,354 183,075 Other assets 18 6,302 5,150 Current tax assets 389 518 Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 341 377 Goodwill 21 7,625 7,014 Intangible assets 22 2,777 1,282 Property, plant and equipment 23 4,674 2,996 Deferred tax assets 19 2,668 1,463 Total assets 2,052,980 1,227,361 Liabilities Deposits from banks 114,910 90,546 Items in the course of collection due to other banks 1,635 1,792 Customer accounts 335,505 294,987 Trading portfolio liabilities 12 59,474 65,402 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 24 76,892 74,489 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 13 69,183 92,639 Derivative financial instruments 14 968,072 248,288 Debt securities in issue 149,567 120,228 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 17 182,285 169,429 Other liabilities 25 12,640 10,499 Current tax liabilities 1,216 1,311 Insurance contract liabilities, including unit-linked liabilities 26 2,152 3,903 Subordinated liabilities 27 29,842 18,150 3 Deferred tax liabilities 19 304 855 Provisions 28 535 830 Retirement benefit liabilities 30 1,357 1,537 Total liabilities 2,005,569 1,194,885 Shareholders equity Called up share capital 31 2,093 1,651 Share premium account 31 4,045 56 Other equity 31 3,652 Other reserves 32 2,793 874 Retained earnings 32 24,208 20,970 Less: treasury shares 32 173 260 Shareholders equity excluding minority interests 36,618 23,291 Minority interests 33 10,793 9,185 Total shareholders equity 47,411 32,476 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 2,052,980 1,227,361 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Consolidated accounts.
Marcus Agius Group Chairman John Varley Group Chief Executive Christopher Lucas Group Finance Director B Ba ar rc clla ay ys s P PL LC C A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 08 8 2 20 05 5 C14170 Barclays B 204-209. qxp:B File 14 6 3 09 01:32 Page 206 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense For the year ended 31st December 2008 2007 2006 m m m Available for sale reserve: Net losses gains from changes in fair value 1,741 484 87 Losses transferred to net profit due to impairment 382 13 86 Net gains transferred to net profit on disposal 209 563 327 Net gains losses transferred to net profit due to fair value hedging 2 68 14 Cash flow hedging reserve: Net gains losses from changes in fair value 305 106 437 Net losses gains transferred to net profit 71 253 50 Currency translation differences 2,407 54 781 Tax 841 54 253 Other 5 22 25 Amounts included directly in equity 2,049 491 1,130 Profit after tax 5,287 5,095 5,195 Total recognised income and expense for the year 7,336 5,586 4,065 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 6,213 4,854 3,682 Minority interests 1,123 732 383 7,336 5,586 4, 065 || 2 20 06 6 B Ba ar rc clla ay ys s P PL LC C A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 08 8 F Fiin nd d o ou ut t m mo or re e a at t w ww ww w.. b ba ar rc clla ay ys s.. c co om m a an nn nu ua allr re ep po or rt t08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 204-209. qxp:B File 14 6 3 09 01:32 Page 207 Consolidated cash flow statement For the year ended 31st December 2008 2007 2006 m m m Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities: Profit before tax 6,077 7,076 7,136 Adjustment for non-cash items: Allowance for impairment 5,419 2,795 2,154 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant, equipment and intangibles 951 669 612 Other provisions, including pensions 804 753 558 Net profit from associates and joint ventures 14 42 46 Net profit on disposal of investments and property, plant and equipment 371 862 778 Net profit from disposal of associates and joint ventures 26 263 Net profit from disposal of subsidiaries 327 2 60 Net gains on acquisitions 2,406 Other non-cash movements 796 1,133 1,702 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Net increase in loans and advances to banks and customers 58,431 77,987 27,385 Net increase in deposits and debt securities in issue 77,743 90,589 46,944 Net increase decrease in derivative financial instruments 17,529 2,144 1,196 Net decrease increase in trading portfolio assets 26,919 18,227 18,323 Net decrease increase in trading liabilities 5,928 6,472 310 Net decrease increase in financial investments 5,229 4,379 1,538 Net increase decrease in other assets 3,008 1,299 1,527 Net decrease in other liabilities 477 1,071 1,580 Tax paid 1,731 1,583 2,141 Net cash from operating activities 33,716 10,747 10,047 Purchase of available for sale financial investments 57,756 26,899 47,086 Proceeds from sale or redemption of available for sale financial investments 51,429 38,423 46,069 Purchase of intangible assets 687 263 212 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 1,720 1,241 654 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 799 617 786 Acquisitions of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 961 270 248 Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 238 383 15 Increase in investment in subsidiaries 157 668 432 Decrease in investment in subsidiaries 19 57 44 Acquisition of associates and joint ventures 96 220 162 Disposal of associates and joint ventures 137 145 739 Other cash flows associated with investing activities 17 3 Net cash from investing activities 8,755 10,064 1,154 Dividends paid 3,047 2,559 2,215 Proceeds of borrowings and issuance of debt securities 5,763 4,625 2,493 Repayments of borrowings and redemption of debt securities 1,207 683 366 Net issue of shares and other equity instruments 9,493 2,494 179 Repurchase of shares and other equity instruments 173 1,802 Net disposal purchase of treasury shares 87 48 31 Net issue of shares to minority interests 1,356 1,331 632 Net cash from financing activities 12,272 3,358 692 Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 5,801 550 562 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 31,432 2,125 10,147 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 33,077 30,952 20,805 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 64,509 33,077 30,952 Cash and cash equivalents comprise: Cash and balances at central banks 30,019 5,801 7,345 Loans and advances to banks 47,707 40,120 30,926 Less: non-cash amounts and amounts with original maturity greater than three months 15,428 19,377 15,892 32,279 20,743 15,034 Available for sale treasury and other eligible bills 64,976 43,072 51,703 Less: non-cash and amounts with original maturity greater than three months 62,876 41,688 50,684 2,100 1,384 1,019 Trading portfolio assets 185,637 193,691 177,867 Less: non-cash and amounts with original maturity greater than three months 185,526 188,556 170,329 111 5,135 7,538 Other 14 16 64,509 33,077 30,952 Interest received in 2008 was 41,017m 2007: 49,441m, 2006: 38,544m and interest paid in 2008 was 38,975m 2007: 37,821m, 2006: 29,372m.
The Group is required to maintain balances with central banks and other regulatory authorities and these amounted to 1,050m at 31st December 2008 2007: 1,037m.
B Ba ar rc clla ay ys s P PL LC C A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 08 8 2 20 07 7 C14170 Barclays B 204-209. qxp:B File 14 6 3 09 01:32 Page 208 Accounts of Barclays PLC Parent company accounts Income statement For the year ended 31st December 2008 2007 2006 m m m Dividends received from subsidiary 1,173 3,287 1,964 Interest income 7 44 Trading gain loss 18 13 Other income 15 Management charge from subsidiary 4 4 4 Profit before tax 1,194 3,289 1,964 Tax 1 Profit after tax 1,193 3,289 1,964 The Company had no staff during the year 2007: nil, 2006: nil.
Balance sheet As at 31st December 2008 2007 Notes m m Assets Non-current assets Investment in subsidiaries 40 15,340 10,391 Current assets Cash and balances at central banks 671 Other assets 3,851 20 Total assets 19,191 11,082 Liabilities Current liabilities Amounts payable within one year 1 1 Shareholders equity Called up share capital 31 2,093 1,651 Share premium account 31 4,045 56 Other equity 31 3,652 Capital redemption reserve 32 394 384 Retained earnings 32 9,006 8,990 Total shareholders equity 19,190 11,081 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 19,191 11,082 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the accounts.
Marcus Agius Group Chairman John Varley Group Chief Executive Christopher Lucas Group Finance Director || 2 20 08 8 B Ba ar rc clla ay ys s P PL LC C A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 08 8 F Fiin nd d o ou ut t m mo or re e a at t w ww ww w.. b ba ar rc clla ay ys s.. c co om m a an nn nu ua allr re ep po or rt t08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 204-209. qxp:B File 14 6 3 09 01:32 Page 209 Statement of recognised income and expense For the year ended 31st December 2008 2007 2006 m m m Profit after tax 1,193 3,289 1,964 Total recognised income and expense for the year 1,193 3,289 1,964 Cash flow statement For the year ended 31st December 2008 2007 2006 m m m Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities: Profit before tax 1,194 3,289 1,964 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Net increase in other assets 16 3 13 Net decrease in other liabilities 3 Net cash from operating activities 1,178 3,283 1,951 Capital contribution to subsidiaries 4,362 1,434 Purchase of shares in subsidiaries 16 316 179 Liquidation of subsidiary 205 Net cash used in investing activities 4,173 1,750 179 Issue of shares and other equity instruments 4,911 2,494 179 Dividends paid 2,414 2,129 1,814 Repurchase of ordinary shares 173 1,802 Net cash from financing activities 2,324 1,437 1,635 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 671 96 137 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 671 575 438 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 671 575 Cash and cash equivalents comprise: Cash and balances at central banks 671 575 3 Net cash from operating activities includes: Dividends received 1,173 3,287 1,964 Interest received 7 44 The parent companys main activity is to hold the investment in its wholly-owned subsidiary, Barclays Bank PLC.
The Company was not exposed at 31st December 2008 or 2007 to significant risks arising from the financial instruments it holds: which comprised cash, balances with central banks, and other assets which had no credit or market risk.
Dividends received are treated as operating income.
Non-cash transactions During the year Barclays Bank PLC issued 4,050m of Mandatorily Convertible Notes, which mandatorily convert into ordinary shares of Barclays PLC on or before 30th June 2009.
Barclays PLC has the right to receive the Notes in the future: the fair value of which has been included in other assets, with a corresponding increase net of issue costs in other equity.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the accounts.
B Ba ar rc clla ay ys s P PL LC C A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 08 8 2 20 09 9 C14170 Barclays B 210-225. qxp:B File 15 6 3 09 01:32 Page 210 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 1 Dividends per share As announced on 13th October 2008, the Board of Barclays has concluded that it would not be appropriate to recommend the payment of a final dividend for 2008.
The final dividend for 2007 of 1,485m is accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained profits in the year ending 31st December 2008.
Other interest income principally includes interest income relating to reverse repurchase agreements.
Similarly, other interest expense principally includes interest expense relating to repurchase agreements and hedging activity.
Included in net interest income is hedge ineffectiveness as detailed in Note 14.
3 Net fee and commission income 2008 2007 2006 m m m Fee and commission income Brokerage fees 87 109 70 Investment management fees 1,616 1,787 1,535 Securities lending 389 241 185 Banking and credit related fees and commissions 7,208 6,363 6,031 Foreign exchange commissions 189 178 184 Fee and commission income 9,489 8,678 8,005 Fee and commission expense 1,082 970 828 Net fee and commission income 8,407 7,708 7,177 | 210 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 210-225. qxp:B File 15 6 3 09 01:32 Page 211 4 Principal transactions 2008 2007 2006 m m m Rates related business 4,751 4,162 2,848 Credit related business 3,422 403 766 Net trading income 1,329 3,759 3,614 Net gain from disposal of available for sale assets 212 560 307 Dividend income 196 26 15 Net gain from financial instruments designated at fair value 33 293 447 Other investment income 239 337 193 Net investment income 680 1,216 962 Principal transactions 2,009 4,975 4,576 Net trading income includes the profits and losses arising both on the purchase and sale of trading instruments and from the revaluation to fair value, together with the interest income earned from these instruments and the related funding cost.
Of the total net trading income, a 2,096m net loss 2007: 116m loss, 2006: 1,427m gain was made on the purchase and sale of securities and the revaluation of both securities and derivatives.
This included a 1,272m gain 2007: 640m, 2006: 480m that was earned in foreign exchange dealings.
The net loss on financial assets designated at fair value included within principal transactions was 6,602m 2007: 78m gain, 2006: 489m gain of which losses of 6,635m 2007: 215m loss, 2006: 42m gain were included in net trading income and gains of 33m 2007: 293m, 2006: 447m were included in net investment income.
The net gain on financial liabilities designated at fair value included within principal transactions was 3,328m 2007: 231m loss, 2006: 920m loss all of which was included within net trading income.
Net trading income includes the net gain from widening of credit spreads relating to Barclays Capital issued structured notes held at fair value was 1,663m 2007: 658m, 2006: nil.
5 Insurance premiums and insurance claims and benefits 2008 2007 2006 m m m Gross premiums from insurance contracts 1,138 1,062 1,108 Premiums ceded to reinsurers 48 51 48 3 Net premiums from insurance contracts 1,090 1,011 1,060 2008 2007 2006 m m m Gross claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts 263 520 588 Reinsurers share of claims incurred 26 28 13 Net claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts 237 492 575 6 Other income 2008 2007 2006 m m m Decrease increase in fair value of assets held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 10,422 5,592 7,417 Decrease increase in liabilities to customers under investment contracts 10,422 5,592 7,417 Property rentals 73 53 55 Other income 304 135 159 Other income 377 188 214 Included in other income are sub-lease rentals of 18m 2007: 18m, 2006: 18m, and in 2008 only is a 47m gain from the Visa IPO.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 211 C14170 Barclays B 210-225. qxp:B File 15 6 3 09 01:32 Page 212 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 7 Impairment charges and other credit provisions 2008 2007 2006 m m m Impairment charges on loans and advances New and increased impairment allowances 5,116 2,871 2,722 Releases 358 338 389 Recoveries 174 227 259 Impairment charges on loans and advances 4,584 2,306 2,074 Charge release in respect of provision for undrawn contractually committed facilities and guarantees provided 329 476 6 Impairment charges on loans and advances and other credit provisions 4,913 2,782 2,068 Impairment charges on reverse repurchase agreements 124 Impairment on available for sale assets 382 13 86 Impairment charges and other credit provisions 5,419 2,795 2,154 An analysis of the impairment charges by class of financial instrument is included in Note 47.
8 Staff costs 2008 2007 2006 m m m Salaries and accrued incentive payments 6,273 6,993 6,635 Social security costs 464 508 502 Pension costs defined contribution plans 237 141 128 Pension costs defined benefit plans Note 30 89 150 282 Other post-retirement benefits Note 30 1 10 30 Other 715 603 592 Staff costs 7,779 8,405 8,169 Included in salaries and incentive payments is 257m 2007: 551m, 2006: 640m arising from equity settled share-based payments, of which 23m 2007: 60m, 2006: 78m is a charge related to options-based schemes.
Also included is 3m 2007: 8m, 2006: 6m arising from cash settled sharebased payments.
The average number of persons employed by the Group worldwide during the year was 151,500 2007: 128,900, 2006: 118,600.
9 Administration and general expenses 2008 2007 2006 m m m Administrative expenses 5,153 3,978 3,980 Impairment charges releases property and equipment Note 23 33 2 14 intangible assets Note 22 3 14 7 goodwill Note 21 111 Operating lease rentals 520 414 345 Gain on property disposals 148 267 432 Administration and general expenses 5,666 4,141 3,914 Auditors remuneration 2008 Audit Taxation Other Audit related services services Total m m m m m Audit of the Groups annual accounts 12 12 Other services: Fees payable for the audit of the Companys associates pursuant to legislation 20 20 Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation 2 2 Other services relating to taxation 10 10 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates 3 3 Other 4 15 Total auditors remuneration 32 6 10 4 52 | 212 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 210-225. qxp:B File 15 6 3 09 01:32 Page 213 9 Administration and general expenses continued 2007 Audit Taxation Other Audit related services services Total m m m m m Audit of the Groups annual accounts 7 7 Other services: Fees payable for the audit of the Companys associates pursuant to legislation 12 12 Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation 62 8 Other services relating to taxation 8 8 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates 5 5 Other 2 24 Total auditors remuneration 25 487 44 2006 Audit Taxation Other Audit related services services Total m m m m m Audit of the Groups annual accounts 7 7 Other services: Fees payable for the audit of the Companys associates pursuant to legislation 11 11 Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation 10 1 11 Other services relating to taxation 6 6 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates 4 4 Other 4 15 Total auditors remuneration 28 5 6 5 44 The figures shown in the above table relate to fees paid to  LLP and its associates.
Fees paid to other auditors not associated with  LLP in respect of the audit of the Companys subsidiaries were 3m 2007: 2m, 2006: 2m.
Fees payable for the audit of the Companys associates pursuant to legislation comprise the fees for the statutory audit of the subsidiaries and associated pension schemes both inside and outside Great Britain and fees for the work performed by the associates of  LLP in respect of the consolidated financial statements of the Company.
The fees relating to the audit of the associated pension schemes were 0.2m 2007: 0.3m, 2006: 0.3m.
3 Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation comprise services in relation to statutory and regulatory filings.
These include audit services for the review of the interim financial information under the Listing Rules of the UK listing authority and fees paid for reporting under Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404.
In 2008 fees paid for reporting under section 404 are not separately identifiable from the fees of the audit of the Groups annual accounts and the Companys associates.
In addition, other services include Section 404 advisory, reporting accountant work for capital raising, securitisations and services relating to acquisition activities.
Taxation services include compliance services such as tax return preparation and advisory services such as consultation on tax matters, tax advice relating to transactions and other tax planning and advice.
Services relating to corporate finance transactions comprise due diligence related to transactions and other work in connection with such transactions.
10 Tax The charge for tax is based upon the UK corporation tax rate of 28.5% 2007: 30%, 2006: 30% and comprises: 2008 2007 2006 m m m Current tax charge credit Current year 1,563 2,385 1,929 Adjustment for prior years 97 11 8 1,660 2,374 1,937 Deferred tax credit charge Current year 597 367 16 Adjustment for prior years 273 26 20 870 393 4 Total charge credit 790 1,981 1,941 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 213 C14170 Barclays B 210-225. qxp:B File 15 6 3 09 01:32 Page 214 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 10 Tax continued The effective tax rate for the years 2008, 2007 and 2006 is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28.5% 2007: 30%, 2006: 30%.
The differences are set out below: 2008 2007 2006 m m m Profit before tax 6,077 7,076 7,136 Tax charge at standard UK corporation tax rate of 28.5% 2007: 30%, 2006: 30% 1,732 2,123 2,141 Adjustment for prior years 176 37 24 Differing overseas tax rates 215 77 17 Non-taxable gains and income including amounts offset by unrecognised tax losses 833 136 393 Share-based payments 229 72 27 Deferred tax assets not previously recognised 514 158 4 Change in tax rates 1 24 4 Other non-allowable expenses 138 170 159 Overall tax charge 790 1,981 1,941 Effective tax rate 13% 28% 27% The effective rate of tax for 2008, based on profit before tax, was 13% 2007: 28%.
The effective tax rate differs from the 2007 effective rate and the UK corporation tax rate of 28.5% principally due to the Lehman Brothers North American businesses acquisition.
Under IFRS the gain on acquisition of 2,262m is calculated net of deferred tax liabilities included in the acquisition balance sheet and is thus not subject to further tax in calculating the tax charge for the year.
Furthermore, Barclays has tax losses previously unrecognised as a deferred tax asset but capable of sheltering part of this deferred tax liability.
This gives rise to a tax benefit of 492m which, in accordance with IAS 12, is included as a credit within the tax charge for the year.
The effective rate has been adversely impacted by the effect of the fall in the Barclays share price on the deferred tax asset recognised on share awards.
In common with prior years there have been offsetting adjustments relating to different overseas tax rates, disallowable expenditure and non taxable gains and income.
11 Earnings per share 2008 2007 2006 m m m Profit attributable to equity holders of parent 4,382 4,417 4,571 Dilutive impact of convertible options 24 25 30 Profit attributable to equity holders of parent including dilutive impact of convertible options 4,358 4,392 4,541 2008 2007 2006 million million million Basic weighted average number of shares in issue 7,389 6,410 6,357 Number of potential ordinary shares 188 177 150 Diluted weighted average number of shares 7,577 6,587 6,507 p pp Basic earnings per share 59.3 68.9 71.9 Diluted earnings per share 57.5 66.7 69.8 The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent and the number of basic weighted average number of shares excluding own shares held in employee benefits trusts and shares held for trading.
The basic and diluted weighted average number of shares in issue in the year ended 31st December 2008 reflects 1,802 million shares issued during the year and the 2,642 million shares that will be issued following conversion in full of the Mandatorily Convertible Notes, included from the date of issue and the date the contract was entered into respectively.
As a result, the weighted average number of shares in issue in the year ended 31st December 2008 was increased by 1,034 million shares as a result of this increase.
When calculating the diluted earnings per share, the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent is adjusted for the conversion of outstanding options into shares within Absa Group Limited and Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares excluding own shares held in employee benefit trusts and shares held for trading, is adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, totalling 188 million 2007: 177 million, 2006: 150 million.
Of the total number of employee share options and share awards at 31st December 2008, 64 million were anti-dilutive 2007: nil, 2006: 5 million.
Subsequent to the balance sheet date, the Group continued to make on-market purchases of treasury shares under its various employee share schemes.
No adjustment has been made to earnings per share in respect of these purchases.
| 214 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 210-225. qxp:B File 15 6 3 09 01:32 Page 215 12 Trading portfolio 2008 2007 m m Trading portfolio assets Treasury and other eligible bills 4,544 2,094 Debt securities 148,686 152,778 Equity securities 30,535 36,307 Traded loans 1,070 1,780 Commodities 802 732 Trading portfolio assets 185,637 193,691 Trading portfolio liabilities Treasury and other eligible bills 79 486 Debt securities 44,309 50,506 Equity securities 14,919 13,702 Commodities 167 708 Trading portfolio liabilities 59,474 65,402 13 Financial assets designated at fair value Held on own account 2008 2007 m m Loans and advances 30,187 23,491 Debt securities 8,628 24,217 Equity securities 6,496 5,376 Other financial assets 9,231 3,545 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 54,542 56,629 The maximum exposure to credit risk on loans and advances designated at fair value at 31st December 2008 was 30,187m 2007: 23,491m.
The amount by which related credit derivatives and similar instruments mitigate the exposure to credit risk at 31st December was 2,084m 2007: 2,605m.
3 The net loss attributable to changes in credit risk for loans and advances designated at fair value was 2,550m in 2008 2007: 401m.
The gains on related credit derivatives was 519m for the year 2007: 4m loss.
The cumulative net loss attributable to changes in credit risk for loans and advances designated at fair value since initial recognition is 2,149m at 31st December 2008 2007: 401m.
The cumulative change in fair value of related credit derivatives at 31st December 2008 is 523m 2007: 4m.
Held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts liabilities arising from investment contracts 2008 2007 m m Financial assets designated at fair value held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 66,657 90,851 Cash and bank balances within the portfolio 2,526 1,788 Assets held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 69,183 92,639 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 69,183 92,639 A portion of the Groups fund management business takes the legal form of investment contracts, under which legal title to the underlying investment is held by the Group, but the inherent risks and rewards in the investments are borne by the investors.
In the normal course of business, the Groups financial interest in such investments is restricted to fees for investment management services.
Due to the nature of these contracts, the carrying value of the assets is always the same as the value of the liabilities and any change in the value of the assets results in an equal but opposite change in the value of the amounts due to the policyholders.
The Group is therefore not exposed to the financial risks market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk inherent in the investments and they are omitted from the disclosures on financial risks in Notes 47 to 49.
In the balance sheet, the assets are included as Financial assets designated at fair value held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts.
Cash balances within the portfolio have been included in the Groups cash balances.
The associated obligation to deliver the value of the investments to customers at their fair value on balance sheet date is included as Liabilities to customers under investment contracts.
The increase decrease in the value arising from the return on the investments and the corresponding increase decrease in linked liabilities to customers is included in the Other income note in Note 6.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 215 C14170 Barclays B 210-225. qxp:B File 15 6 3 09 01:32 Page 216 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 14 Derivative financial instruments The Groups objectives and policies on managing the risks that arise in connection with derivatives, including the policies for hedging, are included in Note 46 to Note 49.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 210-225. qxp:B File 15 6 3 09 01:32 Page 217 14 Derivative financial instruments continued The fair values and notional amounts of derivative instruments held for risk management are set out in the following table: Year ended 31st December Derivatives held for risk management 2008 2007 Notional Fair value Notional Fair value contract contract amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities m m m m m m Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges Currency swaps 586 271 Interest rate swaps 60,669 1,013 1,011 38,453 239 437 Equity options 400 154 54 41 Forward foreign exchange 1,871 309 354 2,256 178 Exchange traded interest rate swaps 20,028 14,529 Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 83,554 1,322 1,790 55,292 458 437 Derivatives designated as fair value hedges Currency swaps 2,666 283 105 4,299 81 75 Interest rate swaps 14,010 1,052 357 18,450 323 195 Equity options 259 124 110 1,203 58 58 Exchange traded interest rate swaps 18,767 Derivatives designated as fair value hedges 35,702 1,459 572 23,952 462 328 Derivatives designated as hedges of net investments Forward foreign exchange 2,019 4 76 4,223 31 57 Currency swaps 3,675 21 1,563 8,397 187 88 Derivatives designated as hedges of net investment 5,694 25 1,639 12,620 218 145 Derivative assets liabilities held for risk management 124,950 2,806 4,001 91,864 1,138 910 Interest rate derivatives, designated as cash flow hedges, primarily hedge the exposure to cash flow variability from interest rates of variable rate loans to banks and customers, variable rate debt securities held and highly probable forecast financing transactions and reinvestments.
Interest rate derivatives designated as fair value hedges primarily hedge the interest rate risk of fixed rate borrowings in issue, fixed rate loans to banks and customers and investments in fixed rate debt securities held.
Currency derivatives are primarily designated as hedges of the foreign currency risk of net investments in foreign operations.
3 The Groups total derivative asset and liability position as reported on the balance sheet is as follows: Year ended 31st December 2008 2007 Notional Fair value Notional Fair value contract contract amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities m m m m m m Total derivative assets liabilities held for trading 45,740,782 981,996 964,071 29,199,895 246,950 247,378 Total derivative assets liabilities held for risk management 124,950 2,806 4,001 91,864 1,138 910 Derivative assets liabilities 45,865,732 984,802 968,072 29,291,759 248,088 248,288 Derivative assets and liabilities subject to counterparty netting agreements amounted to 862bn 2007: 199bn.
Additionally, the Group held 55bn 2007: 17bn of collateral against the net derivative assets exposure.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 217 C14170 Barclays B 210-225. qxp:B File 15 6 3 09 01:32 Page 218 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 14 Derivative financial instruments continued The Group has hedged the following forecast cash flows, which primarily vary with interest rates.
These cash flows are expected to impact the income statement in the following periods, excluding any hedge adjustments that may be applied: 2008 Between Between Between Between Up to one to two to three to four to More than Total one year two years three years four years five years five years m m m m m m m Forecast receivable cash flows 2,569 875 586 596 347 127 38 Forecast payable cash flows 974 275 166 175 145 123 90 2007 Between Between Between Between Up to one to two to three to four to More than Total one year two years three years four years five years five years m m m m m m m Forecast receivable cash flows 4,329 1,593 987 903 535 254 57 Forecast payable cash flows 2,121 394 369 335 283 244 496 The maximum length of time over which the Group hedges exposure to the variability in future cash flows for forecast transactions, excluding those forecast transactions related to the payment of variable interest on existing financial instruments, is seven years 2007: ten years.
All gains or losses on hedging derivatives relating to forecast transactions, which are no longer expected to occur, have been recycled to the income statement.
A gain of 2,439m on hedging instruments was recognised in relation to fair value hedges in net interest income 2007: 66m loss.
A loss of 2,423m on the hedged items was recognised in relation to fair value hedges in net interest income 2007: 70m gain.
Ineffectiveness recognised in relation to cash flow hedges in net interest income was a gain of 14m 2007: 21m.
Ineffectiveness recognised in relation to hedges of net investment was a gain of 2m 2007: 4m.
15 Loans and advances to banks and customers 2008 2007 m m Gross loans and advances to banks 47,758 40,123 Less: Allowance for impairment 51 3 Loans and advances to banks 47,707 40,120 Gross loans and advances to customers 468,338 349,167 Less: Allowance for impairment 6,523 3,769 Loans and advances to customers 461,815 345,398 | 218 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 210-225. qxp:B File 15 6 3 09 01:32 Page 219 16 Available for sale financial investments 2008 2007 m m Debt securities 58,831 38,673 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 4,003 2,723 Equity securities 2,142 1,676 Available for sale financial investments 64,976 43,072 2008 2007 Movement in available for sale financial investments m m At beginning of year 43,072 51,703 Exchange and other adjustments 14,275 1,499 Acquisitions and transfers 59,703 26,920 Disposals through sale and redemption 50,501 37,498 Losses gains from changes in fair value recognised in equity 1,174 486 Impairment 382 13 Amortisation of discounts premium 17 25 At end of year 64,976 43,072 17 Securities borrowing, securities lending, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements Amounts included in the balance sheet and reported on a net basis where the Group has the intention and the legal ability to settle net or realise simultaneously were as follows: a Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed Amounts advanced to counterparties under reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral provided under stock borrowing agreements are treated as collateralised loans receivable.
The related securities purchased or borrowed subject to an agreement with the counterparty to repurchase them are not recognised on balance sheet where the risks and rewards of ownership remain with the counterparty.
2008 2007 m m Banks 55,471 86,710 Customers 74,883 96,365 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral held on securities borrowed 130,354 183,075 3 b Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent Securities that are not recorded on the balance sheet for example, securities that have been obtained as a result of reverse repurchase and stock borrow transactions may also be lent or sold subject to a commitment to repurchase such securities remain off-balance sheet.
In both instances, amounts received from counterparty are treated as liabilities, which at 31st December were as follows: 2008 2007 m m Banks 87,403 97,297 Customers 94,882 72,132 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 182,285 169,429 18 Other assets 2008 2007 m m Sundry debtors 4,814 4,042 Prepayments 882 551 Accrued income 483 400 Reinsurance assets 123 157 Other assets 6,302 5,150 Included in the above are balances of 4,704m 2007: 3,859m expected to be recovered within no more than 12 months after the balance sheet date: and balances of 1,598m 2007: 1,291m expected to be recovered more than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Other assets include 3,096m 2007: 3,966m of receivables which meet the definition of financial assets.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 219 C14170 Barclays B 210-225. qxp:B File 15 6 3 09 01:32 Page 220 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 19 Deferred tax The components of deferred taxes disclosed on the balance sheet are as follows: 2008 2007 m m Deferred tax liability 304 855 Deferred tax asset 2,668 1,463 Net deferred tax 2,364 608 Deferred taxes are calculated on all temporary differences under the liability method.
The amount of deferred tax asset expected to be recovered after more than 12 months is 4,593m 2007: 1,950m.
The deferred tax assets balance includes 2,139m 2007: 450m which is the excess deferred tax assets over deferred tax liabilities in entities which have suffered a loss in either the current or prior year.
This is based on management assessment that it is probable that the relevant entities will have taxable profits against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of deductible temporary differences gross 9m 2007: 247m, unused tax losses gross of 4,083m 2007: 1,683m and unused tax credits of 46m 2007: 126m.
The following tax losses expire: 3,854m in 2028.
The other tax losses, tax credits and temporary differences do not expire under current tax legislation.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise benefits.
The unused tax losses include amounts relating to non-UK branches of Barclays Bank PLC where the future tax benefit might be restricted to the amount in excess of the UK rate.
The amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is 8,429m 2007: 5,722m.
| 220 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 210-225. qxp:B File 15 6 3 09 01:32 Page 221 20 Investments in associates and joint ventures Share of net assets Associates Joint ventures Total 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m m m At beginning of year 90 74 287 154 377 228 Share of results before tax 25 35 6 10 19 45 Share of tax 3 2 2 1 5 3 Share of post-tax results 22 33 8 9 14 42 New investments 6 7 27 8 33 15 Acquisitions 62 56 1 150 63 206 Disposals 20 47 117 72 137 119 Exchange and other adjustments 15 33 24 38 9 5 At end of year 175 90 166 287 341 377 Goodwill included above: Associates Joint ventures Total 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m m m Cost At beginning of year 1 27 40 27 41 Disposals 1 16 17 Exchange and other adjustments 4 3 4 3 At end of year 31 27 31 27 The Group has investments in two associates listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
The fair value of the Groups investment in Ambit Properties Limited is 51m 2007: 42m and in Pinnacle Point Group Limited, acquired during 2008, is 60m.
Acquisitions of joint ventures and associates During the year the Group made additional investments in associates and joint ventures for aggregate cash consideration of 96m 2007: 221m, including new associates and joint ventures amounting to 63m 2007: 206m primarily relating to Pinnacle Point Group Limited.
Summarised financial information for the Groups associates and joint ventures is set out below: 3 2008 2007 Joint Joint Associates ventures Associates ventures m m m m Property, plant and equipment 788 104 588 632 Financial investments 124 239 8 Loans to banks and customers 271 2,883 516 2,372 Other assets 1,343 418 1,387 314 Total assets 2,526 3,405 2,730 3,326 Deposits from banks and customers 1,376 2,207 1,515 2,189 Other liabilities 985 890 902 458 Shareholders equity 165 308 313 679 Total liabilities 2,526 3,405 2,730 3,326 Net income 859 357 528 340 Operating expenses 732 364 404 292 Profit loss before tax 127 7 124 48 Profit loss after tax 52 11 104 40 The amounts included above, which include the entire assets, liabilities and net income of the investees, not just the Groups share, are based on accounts made up to 31st December 2008 with the exception of certain undertakings for which the amounts are based on accounts made up to dates not earlier than three months before the balance sheet date.
Associates and joint ventures in 2008 includes 1,651m 2007: 1,728m of assets, 1,525m 2007: 1,537m of liabilities and 9m 2007: 18m of profit after tax in associates and joint ventures within the Absa Group.
The Groups share of commitments and contingencies of its associates and joint ventures is nil 2007: 6m.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 221 C14170 Barclays B 210-225. qxp:B File 15 6 3 09 01:32 Page 222 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 21 Goodwill 2008 2007 m m Net book value At beginning of year 7,014 6,092 Acquisitions 400 879 Disposals 10 17 Impairment charge 111 Exchange and other adjustments 332 60 At end of year 7,625 7,014 Goodwill is allocated to business operations according to business segments identified by the Group under IFRS 8, as follows: 2008 2007 m m UK Retail Banking 3,139 3,138 Barclays Commercial Bank 10 9 Barclaycard 413 408 GRCB Western Europe 705 551 GRCB Emerging Markets 292 45 GRCB Absa 1,084 1,062 Barclays Capital 95 147 Barclays Global Investors 1,496 1,261 Barclays Wealth 391 393 Goodwill 7,625 7,014 Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment, or more frequently when there are indicators that impairment may have occurred, by comparing the carrying value to its recoverable amount.
Impairment testing of goodwill The recoverable amount of each operations goodwill is based on value-in-use or fair value less costs to sell calculations.
The calculations are based upon discounting expected pre-tax cash flows at a risk adjusted interest rate appropriate to the cash generating unit, the determination of both of which requires the exercise of judgement.
The estimation of pre-tax cash flows is sensitive to the periods for which forecasts are available and to assumptions regarding the long-term sustainable cash flows.
While forecasts are compared with actual performance and external economic data, expected cash flows naturally reflect managements view of future performance.
At 31st December 2008, the goodwill allocated to UK Retail Banking was 3,139m 2007: 3,138m including 3,130m 2007: 3,130m relating to Woolwich, the goodwill allocated toGRCB Absa was 1,084m 2007: 1,062m and the goodwill allocated to Barclays Global Investors was 1,496m 2007: 1,261m.
The remaining aggregate of goodwill of 1,915m 2007: 1,561m consists of balances relating to multiple business operations which are not considered individually significant.
Goodwill impairment of 111m 2007: nil reflects the full write-down of 74m relating to EquiFirst, a US non-prime mortgage originator and a partial write-down of 37m relating to FirstPlus following its closure to new business in August 2008.
Key assumptions used in impairment testing for significant goodwill UK Retail Banking The recoverable amount of UK Retail Banking has been determined based on a value in use calculation.
The calculation uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a three year period, and a discount rate of 17.48%.
For the purposes of the calculations, cash flows beyond that period have been extrapolated using a steady 3% growth rate.
The growth rate does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the market in which UK Retail Banking operates.
Management believes that any reasonable possible change in the key assumptions on which UK Retail Bankings recoverable amount is based would not cause its carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
Global Retail and Commercial Banking Absa The recoverable amount of GRCB Absa has been determined based on a value in use calculation.
The calculation uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a three year period, and a discount rate of 14.10%.
For the purposes of the calculations, cash flows beyond that period have been extrapolated using a growth rate of 8% to cash flows for the two years 2012 to 2013, and a rate of 6% for the ten years 2014 to 2023.
The growth rate does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the market in which GRCB Absa operates.
Management believes that any reasonable possible change in the key assumptions on which GRCB Absas recoverable amount is based would not cause its carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
Barclays Global Investors The recoverable amount of BGI has been determined based on a fair value methodology approach which includes both a discounted cash flow valuation and comparable company valuation multiples based on revenue, EBITDA and assets under management.
The calculation uses earnings projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a three year period and a discount rate of 11.5%.
For the purposes of the calculations, cash flows beyond that period have been extrapolated using growth rates of between 2% and 11% for cash flows from 2012 to 2017, and a terminal growth factor of 4% for 2018 and beyond.
The growth rate does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the market in which BGI operates.
Management believes that any reasonable possible change in the key assumptions on which BGIs recoverable amount is based would not cause its carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
| 222 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 210-225. qxp:B File 15 6 3 09 01:32 Page 223 22 Intangible assets 2008 Internally Core Mortgage generated Other deposit Customer servicing Licences software software intangibles Brands lists rights and other Total m m m m m m m m Cost At 1st January 2008 388 188 244 149 524 126 161 1,780 Acquisitions 127 17 6 992 210 1,352 Additions disposals 274 5 3 282 Exchange and other adjustments 59 8 49 47 52 215 At 31st December 2008 721 328 261 155 1,565 173 426 3,629 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1st January 2008 163 57 37 38 101 64 38 498 Disposals 11 7 18 Amortisation charge 86 33 14 15 62 22 59 291 Impairment release 3 3 Exchange and other adjustments 49 14 1 2 9 30 7 84 At 31st December 2008 284 69 52 55 172 116 104 852 Net book value 437 259 209 100 1,393 57 322 2,777 2007 Internally Core Mortgage generated Other deposit Customer servicing Licences software software intangibles Brands lists rights and other Total m m m m m m m m Cost At 1st January 2007 267 123 242 145 467 122 140 1,506 Acquisitions 54 23 77 Additions 118 56 3 4 181 Exchange and other adjustments 39213 2 16 At 31st December 2007 388 188 244 149 524 126 161 1,780 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1st January 2007 116 29 24 22 64 10 26 291 Amortisation charge 45 13 11 15 36 54 12 186 3 Impairment charge 14 14 Exchange and other adjustments 2 1 2 1 1 7 At 31st December 2007 163 57 37 38 101 64 38 498 Net book value 225 131 207 111 423 62 123 1,282 The impairment release detailed above has been included within other operating expenses.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 223 C14170 Barclays B 210-225. qxp:B File 15 6 3 09 01:32 Page 224 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 23 Property, plant and equipment 2008 2007 Operating Operating leased leased Property Equipment assets Total Property Equipment assets Total m m m m m m m m Cost At 1st January 2,451 2,995 413 5,859 2,154 2,429 365 4,948 Acquisitions and disposals 992 218 1,210 5 13 18 Additions 493 846 126 1,465 506 638 105 1,249 Disposals 485 276 235 996 241 112 57 410 Fully depreciated assets written off 15 7 22 1 8 9 Exchange and other adjustments 188 168 356 28 35 63 At 31st December 3,624 3,944 304 7,872 2,451 2,995 413 5,859 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1st January 1,044 1,804 15 2,863 993 1,454 9 2,456 Acquisitions and disposals 8 12 20 1 7 8 Depreciation charge 124 475 31 630 91 370 6 467 Impairment charge 33 33 2 2 Disposals 168 185 3 356 58 37 95 Fully depreciated assets written off 15 7 22 18 9 Exchange and other adjustments 18 12 30 16 18 34 At 31st December 1,011 2,144 43 3,198 1,044 1,804 15 2,863 Net book value 2,613 1,800 261 4,674 1,407 1,191 398 2,996 Operating leased assets represent assets such as plant and equipment leased to customers under operating leases.
Certain of the Groups equipment is held on finance leases.
| 224 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 210-225. qxp:B File 15 6 3 09 01:32 Page 225 24 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 2008 2007 Contractual Contractual amount amount due on due on Fair value maturity Fair value maturity m m m m Debt securities 61,297 69,197 52,320 62,167 Deposits 10,518 10,109 17,319 18,140 Other 5,077 6,761 4,850 6,239 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 76,892 86,067 74,489 86,546 At 31st December 2008, the own credit adjustment arose from the fair valuation of 54.5bn of Barclays Capital structured notes 2007: 40.7bn.
The widening of Barclays credit spreads in the year affected the fair value of these notes and as a result revaluation gains of 1,663m were recognised in trading income 2007: 658m.
25 Other liabilities 2008 2007 m m Accruals and deferred income 6,495 6,075 Sundry creditors 6,049 4,341 Obligations under finance leases Note 37 96 83 Other liabilities 12,640 10,499 Included in the above are balances of 11,068m 2007: 9,043m expected to be settled within no more than 12 months after the balance sheet date: and balances of 1,572m 2007: 1,456m expected to be settled more than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Accruals and deferred income included nil 2007: 102m in relation to deferred income from investment contracts and nil 2007: 677m in relation to deferred income from insurance contracts.
3 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 225 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:32 Page 226 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 26 Insurance assets and liabilities Insurance assets Reinsurance assets are 123m 2007: 157m and relate principally to the Groups long-term business.
Reinsurers share of provisions relating to the Groups short-term business are 32m 2007: 94m.
The reinsurance assets expected to be recovered after more than one year are 91m 2007: 63m.
Insurance contract liabilities including unit-linked liabilities Insurance liabilities comprise the following: 2008 2007 m m Insurance contract liabilities: linked liabilities 125 1,398 non-linked liabilities 1,908 2,347 Provision for claims 119 158 Insurance contract liabilities including unit-linked liabilities 2,152 3,903 Insurance contract liabilities relate principally to the Groups long-term business.
Insurance contract liabilities associated with the Groups short-term non-life business are 73m 2007: 174m.
Movements in insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets Movements in insurance assets and insurance contract liabilities were as follows: 2008 2007 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net m m m m m m At beginning of year 3,903 157 3,746 3,878 172 3,706 Change in year 1,751 34 1,717 25 15 40 At end of year 2,152 123 2,029 3,903 157 3,746 Assumptions used to measure insurance liabilities The assumptions that have the greatest effect on the measurement of the amounts recognised above, and the processes used to determine them were as follows: Long-term business linked and non-linked Mortality mortality estimates are based on standard industry and national mortality tables, adjusted where appropriate to reflect the Groups own experience.
A margin is added to ensure prudence for example, future mortality improvements for annuity business.
Renewal expenses level and inflation expense reserves are a small part of overall insurance liabilities, however, increases in expenses caused by unanticipated inflation or other unforeseen factors could lead to expense reserve increases.
Expenses are therefore set using prudent assumptions.
Initial renewal expense levels are set by considering expense forecasts for the business and, where appropriate, building in a margin to allow for the increasing burden of fixed costs on the UK closed life book of business.
The inflation assumption is set by adding a margin to the market rate of inflation implied by index-linked gilt yields.
Short-term business Short-term business for single premium policies the proportion of unearned premiums is calculated based on estimates of the frequency and severity of incidents.
Changes in assumptions There have been no changes in assumptions in 2008 that have had a material effect on the financial statements.
Uncertainties associated with cash flows related to insurance contracts and risk management activities Long-term insurance contracts linked and non-linked For long-term insurance contracts where death is the insured risk, the most significant factors that could detrimentally affect the frequency and severity of claims are the incidence of disease, such as AIDS, or general changes in lifestyle, such as in eating, exercise and smoking.
Where survival is the insured risk, advances in medical care and social conditions are the key factors that increase longevity.
The Group manages its exposure to risk by operating in part as a unit-linked business, prudent product design, applying strict underwriting criteria, transferring risk to reinsurers, managing claims and establishing prudent reserves.
Short-term insurance contracts For payment protection contracts where inability to make payments under a loan contract is the insured risk, the most significant factors are the health of the policyholder and the possibility of unemployment which depends upon, among other things, long-term and short-term economic factors.
The Group manages its exposure to such risks through prudent product design, efficient claims management, prudent reserving methodologies and bases, regular product, economic and market reviews and regular adequacy tests on the size of the reserves.
Absa insures property and motor vehicles, for which the most significant factors that could effect the frequency and severity of claims are climatic change and crime.
Absa manages its exposure to risk by diversifying insurance risks accepted and transferring risk to reinsurers.
| 226 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:32 Page 227 26 Insurance assets and liabilities continued Sensitivity analysis The following table presents the sensitivity of the level of insurance contract liabilities disclosed in this note to movements in the actuarial assumptions used to calculate them.
The percentage change in variable is applied to a range of existing actuarial modelling assumptions to derive the possible impact on net profit after tax.
The disclosure is not intended to explain the impact of a percentage change in the insurance assets and liabilities disclosed above.
2008 2007 Net profit Net profit Change in after tax Change in after tax variable impact variable impact % m % m Long-term insurance contracts: Improving mortality annuitants only 10 1 10 21 Worsening of mortality assured lives only 10 20 10 29 Worsening of base renewal expense level 20 19 20 43 Worsening of expense inflation rate 10 1 10 10 Short-term insurance contracts: Worsening of claim expense assumptions 10 3 10 3 Any change in net profit after tax would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in shareholders equity.
The above analyses are based on a change in a single assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice this is unlikely to occur.
Options and guarantees The Groups contracts do not contain options or guarantees that could confer material risk.
Concentration of insurance risk The Group considers that the concentration of insurance risk that is most relevant to the Group financial statements is according to the type of cover offered and the location of insured risk.
The following table shows the maximum amounts payable under all of the Groups insurance products.
It ignores the probability of insured events occurring and the contribution from investments backing the insurance policies.
The table shows the broad product types and the location of the insured risk, before and after the impact of reinsurance that represents the risk that is passed to other insurers.
2008 2007 Before After Before After Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance m m m m m m Total benefits insured by product type 3 Long-term insurance contracts 19,193 3,591 15,602 31,205 10,497 20,708 Short-term insurance contracts 36,228 2,735 33,493 31,464 1,139 30,325 Total benefits insured 55,421 6,326 49,095 62,669 11,636 51,033 2008 2007 Before After Before After Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance m m m m m m Total benefits insured by geographic location United Kingdom 8,120 525 7,595 22,538 7,473 15,065 Other European Union 6,519 2,305 4,214 4,304 2,479 1,825 Africa 40,782 3,496 37,286 35,827 1,684 34,143 Total benefits insured 55,421 6,326 49,095 62,669 11,636 51,033 Reinsurer credit risk For the long-term business, reinsurance programmes are in place to restrict the amount of cover on any single life.
The reinsurance cover is spread across highly rated companies to diversify the risk of reinsurer solvency.
Net insurance reserves include a margin to reflect reinsurer credit risk.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 227 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:32 Page 228 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 27 Subordinated liabilities Subordinated liabilities comprise dated and undated loan capital as follows: 2008 2007 m m Undated loan capital a 13,673 6,631 Dated loan capital b 16,169 11,519 29,842 18,150 a Undated loan capital 2008 2007 Notes m m Non-convertible The Bank 6% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes a, q 487 392 6.86% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes US$1,000m a, q 1,118 624 5.3304% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments b, r 652 520 5.926% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments US$1,350m c, s 1,109 708 6.3688% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments n, ae 600 526 7.434% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments US$1,250m o, af 1,055 660 14% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments e, t 2,514 Junior Undated Floating Rate Notes US$121m d, u 83 61 7.7% Undated Subordinated Notes US$2,000m p, ah 1,644 Undated Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes Series 3 d, v 147 147 9.875% Undated Subordinated Notes 319 9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds ex-Woolwich plc f, w 232 171 9% Permanent Interest Bearing Capital Bonds g, x 120 102 8.25% Undated Subordinated Notes p, ag 1,092 7.125% Undated Subordinated Notes h, y 620 535 6.875% Undated Subordinated Notes i, z 729 657 6.375% Undated Subordinated Notes j, aa 526 482 6.125% Undated Subordinated Notes k, ab 666 560 6.5% Undated Subordinated Notes FFr 1,000m l, ac 151 115 5.03% Reverse Dual Currency Undated Subordinated Loan Yen 8,000m m, ad 51 21 5% Reverse Dual Currency Undated Subordinated Loan Yen 12,000m m, ad 77 31 Undated loan capital non-convertible 13,673 6,631 Security and subordination None of the undated loan capital of the Bank is secured.
The Junior Undated Floating Rate Notes the Junior Notes rank behind the claims against the Bank of depositors and other unsecured unsubordinated creditors and holders of dated loan capital.
All other issues of the Banks undated loan capital rank pari passu with each other and behind the claims of the holders of the Junior Notes, except for the 6% and 6.86% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes the TONs and the 5.3304%, 5.926%, 6.3688%, 7.434% and 14% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments the RCIs such issues, excluding the TONs and the RCIs, being the Undated Notes and Loans.
The TONs and the RCIs rank pari passu with each other and behind the claims of the holders of the Undated Notes and Loans.
Interest Notes a These TONs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2032.
After that date, in the event that the TONs are not redeemed, the TONs will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
b These RCIs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2036.
After that date, in the event that the RCIs are not redeemed, the RCIs will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
c These RCIs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2016.
d These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
e These RCIs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2019.
f These Bonds bear a fixed rate of interest until 2021.
After that date, in the event that the Bonds are not redeemed, the coupon will be reset to a fixed margin over a reference gilt rate for a further period of five years.
g The interest rate on these Bonds is fixed for the life of this issue.
h These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2020.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the coupon will be reset to a fixed margin over a reference gilt rate for a further period of five years.
i These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2015.
| 228 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:32 Page 229 27 Subordinated liabilities continued j These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2017.
k These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2027.
l These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2009.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on European interbank rates.
m These Loans bear a fixed rate of interest until 2028 based on a US Dollar principal amount, but the interest payments have been swapped, resulting in a Yen interest rate payable, which is fixed periodically in advance based on London interbank rates.
After that date, in the event that the Loans are not redeemed, the Loans will bear Yen interest rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
n These RCIs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2019.
o These RCIs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2017.
p These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2018.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
The Bank is not obliged to make a payment of interest on its Undated Notes and Loans excluding the 9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds, 7.7% Undated Subordinated Notes and 8.25% Undated Subordinated Notes if, in the preceding six months, a dividend has not been declared or paid on any class of shares of Barclays PLC or, in certain cases, any class of preference shares of the Bank.
The Bank is not obliged to make a payment of interest on its 9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds if, in the immediately preceding 12 months interest period, a dividend has not been paid on any class of its share capital.
Interest not so paid becomes payable in each case if such a dividend is subsequently paid or in certain other circumstances.
During the year, the Bank declared and paid dividends on its ordinary shares and on all classes of preference shares.
No payment of principal or any interest may be made unless the Bank satisfies a specified solvency test.
The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the 7.7% Undated Subordinated Notes and 8.25% Undated Subordinated Notes.
Until such time as any deferred interest has been paid in full, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may declare or pay a dividend, subject to certain exceptions, on any of its ordinary shares, preference shares, or other share capital or satisfy any payments of interest or coupons on certain other junior obligations.
The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the RCIs b, c, e, n and o above.
Any such deferred payment of interest must be paid on the earlier of i the date of redemption of the RCIs, ii the coupon payment date falling on or nearest to the tenth anniversary of the date of deferral of such payment, and iii in respect of e above only, substitution.
Whilst such deferral is continuing, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may declare or pay a dividend, subject to certain exceptions, on any of its ordinary shares or preference shares.
The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the TONs if it determines that it is, or such payment would result in it being, in non-compliance with capital adequacy requirements and policies of the FSA.
Any such deferred payment of interest will only be payable on a redemption of the TONs.
Until such time as the Bank next makes a payment of interest on the TONs, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may i declare or pay a dividend, subject to certain exceptions, on any of their respective ordinary shares or Preference Shares, or make payments of interest in respect of the Banks Reserve Capital 3 Instruments and ii certain restrictions on the redemption, purchase or reduction of their respective share capital and certain other securities also apply.
Repayment Notes q These TONs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after June 2032. r These RCIs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after December 2036. s These RCIs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after December 2016. t These RCIs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after June 2019. u These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole or in part on any interest payment date.
v These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any interest payment date.
w These Bonds are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2021, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
x These Bonds are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole at any time.
y These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2020, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
z These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2015, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
aa These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2017, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
ab These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2027, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
ac These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2009, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
ad These Loans are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2028, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
ae These RCIs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after December 2019. af These RCIs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after December 2017. ag These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any interest payment date falling in or after December 2018. ah These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any interest payment date falling in or after April 2018.
In addition, each issue of undated loan capital is repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole for certain tax reasons, either at any time, or on an interest payment date.
There are no events of default except non-payment of principal or mandatory interest.
Any repayments require the prior notification to the FSA.
All issues of undated loan capital have been made in the eurocurrency market and or under Rule 144A, and no issues have been registered under the US Securities Act of 1933.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 229 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:32 Page 230 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 27 Subordinated liabilities continued b Dated loan capital Dated loan capital, issued by the Bank for the development and expansion of the Groups business and to strengthen its capital base, by Barclays Bank Spain SA Barclays Spain, Barclays Bank of Botswana Ltd BBB, Barclays Bank Zambia PLC Barclays Zambia and Barclays Bank of Kenya Barclays Kenya to enhance their respective capital bases and by Absa and Barclays Bank of Ghana Ltd BBG for general corporate purposes, comprise: 2008 2007 Notes m m Non-convertible The Bank 7.4% Subordinated Notes 2009 US$400m a 275 200 Subordinated Fixed to CMS-Linked Notes 2009 31m b 31 23 12% Unsecured Capital Loan Stock 2010 a 27 27 5.75% Subordinated Notes 2011 1,000m a 943 724 5.25% Subordinated Notes 2011 250m ex-Woolwich plc a 260 200 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2013 US$1,000m 501 5.015% Subordinated Notes 2013 US$150m a 112 77 4.875% Subordinated Notes 2013 750m a 750 583 5.5% Subordinated Notes 2013 DM 500m 196 Floating Rate Subordinated Step-up Callable Notes 2013 Yen 5,500m 25 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2013 AU$150m 67 5.93% Subordinated Notes 2013 AU$100m 44 Callable Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2015 US$1,500m b, k 1,031 753 4.38% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2015 US$75m a 88 30 4.75% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2015 US$150m a 81 85 Floating Rate Subordinated Step-up Callable Notes 2016 US$750m b, k 514 375 Callable Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016 1,250m b, k 1,211 927 Callable Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2017 US$500m b, k 343 250 10.125% Subordinated Notes 2017 ex-Woolwich plc h, k 109 111 Floating Rate Subordinated Step-up Callable Notes 2017 US$1,500m b, k 1,029 749 Floating Rate Subordinated Step-up Callable Notes 2017 1,500m b, k 1,444 1,106 6.05% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2017 US$2,250m a 1,856 1,125 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2018 40m b 38 29 6% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes due 2018 1,750m a 1,767 CMS-Linked Subordinated Notes due 2018 100m b 100 CMS-Linked Subordinated Notes due 2018 135m b 135 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2019 50m b 47 36 Callable Fixed Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2019 1,000m i 984 761 9.5% Subordinated Bonds 2021 ex-Woolwich plc a 298 282 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2021 100m b 94 72 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2022 50m b 49 37 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2023 50m b 48 37 Fixed Floating Rate Subordinated Callable Notes 2023 o, k 571 505 5.75% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2026 a 690 600 5.4% Reverse Dual Currency Subordinated Loan 2027 Yen 15,000m j 128 71 6.33% Subordinated Notes 2032 a 53 49 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2040 100m b 96 73 Barclays Bank SA, Spain Barclays Spain Subordinated Floating Rate Capital Notes 2011 11m b 11 10 Absa 14.25% Subordinated Callable Notes 2014 ZAR 3,100m c, k 240 253 10.75% Subordinated Callable Notes 2015 ZAR 1,100m d, k 85 87 Subordinated Callable Notes 2015 ZAR 400m e, k 30 29 8.75% Subordinated Callable Notes 2017 ZAR 1,500m f, k 115 111 Subordinated Callable Notes 2018 ZAR 3,700m e, k 144 8.8% Subordinated Fixed Rate Callable Notes 2019 ZAR 1,725m p, k 146 123 8.1% Subordinated Callable Notes 2020 ZAR 2,000m g, k 130 138 Barclays Bank of Ghana Ltd BBG 14% Fixed Rate BBG Subordinated Callable Notes 2016 GHC 100,000m a, k 5 5 Barclays Bank of Kenya Barclays Kenya Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2014 KES 2,965m q 26 8 Dated loan capital non-convertible 16,134 11,494 | 230 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:32 Page 231 27 Subordinated liabilities continued 2008 2007 Notes m m Convertible Barclays Bank of Botswana BBB Subordinated Unsecured Floating Rate Capital Notes 2014 BWP 190m k, l 17 8 Barclays Bank Zambia PLC Barclays Zambia Subordinated Unsecured Floating Rate Capital Notes 2015 ZMK 49,086m k, m 7 6 Absa Redeemable cumulative option-holding preference shares ZAR 147m n 11 11 Total convertible 35 25 None of the Groups dated loan capital is secured.
The debt obligations of the Bank, Barclays Spain, BBG, BBB, Barclays Zambia, Barclays Kenya and Absa rank ahead of the interests of holders of their equity.
Dated loan capital of the Bank, Barclays Spain, BBG, BBB, Barclays Zambia, Barclays Kenya and Absa has been issued on the basis that the claims there under are subordinated to the respective claims of their depositors and other unsecured unsubordinated creditors.
Interest Notes a The interest rates on these Notes are fixed for the life of those issues.
b These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on London or European interbank rates.
c These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2009.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the coupon will be reset to a fixed margin over a reference rate for a further period of five years.
d These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2010.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on Johannesburg interbank acceptance rates.
e These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on Johannesburg interbank acceptance rates.
f These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2012.
g These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2015.
h These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2012.
i These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2014.
3 j This Loan bears a fixed rate of interest based on a US Dollar principal amount, but the interest payments have been swapped, resulting in a Yen interest rate payable which is fixed periodically in advance based on London interbank rates.
k Repayable at the option of the issuer, prior to maturity, on conditions governing the respective debt obligations, some in whole or in part, and some only in whole.
l These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on the Bank of Botswana Certificate Rate.
All of these Notes will be compulsorily converted to Preference Shares of BBB, having a total par value equal in sum to the principal amount of Notes outstanding at the time of conversion, should BBB experience pre-tax losses in excess of its retained earnings and other capital surplus accounts.
m These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on the Bank of Zambia Treasury Bill rate.
All of these Notes will be compulsorily converted to Preference Shares of Barclays Zambia, having a total par value equal in sum to the principal amount of Notes outstanding at the time of conversion, should Barclays Zambia experience pre-tax losses in excess of its retained earnings and other capital surplus accounts.
n The dividends are compounded and payable semi-annually in arrears on 30th September and 31st March of each year.
The shares were issued by Absa Group Limited on 1st July 2004 and the redemption dates commence on the first business day after the third anniversary of the date of issue of the redeemable preference shares and ending on the fifth anniversary of the date of issue.
Such exercise and notice will be deemed to be effective only on the option exercise dates, being 1st March, 1st June, 1st September or 1st December of each year.
The shares are convertible into ordinary shares at the option of the preference shareholders on the redemption dates in lots of 100. o These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2018.
After that date in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on London interbank rates.
p These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2014.
q These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on the Central Bank of Kenya Treasury Bill rates.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 231 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:32 Page 232 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 27 Subordinated liabilities continued The 7.4% Subordinated Notes 2009 the 7.4% Notes issued by the Bank have been registered under the US Securities Act of 1933.
All other issues of dated loan capital by the Bank, Barclays Spain, BBG, BBB, Barclays Zambia, Barclays Kenya and Absa, which were made in non-US markets, have not been so registered.
With respect to the 7.4% Notes, the Bank is not obliged to make i a payment of interest on any interest payment date unless a dividend is paid on any class of share capital and ii a payment of principal until six months after the respective maturity date with respect to such Notes.
Repayment terms Unless otherwise indicated, the Groups dated loan capital outstanding at 31st December 2008 is redeemable only on maturity, subject in particular cases, to provisions allowing an early redemption in the event of certain changes in tax law or, in the case of BBB and Barclays Zambia to certain changes in legislation or regulations.
Any repayments prior to maturity require in the case of the Bank, the prior notification to the FSA, in the case of BBB, the prior approval of the Bank of Botswana, in the case of Barclays Zambia, the prior approval of the Bank of Zambia, and in the case of Absa, the prior approval of the South African Registrar of Banks.
There are no committed facilities in existence at the balance sheet date which permit the refinancing of debt beyond the date of maturity.
28 Provisions Undrawn contractually committed facilities Redundancy and Onerous and reguarantees Sundry contracts structuring provided provisions Total m m m m m At 1st January 2008 64 82 475 209 830 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries 9 9 1 1 Exchange 2 63 15 80 Additions 12 269 461 102 844 Amounts used 41 213 794 42 1,090 Unused amounts reversed 11 96 25 132 Amortisation of discount 4 4 At 31st December 2008 50 118 109 258 535 At 1st January 2007 71 102 46 243 462 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries 1 2 74 73 Exchange 85 13 Additions 18 117 560 121 816 Amounts used 25 117 113 60 315 Unused amounts reversed 5 18 26 174 223 Amortisation of discount 4 4 At 31st December 2007 64 82 475 209 830 Provisions expected to be recovered or settled within no more than 12 months after 31st December 2008 were 333m 2007: 645m.
Sundry provisions are made with respect to commission clawbacks, warranties and litigation claims.
There were no undrawn contractually committed facilities and guarantees provided against undrawn facilities on ABS CDO Super Senior positions 2007: 360m.
| 232 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:32 Page 233 29 Securitisations The Group was party to securitisation transactions involving Barclays residential mortgage loans, business loans and credit card balances.
In addition, the Group acts as a conduit for commercial paper, whereby it acquires static pools of residential mortgage loans from other lending institutions for securitisation transactions.
In these transactions, the assets, or interests in the assets, or beneficial interests in the cash flows arising from the assets, are transferred to a special purpose entity, or to a trust which then transfers its beneficial interests to a special purpose entity, which then issues floating rate debt securities to third-party investors.
Securitisations may, depending on the individual arrangement result in continued recognition of the securitised assets and the recognition of the debt securities issued in the transaction: lead to partial continued recognition of the assets to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement in those assets or to derecognition of the assets and the separate recognition, as assets or liabilities, of any rights and obligations created or retained in the transfer.
Full derecognition only occurs when the Group transfers both its contractual right to receive cash flows from the financial assets, or retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to another party without material delay or reinvestment, and also transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, including credit risk, prepayment risk and interest rate risk.
The following table shows the carrying amount of securitised assets, stated at the amount of the Groups continuing involvement where appropriate, together with the associated liabilities, for each category of asset in the balance sheet: 2008 2007 Carrying Carrying amount of Associated amount of Associated assets liabilities assets liabilities m m m m Loans and advances to customers Residential mortgage loans 12,754 13,172 16,000 16,786 Credit card receivables 1,888 2,109 4,217 3,895 Other personal lending 212 256 422 485 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 7,702 8,937 8,493 8,070 Total 22,556 24,474 29,132 29,236 Assets designated at fair value through profit or loss Retained interest in residential mortgage loans 316 895 Retained interests in residential mortgage loans are securities which represent a continuing exposure to the prepayment and credit risk in the underlying securitised assets.
The total amount of the loans was 31,734m 2007: 23,097m.
The retained interest is initially recorded as an allocation of the original carrying amount based on the relative fair values of the portion derecognised and the portion retained.
3 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 233 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:32 Page 234 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 30 Retirement benefit obligations Pension schemes The UK Retirement Fund UKRF, which is the main scheme of the Group, amounting to 91% of all the Groups schemes in terms of benefit obligations, comprises ten sections.
The 1964 Pension Scheme Most employees recruited before July 1997 are members of this non-contributory defined benefit scheme.
Pensions are calculated by reference to service and pensionable salary and are normally subject to a deduction from State pension age.
The Retirement Investment Scheme RIS A defined contribution plan for most joiners between July 1997 and 1st October 2003.
This was closed to new entrants on 1st October 2003 and the large majority of existing members of the RIS transferred to afterwork in respect of future benefit accrual with effect from 1st January 2004.
There are now no longer any active members of the RIS.
The Pension Investment Plan PIP A defined contribution plan created from 1st July 2001 to provide benefits for certain employees of Barclays Capital.
afterwork Combines a contributory cash balance element with a voluntary defined contribution element.
New employees since 1st October 2003 are eligible to join afterwork.
In addition, the large majority of active members of the RIS now closed were transferred to afterwork in respect of future benefit accrual after 1st January 2004.
Career Average Section The Career Average Section was established in the UKRF with effect from 1st May 2004 following the transfer of members from the Woolwich Pension Fund.
The Career Average Section is a non-contributory career average scheme and was closed to new entrants on 1st December 2006.
1951 Fund Section, AP89 Section, BCPS Section, CCS Section and Mercantile Section Five new sections were established in the UKRF with effect from 31st March 2007 following the merger of the UKRF with five smaller schemes sponsored from within the Group.
All five sections are closed to new members.
The 1951 Fund Section, AP89 Section and Mercantile Section provide final salary benefits calculated by reference to service and pensionable salary.
The BCPS and CCS Sections provide defined contribution benefits.
The benefits built up in these sections in relation to service before 6th April 1997 are subject to a defined benefit minimum.
In addition, the costs of ill-health retirements and death in service benefits are generally borne by the UKRF for each of the ten sections.
From November 2008, members were given the option to pay member contributions by way of salary sacrifice.
Governance The assets of the UKRF are held separately from the assets of the Group and are administered by trustees.
Barclays Pension Fund Trustees Ltd BPFTL acts as corporate trustee for the UKRF.
BPFTL is a private limited company, incorporated on 20th December 1990, and is a subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC.
As the corporate trustee for the UKRF, BPFTL is the legal owner of the assets of the UKRF and BPFTL holds these assets in trust for the beneficiaries of the scheme.
BPFTL comprises nine Directors, of which six are Employer Directors selected by the Bank and three are Employee Directors nominated by the Pension Fund Advisory Committee PFAC.
Employee Directors are selected from those eligible active employees and pensioner members who apply to be considered for the role.
Employee Director vacancies are advertised to all eligible active and pensioner members.
This enables any eligible member with an interest in becoming an Employee Director to express that interest and be considered for the role.
The PFAC provides the mechanism through which Employee Directors are selected.
The PFAC will accept nominations from eligible members and select from amongst all properly nominated candidates.
There are also three Alternate Employer Directors and three Alternate Employee Directors.
The selection process for these appointments are as detailed above.
The role of alternate directors is to provide cover for individual directors, should they not be available for meetings.
Under the Pensions Act 2004 the Bank and the Trustee must agree on the funding rate including a recovery plan to fund any deficit against the scheme specific statutory funding objective.
The first ongoing funding valuation to be completed under this legislation had an effective date of 30th September 2007.
In addition to the UKRF, there are other defined benefit and defined contribution schemes in the UK and overseas.
The same approach to pensions governance applies to the other schemes in the UK but different legislation covers schemes outside of the UK where in most cases the Bank has the power to determine the funding rate.
| 234 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:32 Page 235 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued The following tables present an analysis of defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for all the Groups pension schemes and post-retirement benefits the latter are unfunded and present the amounts recognised in the income statement including those related to post-retirement health care.
Income statement charge 2008 2007 2006 Other postOther postOther postretirement retirement retirement Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total m m m m m m m m m Staff cost charge Current service cost 299 2 301 332 2 334 378 21 399 Interest cost 991 8 999 905 8 913 900 8 908 Expected return on scheme assets 1,175 1,175 1,074 1,074 999 999 Recognised actuarial gain loss 23 1 24 1 1 31 4 Past service cost 2 8 6 20 20 29 29 Curtailment or settlements 5 5 32 32 29 29 Total included in staff costs 89 1 90 150 10 160 282 30 312 Staff costs are included in other operating expenses.
Change in benefit obligation 2008 2007 Post-retirement Post-retirement Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas m m m m m m m m m m Benefit obligation at beginning of the year 16,563 913 60 98 17,634 17,256 894 97 76 18,323 Current service cost 276 23 2 301 317 15 1 1 334 Interest cost 946 45 3 5 999 869 36 4 4 913 Past service cost 2 11 7 6 20 20 Curtailments or settlements 7 2 9 35 1 36 Actuarial gain loss 2,807 11 5 2,813 1,292 25 19 1 1,337 Contributions by plan participants 20 3 23 19 2 21 Benefits paid 598 42 2 9 651 589 31 2 15 637 3 Business combinations Exchange and other adjustments 269 24 293 2 23 21 33 33 Benefit obligation at end of the year 14,395 1,220 43 125 15,783 16,563 913 60 98 17,634 The benefit obligation arises from plans that are wholly unfunded and wholly or partly funded as follows: 2008 2007 m m Unfunded obligations 297 248 Wholly or partly funded obligations 15,486 17,386 Total 15,783 17,634 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 235 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:32 Page 236 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued Change in plan assets 2008 2007 Post-retirement Post-retirement Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas m m m m m m m m m m Fair value of plan assets at beginning of the year 17,231 796 18,027 16,761 745 17,506 Expected return on plan assets 1,134 41 1,175 1,041 33 1,074 Employer contribution 336 71 2 9 418 355 34 2 15 406 Settlements 2 2 1 1 Contributions by plan participants 20 3 23 19 2 21 Actuarial loss 4,534 121 4,655 332 11 343 Benefits paid 598 42 2 9 651 589 31 2 15 637 Business combinations Exchange and other adjustments 52 213 161 24 25 1 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 13,537 959 14,496 17,231 796 18,027 Amounts recognised on balance sheet The pension and post-retirement benefit assets and liabilities recognised on the balance sheet are as follows: 2008 2007 Post-retirement Post-retirement Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas m m m m m m m m m m Benefit obligation at end of period 14,395 1,220 43 125 15,783 16,563 913 60 98 17,634 Fair value of plan assets at end of period 13,537 959 14,496 17,231 796 18,027 Net deficit asset 858 261 43 125 1,287 668 117 60 98 393 Unrecognised actuarial gains losses 167 150 11 23 5 1,912 7 3 14 1,894 Net recognised liability 1,025 111 54 102 1,292 1,244 110 63 84 1,501 Recognised assets 65 65 36 36 Recognised liability 1,025 176 54 102 1,357 1,244 146 63 84 1,537 Net recognised liability 1,025 111 54 102 1,292 1,244 110 63 84 1,501 The UKRF funded status, as measured using the IAS 19 assumptions, has decreased from a 0.7bn surplus at 31st December 2007 to a deficit of 0.9bn at 31st December 2008.
The assumptions used for the current year and prior year are detailed below.
Among the reasons for this change were the large loss on the assets over the year and, to a lesser extent, a strengthening of the allowance made for future improvements in mortality.
Offsetting these were the increase in AA long-term corporate bond yields which resulted in a higher discount rate of 6.75% 31st December 2007: 5.82%, a decrease in the inflation assumption to 3.16% 31st December 2007: 3.45% and contributions paid.
Assumptions Obligations arising under defined benefit schemes are actuarially valued using the projected unit credit method.
Under this method, where a defined benefit scheme is closed to new members, such as in the case of the 1964 Pension Scheme, the current service cost expressed as a percentage of salary is expected to increase in the future, although this higher rate will be applied to a decreasing payroll.
The latest actuarial IAS valuations were carried out as at 31st December using the following assumptions: UK schemes Overseas schemes 2008 2007 2008 2007 % p. a.
Discount rate 6.75 5.82 7.09 7.51 Rate of increase in salaries 3.66 3.95 5.93 5.60 Inflation rate 3.16 3.45 3.98 4.13 Rate of increase for pensions in payment 3.06 3.45 3.17 3.55 Rate of increase for pensions in deferment 3.16 3.30 4.37 2.50 Initial health care inflation 8.00 8.00 9.00 10.00 Long-term health care inflation 5.00 5.00 5.01 5.01 Expected return on plan assets 6.80 6.70 7.95 7.84 | 236 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:32 Page 237 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued Assumptions continued The expected return on plan assets assumption is weighted on the basis of the fair value of these assets.
Health care inflation assumptions are weighted on the basis of the health care cost for the period.
All other assumptions are weighted on the basis of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the period.
The UK Schemes discount rate assumption is based on a liability-weighted rate derived from a AA corporate bond yield curve.
The overseas health care inflation assumptions relate to the US and Mauritius.
Mortality assumptions The post-retirement mortality assumptions used in valuing the liabilities of the UKRF were based on the standard 2000 series tables as published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
These tables are considered to be most relevant to the population of the UKRF based on their mortality history.
These were then adjusted in line with the actual experience of the UKRFs own pensioners relative to the standard table.
An allowance has been made for future mortality improvements based on the medium cohort projections published by the CMIB subject to a floor of 1% pa on future improvements.
On this basis the post-retirement mortality assumptions for the UKRF includes: 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Longevity at 60 for current pensioners years Males 27.4 26.7 25.8 25.8 25.7 Females 28.5 27.9 29.5 29.5 29.4 Longevity at 60 for future pensioners currently aged 40 years Males 29.5 28.0 27.1 27.1 27.0 Females 30.5 29.1 30.7 30.6 30.6 Sensitivity analysis Sensitivity analysis for each of the principal assumptions used to measure the benefit obligation of the UKRF are as follows: Impact on UKRF benefit obligation Decrease Decrease Increase Increase % bn 0.5% increase to: Discount rate 8.5 1.2 Rate of inflation 8.8 1.3 Rate of salary growth 1.0 0.2 1 year increase to longevity at 60 2.5 0.4 3 Post-retirement health care A one percentage point change in assumed health care trend rates, assuming all other assumptions remain constant would have the following effects for 2008: 1% increase 1% decrease m m Effect on total of service and interest cost components 1 1 Effect on post-retirement benefit obligation 17 14 Assets A long-term strategy has been set for the asset allocation of the UKRF which comprises a mixture of equities, bonds, property and other appropriate assets.
This recognises that different asset classes are likely to produce different long-term returns and some asset classes may be more volatile than others.
The long-term strategy ensures that investments are adequately diversified.
Asset managers are permitted some flexibility to vary the asset allocation from the long-term strategy within control ranges agreed with the trustee from time to time.
The UKRF also employs derivative instruments, where appropriate, to achieve a desired exposure or return, or to match assets more closely to liabilities.
The value of assets shown below reflects the actual physical assets held by the scheme, with any derivative holdings reflected on a mark to market basis.
The expected return on asset assumptions, both for individual asset classes and overall, have been based on the portfolio of assets created after allowing for the net impact of the derivatives on the risk and return profile of the holdings.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 237 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:32 Page 238 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued Assets continued The value of the assets of the schemes, their percentage in relation to total scheme assets, and their expected rate of return at 31st December 2008 and 31st December 2007 were as follows: 2008 UK schemes Overseas schemes Total % of Expected % of Expected % of Expected total fair rate total fair rate total fair rate value of of value of of value of of Value scheme return Value scheme return Value scheme return m assets % m assets % m assets % Equities 5,813 43 8.5 217 23 9.3 6,030 42 8.5 Bonds 6,360 47 5.3 166 17 6.2 6,526 45 5.3 Property 1,214 9 7.2 16 2 13.4 1,230 87.3 Derivatives 420 3 420 3 Cash 131 1 2.0 415 43 7.6 284 2 3.9 Other 701 5 7.4 145 15 6.4 846 6 7.2 a Fair value of plan assets 13,537 100 6.8 959 100 8.0 14,496 100 6.9 2007 UK schemes Overseas schemes Total % of Expected % of Expected % of Expected total fair rate total fair rate total fair rate value of of value of of value of of Value scheme return Value scheme return Value scheme return m assets % m assets % m assets % Equities 7,467 43 8.3 441 55 8.4 7,908 44 8.3 Bonds 7,445 43 5.1 300 38 7.6 7,745 43 5.2 Property 1,712 10 7.0 16 2 11.5 1,728 10 7.0 Derivatives 12 12 Cash 284 2 5.1 42 5 5.6 326 1 5.2 Other 335 2 5.3 3 332 2 5.4 a Fair value of plan assets 17,231 100 6.7 796 100 7.8 18,027 100 6.8 The UKRF plan assets include 27m relating to UK private equity investments 2007: 39m and 735m relating to overseas private equity investments 2007: 664m.
These are disclosed within Equities.
Amounts included in the fair value of plan assets include 5m 2007: 6m relating to shares in Barclays Group, 11m 2007: 6m relating to bonds issued by the Barclays Group, nil 2007: nil relating to other investments in the Barclays Group, and 17m 2007: 10m relating to property occupied by Group companies.
The expected return on assets is determined by calculating a total return estimate based on weighted average estimated returns for each asset class.
Asset class returns are estimated using current and projected economic and market factors such as inflation, credit spreads and equity risk premiums.
The Group actual return on plan assets was a decrease of 3,480m 2007: 731m increase.
Note a Excludes 675m 2007: 782m representing the money purchase assets of the UKRF.
| 238 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:32 Page 239 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued Actuarial gains and losses The actuarial gains and losses arising on plan liabilities and plan assets are as follows: UK schemes 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 m m m m m Present value of obligations 14,438 16,623 17,353 18,252 15,574 Fair value of plan assets 13,537 17,231 16,761 15,571 13,261 Net deficit surplus in the plans 901 608 592 2,681 2,313 Experience gains and losses on plan liabilities amount 81 297 48 2 16 as percentage of plan liabilities 1% 2% Difference between actual and expected return on plan assets amount 4,534 332 423 1,599 570 as percentage of plan assets 33% 2% 3% 10% 4% Overseas schemes 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 m m m m m Present value of obligations 1,345 1,011 970 1,017 587 Fair value of plan assets 959 796 745 819 436 Net deficit surplus in the plans 386 215 225 198 151 Experience losses on plan liabilities amount 96 79 54 2 31 as percentage of plan liabilities 7% 8% 6% 5% Difference between actual and expected return on plan assets amount 121 11 25 29 as percentage of plan assets 13% 3% 2% Total UK and Overseas schemes 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 m m m m m Present value of obligations 15,783 17,634 18,323 19,269 16,161 3 Fair value of plan assets 14,496 18,027 17,506 16,390 13,697 Net deficit surplus in the plans 1,287 393 817 2,879 2,464 Experience losses on plan liabilities amount 177 376 6 4 15 as percentage of plan liabilities 1% 2% Difference between actual and expected return on plan assets amount 4,655 343 448 1,601 579 as percentage of plan assets 32% 2% 3% 10% 4% Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 239 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:32 Page 240 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued Funding The most recent triennial funding valuation of the UK Retirement Fund was performed with an effective date of 30th September 2007.
In compliance with the Pensions Act 2004, the Group and Trustee have agreed a scheme specific funding target, statement of funding principles, and a schedule of contributions.
This agreement forms the basis of the Groups commitment that the fund has sufficient assets to make payments to members in respect of their accrued benefits as and when they fall due.
This funding valution uses a discount rate that reflects a prudent expectation of long-term future investment returns from the current and assumed future investment stategy, and takes into account projected future salary increases when assessing liabilities arising from accrued service.
As at 30th September 2007 the funding valuation showed a surplus of 0.2bn.
The Scheme Actuary prepares an annual update of the funding position as at 30th September.
The first annual update was carried out as at 30th September 2008 and showed a deficit of 2.2bn.
The Group has agreed funding contributions which, in aggregate, are no less than those which are sufficient to meet the Groups share of the cost of benefits accruing over each year.
The Group has, in the recent past, chosen to make funding contributions in excess of this, more consistent with the IAS service cost.
Defined benefit contributions paid with respect to the UKRF were as follows: m Contributions paid 2008 336 2007 355 2006 351 Excluding the UKRF, the Group is expected to pay contributions of approximately 2m to UK schemes and 53m to overseas schemes in 2009.
The total contribution to be paid in 2009 to the UKRF is not expected to be significantly different than in previous years.
31 Ordinary shares, share premium, and other equity Ordinary shares and share premium Number of Ordinary Share shares shares premium Total m m m m At 1st January 2008 6,601 1,651 56 1,707 Issued to staff under the Sharesave Share Option Scheme 31 13 14 a Issued under the Incentive Share Option Plan 1 33 a Issued to staff under the Share Incentive Plan 1 22 Issue of new ordinary shares 1,803 451 3,971 4,422 Repurchase of shares 37 10 10 At 31st December 2008 8,372 2,093 4,045 6,138 At 1st January 2007 6,535 1,634 5,818 7,452 Issued to staff under the Sharesave Share Option Scheme 19 6 62 68 Issued under the Incentive Share Option Plan 10 2 40 42 b Issued under the Executive Share Option Scheme 11 b Issued under the Woolwich Executive Share Option Plan 11 Transfer to retained earnings 7,223 7,223 Issue of new ordinary shares 337 84 1,357 1,441 Repurchase of shares 300 75 75 At 31st December 2007 6,601 1,651 56 1,707 Note a The nominal value for share options issued during 2008 for the Incentive Share Option Plan and Share Incentive Plan was less than 500,000 in each case.
b The nominal value for share options issued during 2007 for the Executive Share Option Scheme and Woolwich Executive Share Option Plan was less than 500,000 in each case.
| 240 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:32 Page 241 31 Ordinary shares, share premium, and other equity continued The authorised share capital of Barclays PLC is 3,540m, $77.5m, 40m and 4,000m.
31st December 2007: 2,500m comprising 13,996 million 31st December 2007: 9,996 million ordinary shares of 25p each, 0.4 million Sterling preference shares of 100 each, 0.4 million US Dollar preference shares of $100 each, 150 million US Dollar preference shares of $0.25 each, 0.4 million Euro preference shares of 100 each, 0.4 million Yen preference shares of 10,000 each and 1 million 31st December 2007: 1 million staff shares of 1 each.
Called up share capital, allotted and fully paid 2008 2007 m m Ordinary shares: At beginning of year 1,650 1,633 Issued to staff under the Sharesave Share Option Scheme 1 6 Issued under the Incentive Share Option Plan 2 Issue of new ordinary shares 451 84 Repurchase of shares 9 75 At end of year 2,093 1,650 Staff shares: At beginning of year 1 1 Repurchase of shares 1 At end of year 1 Total 2,093 1,651 Issue of new ordinary shares During the year, the following share issues took place: On 4th July 2008, Barclays PLC raised approximately 500m before issue costs through the issue of 168.9 million new ordinary shares at 2.96 per share in a firm placing to Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation.
On 22nd July 2008, Barclays PLC raised approximately 3,969m before issue costs through the issue of 1,407.4 million new ordinary shares at 2.82 per share in a placing to Qatar Investment Authority, Challenger Universal Limited a company representing the beneficial interests of His Excellency Sheikh Hamad Bin Jassim Bin Jabr Al-Thani, the Chairman of Qatar Holding LLC, and his family, China Development Bank, Temasek Holdings Private Limited and certain leading institutional shareholders and other investors, which shares were available for clawback in full by means of an open offer to existing shareholders.
Valid applications under the open offer were received from qualifying shareholders in respect of approximately 267 million new ordinary shares in aggregate, representing 19.0 per cent.
of the shares offered pursuant to the open offer.
Accordingly, the remaining 1,140.3 million shares were allocated to the various investors with whom they had been conditionally placed.
On 18th September 2008, Barclays PLC raised approximately 701m before issue costs through the issue of 226 million new ordinary shares at 3.10 per 3 share to certain institutional investors.
The proceeds of the issuance, in excess of the nominal value and issue costs, of 634m were credited to retained earnings.
This resulted from the operation of section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 with regard to the issue of shares by Barclays PLC in exchange for shares in Long Island Investments Jersey No.
1 Limited and the subsequent redemption of redeemable preference shares of that company for cash.
During the period from 27th November 2008 to 31st December 2008, 33,000 ordinary shares have been issued following conversion of Mandatorily Convertible Notes see below at the option of their holders.
Share repurchase During the year Barclays PLC purchased in the market 36 million of its own ordinary shares of 25p each at a total cost of 173m.
These transactions represent less than 0.5% of the issued share capital at 31st December 2008.
These shares purchased during the period were open market transactions.
Barclays PLC purchased all of its staff shares in issue, following approval for such purchase being given at the 2008 Annual General Meeting, at a total cost of 1m.
At the 2008 AGM on 24th April, Barclays PLC was authorised to repurchase 984,960,000 of its ordinary shares of 25p.
The authorisation is effective until the AGM in 2009.
Cancellation of share premium account On 11th October 2007, the order of the High Court confirming the cancellation of 7,223m of the share premium account was registered with the Registrar of Companies.
This created 7,223m of additional distributable reserves in Barclays PLC.
The purpose of the cancellation of the share premium account was to create distributable profits in order to allow the payment of dividends following the completion of the share buy-back programme, the redemption of the preference shares which were to have been issued in connection with the proposed merger with ABN AMRO, and to provide maximum flexibility to manage the Groups capital resources.
Warrants On 31st October 2008 Barclays PLC issued, in conjunction with a simultaneous issue of Reserve Capital Instruments, warrants to subscribe for up to 1516.9 million new ordinary shares at a price of 1.97775 to Qatar Holding and HH Sheikh Mansour Bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
A fair value of 800m before transaction costs of 24m was attributed to the warrants, which may be exercised at any time up to close of business 31st October 2013.
The fair value net of transaction costs of the warrants have been included in retained earnings see Note 32.
Shares under option The Group has four schemes that give employees rights to subscribe for new shares in Barclays PLC.
A summary of the key terms of each scheme are included in Note 45.
At 31st December 2008, 94.1 million 2007: 74.0 million options were outstanding under the terms of the Sharesave Share Option Scheme Sharesave, 0.5 million 2007: 1.4 million options were outstanding under the terms of the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS, 0.4 million 2007: 0.5 million options were outstanding under the terms of the Woolwich Executive Share Option Plan Woolwich ESOP and 20.5 million 2007: 20.5 million options were outstanding under the terms of the Incentive Share Option Plan ISOP, enabling certain Directors and members of staff to subscribe for ordinary shares between 2008 and 2016 at prices ranging from 144p to 551p.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 241 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:32 Page 242 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 31 Ordinary shares, share premium, and other equity continued In addition to the above, the independent trustee of the Barclays Group ESAS Employees Benefit Trust ESAS Trust, established by Barclays Bank PLC in 1996, operates the Executive Share Award Scheme ESAS.
ESAS is a deferred share bonus plan for employees of the Group.
The key terms of the ESAS are described in Note 45.
The independent trustees of the ESAS Trust make awards of Barclays shares and grant options over Barclays shares to beneficiaries of the ESAS Trust.
Beneficiaries of the ESAS Trust include employees and former employees of the Barclays Group.
The independent trustee of the Barclays Group PSP and ESOS Employees Benefit Trust PSP Trust, established by Barclays Bank PLC in 1996, operates the Performance Share Plan PSP and may satisfy awards under the ESOS.
No awards have been made under this trust since 1999.
All awards are in the form of options over Barclays shares.
The Sharepurchase scheme which was established in 2002 is open to all eligible UK employees, including executive Directors.
The key terms of the Sharepurchase scheme are described in Note 45.
Other equity Mandatorily Convertible Notes On 27th November 2008, Barclays Bank PLC issued 4,050m of 9.75% Mandatorily Convertible Notes MCNs maturing on 30th September 2009 to Qatar Holding LLC, Challenger Universal Limited and entities representing the beneficial interests of HH Sheikh Mansour Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, a member of the Royal Family of Abu Dhabi and existing institutional shareholders and other institutional investors.
If not converted at the holders option beforehand, these instruments mandatorily convert to ordinary shares of Barclays PLC on 30th June 2009.
The conversion price is 1.53276, and, after taking into account MCNs that were converted on or before 31st December 2008, will result in the issue of 2,642 million new ordinary shares.
Following conversion the relevant amounts will be credited to share capital and share premium.
Of the proceeds of the MCNs, 233m has been included in the Groups liabilities, being the fair value of the coupon before issue costs at the date of issue.
The remaining proceeds are included in other equity and will be transferred to share capital and share premium on conversion in both the Barclays PLC Group and Company.
32 Reserves Other reserves Barclays PLC Group Capital Other Available Cash flow Currency redemption capital for sale hedging translation reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m m m At 1st January 2008 384 617 154 26 307 874 Net losses gains from changes in fair value 1,736 252 1,484 Net gains losses transferred to net profit 212 19 193 Currency translation differences 2,307 2,307 Losses transferred to net profit due to impairment 382 382 Changes in insurance liabilities 17 17 Net gains transferred to net profit due to fair value hedging 2 2 Tax 207 165 840 882 Repurchase of shares 10 10 At 31st December 2008 394 617 1,190 132 2,840 2,793 Capital Other Available Cash flow Currency redemption capital for sale hedging translation reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m m m At 1st January 2007 309 617 132 230 438 390 Net gains from changes in fair value 480 182 662 Net gains losses transferred to net profit 560 198 362 Currency translation differences 29 29 Losses transferred to net profit due to impairment 13 13 Changes in insurance liabilities 22 22 Net losses transferred to net profit due to fair value hedging 68 68 Tax 1 124 102 23 Repurchase of shares 75 75 At 31st December 2007 384 617 154 26 307 874 The capital redemption reserve and other capital reserve represent transfers from retained earnings in accordance with relevant legislation.
These reserves are not distributable.
The available for sale reserve represents the unrealised change in the fair value of available for sale investments since initial recognition.
The cash flow hedging reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses on effective cash flow hedging instruments that will be recycled to the income statement when the hedged transactions affect profit or loss.
The currency translation reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses on the retranslation of the Groups net investment in foreign operations, net of the effects of hedging.
Transfers from cash flow hedging reserve Gains and losses transferred from the cash flow hedging reserve were to: interest income: 4m loss 2007: 93m, interest expense: 74m loss 2007: 11m gain, net trading income: 119m gain 2007: 100m loss, and administration and general expenses: 60m loss 2007: 16m loss.
| 242 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:32 Page 243 32 Reserves continued Retained earnings and treasury shares Barclays PLC Group Retained Treasury earnings shares Total m m m At 1st January 2008 20,970 260 20,710 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 4,382 4,382 Equity-settled share schemes 463 463 Tax on equity-settled share schemes 4 4 Other taxes 52 52 Net purchases of treasury shares 350 350 Transfer 437 437 Dividends paid 2,344 2,344 Repurchase of shares 173 173 Arising on share issue 634 634 Issue of warrants 776 776 Other 7 7 At 31st December 2008 24,208 173 24,035 At 1st January 2007 12,169 212 11,957 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 4,417 4,417 Equity-settled share schemes 567 567 Tax on equity-settled share schemes 28 28 Net purchases of treasury shares 572 572 Transfer 524 524 Dividends paid 2,079 2,079 Repurchase of shares 1,802 1,802 Transfer from share premium account 7,223 7,223 Arising on share issue 941 941 Other 30 30 At 31st December 2007 20,970 260 20,710 The Treasury shares primarily relate to Barclays PLC shares held by employee benefit trusts in relation to the Executive Share Award Scheme, Performance Share Plan and Sharepurchase Scheme, to the extent that such shares have not been allocated to employees.
These schemes are described in Note 45.
The total number of Barclays shares held in Group employee benefit trusts at 31st December 2008 was 217.9 million 2007: 211.4 million.
Dividend rights have been waived on nil 2007: nil of these shares.
The total market value of the shares held in trust based on the year-end share price of 1.53 2007: 5.04 was 333m 2007: 1,065m.
As at 31st December 2008, options over 19.1 million 2007: 16.6 million of the total shares held in the trusts 3 were exercisable.
The Group operates in a number of countries subject to regulations under which a local subsidiary has to maintain a minimum level of capital.
The current policy of the Group is that local capital requirements are met, as far as possible, by the retention of profit.
Certain countries operate exchange control regulations which limit the amount of dividends that can be remitted to non-resident shareholders.
It is not possible to determine the amount of profit retained and other reserves that are restricted by these regulations, but the net profit retained of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures at 31st December 2008 totalled 4,581m 2007: 7,311m.
If such overseas reserves were to be remitted, other tax liabilities, which have not been provided for in the accounts, might arise.
Retained earnings Barclays PLC Parent company Capital Retained redemption earnings reserve Total m m m At 1st January 2008 8,990 384 9,374 Profit after tax 1,193 1,193 Dividends paid 2,414 2,414 Arising on share issue 634 634 Repurchase of shares 173 10 163 Issue of warrants 776 776 At 31st December 2008 9,006 394 9,400 At 1st January 2007 1,468 309 1,777 Profit after tax 3,289 3,289 Dividends paid 2,129 2,129 Transfer from share premium account 7,223 7,223 Arising on share issue 941 941 Repurchase of shares 1,802 75 1,727 At 31st December 2007 8,990 384 9,374 Details of principal subsidiaries held through Barclays Bank PLC are shown in Note 41.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 243 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:32 Page 244 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 33 Minority interests 2008 2007 m m At beginning of year 9,185 7,591 Share of profit after tax 905 678 Dividend and other payments 703 480 Equity issued by subsidiaries 1,349 1,381 Available for sale reserve: net loss gain from changes in fair value 1 1 Cash flow hedges: net gain loss from changes in fair value 76 16 Currency translation differences 100 25 Additions 27 Disposals 11 111 Other 107 89 At end of year 10,793 9,185 During the year, Barclays Bank PLC issued the following Preference Shares: 106 million Preference Shares of nominal US$0.25 each Principal amount: US$2,650m: 1,345m with a 8.125% dividend issued on 11th April 2008 and 25th April 2008.
34 Contingent liabilities and commitments Contingent liabilities and commitments The following table summarises the nominal principal amount of contingent liabilities and commitments with off-balance sheet risk: 2008 2007 m m Acceptances and endorsements 585 365 Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security 15,652 12,973 Securities lending arrangements 38,290 22,719 Other contingent liabilities 11,783 9,717 Contingent liabilities 66,310 45,774 Documentary credits and other short-term trade related transactions 859 522 Undrawn note issuance and revolving underwriting facilities: Forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 291 283 Standby facilities, credit lines and other 259,666 191,834 Commitments 260,816 192,639 Nature of instruments In common with other banks, the Group conducts business involving acceptances, performance bonds and indemnities.
The majority of these facilities are offset by corresponding obligations of third parties.
An acceptance is an undertaking by a bank to pay a bill of exchange drawn on a customer.
The Group expects most acceptances to be presented, but reimbursement by the customer is normally immediate.
Endorsements are residual liabilities of the Group in respect of bills of exchange, which have been paid and subsequently rediscounted.
Guarantees and letters of credit are given as security to support the performance of a customer to third parties.
As the Group will only be required to meet these obligations in the event of the customers default, the cash requirements of these instruments are expected to be considerably below their nominal amounts.
The Group facilitates securities lending arrangements for its investment management clients whereby securities held by funds are lent to third parties.
The borrowers provide the funds with collateral in the form of cash or other assets equal to at least 100% of the securities lent plus a margin of at least 2% up to 8%.
Over the period of the loan, the funds may make margin calls to the extent that the collateral is less than the market value of the securities lent.
Amounts disclosed above represent the total market value of the lent securities at 31st December 2008.
The market value of collateral held by the funds was 39,690m 2007: 23,559m.
| 244 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:32 Page 245 34 Contingent liabilities and commitments continued Other contingent liabilities include transaction related customs and performance bonds and are, generally, short-term commitments to third parties which are not directly dependent on the customers creditworthiness.
Commitments to lend are agreements to lend to a customer in the future, subject to certain conditions.
Such commitments are either made for a fixed period, or have no specific maturity but are cancellable by the lender subject to notice requirements.
Documentary credits commit the Group to make payments to third parties, on production of documents, which are usually reimbursed immediately by customers.
Capital commitments At 31st December 2008 the commitments for capital expenditure under contract amounted to 48m 2007: 6m.
Assets pledged Assets are pledged as collateral to secure liabilities under repurchase agreements, securitisations and stock lending agreements or as security deposits relating to derivatives.
The disclosure includes any asset transfers associated with liabilities under repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions.
The following table summarises the nature and carrying amount of the assets pledged as security against these liabilities: 2008 2007 m m Trading portfolio assets 81,186 76,226 Loans and advances 28,789 32,846 Available for sale investments 32,321 16,378 Other 3,812 580 Assets pledged 146,108 126,030 Collateral held as security for assets Under certain transactions, including reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing transactions, the Group is allowed to resell or repledge the collateral held.
The fair value at the balance sheet date of collateral accepted and repledged to others was as follows: 2008 2007 m m Fair value of securities accepted as collateral 424,819 343,986 Of which fair value of securities repledged transferred to others 374,222 269,157 3 35 Legal proceedings Barclays has for some time been party to proceedings, including a class action, in the United States against a number of defendants following the collapse of Enron: the class action claim is commonly known as the Newby litigation.
On 20th July 2006 Barclays received an Order from the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas Houston Division which dismissed the claims against Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Capital Inc. in the Newby litigation.
On 4th December 2006 the Court stayed Barclays dismissal from the proceedings and allowed the plaintiffs to file a supplemental complaint.
On 19th March 2007 the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit issued its decision on an appeal by Barclays and two other financial institutions contesting a ruling by the District Court allowing the Newby litigation to proceed as a class action.
The Court of Appeals held that because no proper claim against Barclays and the other financial institutions had been alleged by the plaintiffs, the case could not proceed against them.
The plaintiffs applied to the United States Supreme Court for a review of this decision.
On 22nd January 2008, the United States Supreme Court denied the plaintiffs request for review.
Following the Supreme Courts decision, the District Court ordered a further briefing concerning the status of the plaintiffs claims.
Barclays is seeking the dismissal of the plaintiffs claims.
Barclays considers that the Enron related claims against it are without merit and is defending them vigorously.
It is not possible to estimate Barclays possible loss in relation to these matters, nor the effect that they might have upon operating results in any particular financial period.
Like other UK financial services institutions, the Group faces numerous County Court claims and complaints by customers who allege that its unauthorised overdraft charges either contravene the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 UTCCR or are unenforceable penalties or both.
In July 2007, by agreement with all parties, the OFT commenced proceedings against seven banks and one building society, including Barclays, to resolve the matter by way of a test case process.
Preliminary issues hearings took place in January, July and December 2008 with judgments handed down in April and October 2008 and January 2009 a further judgment not concerning Barclays terms.
As to current terms, in April 2008 the Court held in favour of the banks on the issue of the penalty doctrine.
The OFT did not appeal that decision.
In the same judgment the Court held in favour of the OFT on the issue of the applicability of the UTCCR.
The banks appealed that decision.
As to past terms, in a judgment on 8th October 2008, the Court held that Barclays historic terms, including those of Woolwich, were not capable of being penalties.
The OFT indicated at the January 2009 hearing that it was not seeking permission to appeal the Courts findings in relation to the applicability of the penalty doctrine to historic terms.
Accordingly, it is now clear that no declarations have or will be made against Barclays that any of its unauthorised overdraft terms assessed in the test case constitute unenforceable penalties and that the OFT will not pursue this aspect of the test case further.
The proceedings will now concentrate exclusively on UTCCR issues.
The banks appeal against the decision in relation to the applicability of the UTCCR to current and historic terms took place at a hearing in late October 2008.
On 26th February 2009 the Court of Appeal dismissed the banks appeal, holding, in a judgment of broad application, that the relevant charges were not exempt from the UTCCR.
The banks will petition the House of Lords for leave to appeal the decision.
It is likely that the proceedings will still take a significant period of time to conclude.
Pending resolution of the test case process, existing and new claims in the County Courts remain stayed, and there is an FSA waiver of the complaints handling process which is reviewable in July 2009 and a standstill of Financial Ombudsman Service decisions.
The Group is defending the test case vigorously.
It is not practicable to estimate the Groups possible loss in relation to these matters, nor the effect that they may have upon operating results in any particular financial period.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 245 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 246 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 35 Legal proceedings continued Barclays is engaged in various other litigation proceedings both in the United Kingdom and a number of overseas jurisdictions, including the United States, involving claims by and against it which arise in the ordinary course of business.
Barclays does not expect the ultimate resolution of any of the proceedings to which Barclays is party to have a significant adverse effect on the financial position of the Group and Barclays has not disclosed the contingent liabilities associated with these claims either because they cannot reasonably be estimated or because such disclosure could be prejudicial to the conduct of the claims.
36 Competition and regulatory matters The scale of regulatory change remains challenging, arising in part from the implementation of some key European Union EU directives.
Many changes to financial services legislation and regulation have come into force in recent years and further changes will take place in the near future.
Concurrently, there is continuing political and regulatory scrutiny of the operation of the retail banking and consumer credit industries in the UK and elsewhere.
The nature and impact of future changes in policies and regulatory action are not predictable and beyond the Groups control but could have an impact on the Groups businesses and earnings.
In September 2005, the Office of Fair Trading OFT received a super-complaint from the Citizens Advice Bureau relating to payment protection insurance PPI.
As a result, the OFT commenced a market study on PPI in April 2006.
In October 2006 the OFT announced the outcome of the market study and the OFT referred the PPI market to the UK Competition Commission CC for an in-depth inquiry in February 2007.
In June 2008, the CC published its provisional findings.
The CC published its final report into the PPI market on 29th January 2009.
The CCs conclusion is that the businesses which offer PPI alongside credit face little or no competition when selling PPI to their credit customers.
The CC has set out a package of measures which it considers will introduce competition into the market the Remedies.
The Remedies, which are expected to be implemented following consultation in 2010, are: a ban on sale of PPI at the point of sale: a prohibition on the sale of single premium PPI: mandatory personal PPI quotes to customers: annual statements for all regular premium policies, including the back book for example credit card and mortgage protection policies : measures to ensure that improved information is available to customers: obliging providers to give information to the OFT to monitor the Remedies and to provide claims ratios to any person on request.
Barclays is reviewing the report and considering the next steps, including how this might affect the Groups different products.
In October 2006, the FSA published the outcome of its broad industry thematic review of PPI sales practices in which it concluded that some firms fail to treat customers fairly and that the FSA would strengthen its actions against such firms.
Tackling poor PPI sales practices remains a priority for the FSA, with their most recent update on their thematic work published in September 2008.
Barclays voluntarily complied with the FSAs request to cease selling single premium PPI by the end of January 2009.
There has been no enforcement action against Barclays in respect of its PPI products.
The Group has cooperated fully with these investigations into PPI and will continue to do so.
The OFT has carried out investigations into Visa and MasterCard credit card interchange rates.
The decision by the OFT in the MasterCard interchange case was set aside by the Competition Appeals Tribunal in June 2006.
The OFT is progressing its investigations in the Visa interchange case and a second MasterCard interchange case in parallel and both are ongoing.
The outcome is not known but these investigations may have an impact on the consumer credit industry in general and therefore on the Groups business in this sector.
In February 2007 the OFT announced that it was expanding its investigation into interchange rates to include debit cards.
In September 2006, the OFT announced that it had decided to undertake a fact find on the application of its statement on credit card fees to current account unauthorised overdraft fees.
The fact find was completed in March 2007.
On 29th March 2007, the OFT announced its decision to conduct a formal investigation into the fairness of bank current account charges.
The OFT initiated a market study into personal current accounts PCAs in the UK on 26th April 2007.
The studys focus was PCAs but it also included an examination of other retail banking products, in particular savings accounts, credit cards, personal loans and mortgages in order to take into account the competitive dynamics of UK retail banking.
On 16th July 2008, the OFT published its market study report, in which it concluded that certain features of the UK PCA market were not working well for consumers.
The OFT reached the provisional view that some form of regulatory intervention is necessary in the UK PCA market.
On 16th July 2008, the OFT also announced a consultation to seek views on the findings and possible measures to address the issues raised in its report.
The consultation period closed on 31st October 2008.
The Group has participated fully in the market study process and will continue to do so.
US laws and regulations require compliance with US economic sanctions, administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, against designated foreign countries, nationals and others.
HM Treasury regulations similarly require compliance with sanctions adopted by the UK government.
The Group has been conducting an internal review of its conduct with respect to US Dollar payments involving countries, persons and entities subject to these sanctions and has been reporting to governmental authorities about the results of that review.
The Group received inquiries relating to these sanctions and certain US Dollar payments processed by its New York branch from the New York County District Attorneys Office and the US Department of Justice, which along with other authorities, has been reported to be conducting investigations of sanctions compliance by non-US financial institutions.
The Group has responded to those inquiries and is cooperating with the regulators, the Department of Justice and the District Attorneys Office in connection with their investigations of Barclays conduct with respect to sanctions compliance.
Barclays has also received a formal notice of investigation from the FSA, and has been keeping the FSA informed of the progress of the US investigations and Barclays internal review.
It is currently not possible to predict the ultimate resolution of the issues covered by Barclays review and the investigations, including the timing and potential financial impact of any resolution, which could be substantial.
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme provides compensation to customers of financial institutions in the event that an institution is unable, or is likely to be unable, to pay claims against it.
During the year, a number of institutions, including Bradford & Bingley plc, Heritable Bank plc, Kaupthing Singer & Friedlander Limited, Landsbanki Icesave, and London Scottish Bank plc, were declared in default by the FSA.
In order to meet its obligations to the depositors of these institutions, the FSCS has borrowed 19.7 billion from HM Treasury, which is on an interest only basis until September 2011.
These borrowings are anticipated to be repaid wholly or substantially from the realisation of the assets of the above named institutions.
The FSCS raises annual levies from the banking industry to meet its management expenses and compensation costs.
Individual institutions make payments based on their level of market participation in the case of deposits, the proportion that their protected deposits represent of total market protected deposits at 31st December each year.
If an institution is a market participant on this date it is obligated to pay a levy.
Barclays Bank PLC was a market participant at 31st December 2007 and 2008.
The Group has accrued 101m for its share of levies that will be raised by the FSCS including the interest on the loan from HM Treasury in respect of the levy years to 31st March 2010.
The accrual includes estimates for the interest FSCS will pay on the loan and estimates of Barclays market participation in the relevant periods.
Interest will continue to accrue on the HM Treasury loan to the FSCS until September 2011 and will form part of future FSCS management expenses levies.
If the assets of the defaulting institutions are insufficient to repay the HM Treasury loan in 2011, the FSCS will agree a schedule of repayments with HM Treasury, which will be recouped from the industry in the form of additional levies.
At the date of these financial statements, it is not possible to estimate whether there will ultimately be additional levies on the industry, the level of Barclays market participation or other factors that may affect the amounts or timing of amounts that may ultimately become payable, nor the effect that such levies may have upon operating results in any particular financial period.
| 246 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 247 37 Leasing The Group is both lessor and lessee under finance and operating leases, providing asset financing for its customers and leasing assets for its own use.
In addition, assets leased by the Group may be sublet to other parties.
An analysis of the impact of these transactions on the Group balance sheet and income statement is as follows: a As Lessor Finance lease receivables The Group specialises in asset-based lending and works with a broad range of international technology, industrial equipment and commercial companies to provide customised finance programmes to assist manufacturers, dealers and distributors of assets.
Finance lease receivables are included within loans and advances to customers.
The Groups net investment in finance lease receivables was as follows: 2008 2007 Gross Present value of Gross Present value of investment in Future minimum lease Unguaranteed investment in Future minimum lease Unguaranteed finance lease finance payments residual finance lease finance payments residual receivables income receivable values receivables income receivable values m m m m m m m m Not more than one year 3,929 689 3,240 149 3,657 780 2,877 213 Over one year but not more than five years 8,668 1,673 6,995 355 7,385 1,613 5,772 374 Over five years 3,419 768 2,651 25 3,476 935 2,541 14 Total 16,016 3,130 12,886 529 14,518 3,328 11,190 601 The allowance for uncollectable finance lease receivables included in the allowance for impairment amounted to 189m at 31st December 2008 2007: 113m.
Operating lease receivables The Group acts as lessor, whereby items of plant and equipment are purchased and then leased to third parties under arrangements qualifying as operating leases.
The items purchased to satisfy these leases are treated as plant and equipment in the Groups financial statements and are generally disposed of at the end of the lease term see Note 23.
The future minimum lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable operating leases at 31st December 2008 were as follows: 2008 2007 Plant and Plant and equipment equipment m m 3 Not more than one year 80 29 Over one year but not more than two years 42 24 Over two years but not more than three years 36 22 Over three years but not more than four years 24 20 Over four years but not more than five years 13 11 Over five years 39 10 Total 234 116 b As Lessee Finance lease commitments The Group leases items of property, plant and equipment on terms that meet the definition of finance leases.
Finance lease commitments are included within other liabilities see Note 25.
Obligations under finance leases were as follows: 2008 2007 Total future Total future minimum minimum payments payments m m Not more than one year 35 12 Over one year but not more than two years 13 14 Over two years but not more than three years 14 13 Over three years but not more than four years 17 12 Over four years but not more than five years 14 15 Over five years 3 17 Net obligations under finance leases 96 83 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 247 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 248 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 37 Leasing continued The carrying amount of assets held under finance leases at the balance sheet date was: 2008 2007 m m Cost 87 94 Accumulated depreciation 67 24 Net book value 20 70 Operating lease commitments The Group leases various offices, branches and other premises under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements.
The leases have various terms, escalation and renewal rights.
There are no contingent rents payable.
The Group also leases equipment under non-cancellable lease arrangements.
Where the Group is the lessee the future minimum lease payment under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2008 2007 Property Equipment Property Equipment m m m m Not more than one year 275 5 191 6 Over one year but not more than two years 354 1 396 1 Over two years but not more than three years 334 1 357 1 Over three years but not more than four years 315 323 Over four years but not more than five years 465 5 287 Over five years 2,744 1 2,225 Total 4,487 13 3,779 8 The total of future minimum sublease payments to be received under non-cancellable subleases at the balance sheet date is 158m 2007: 167m.
38 Disposals The Group made the following material disposals in 2008: % Disposal Date Barclays Life Assurance Limited 100 31 10 08 2008 m Total disposal consideration 762 Costs associated with disposal 33 Net assets disposed 403 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries 326 Total disposal consideration 762 Costs associated with disposal 7 Repayment of loan on disposal 386 Cash and cash equivalents disposed of 131 Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 238 Cash received in respect of disposal of ownership in BGI UK Holdings Limited through the exercise of options under the BGI EOP scheme 19 Decrease in investment in subsidiaries 19 | 248 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 249 39 Acquisitions The Group made the following material acquisitions in 2008: Acquisition Gains on date acquisitions Goodwill m m Lehman Brothers North American businesses a 22nd September 2008 2,262 Macquarie Bank Limited residential mortgage businesses b 6th November 2008 52 Goldfish credit card UK businesses b 31st March 2008 92 Expobank 100% of ordinary shares c 1st July 2008 243 Gains on acquisitions 2,406 a Lehman Brothers North American businesses On 22nd September 2008, the Group completed the acquisition of Lehman Brothers North American businesses.
The assets and liabilities of Lehman Brothers North American businesses after the acquisition, details of the purchase price and the gain on acquisition arising were as follows: Fair values m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 861 Trading portfolio assets 23,837 Loans and advances to customers 3,642 Available-for-sale financial investments 1,948 Other assets 41 a Intangible assets 888 Property, plant and equipment 886 Deferred tax asset 229 Total assets 32,332 Liabilities Customer accounts 2,459 3 Derivative financial instruments 599 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 24,409 Other liabilities 1,049 Deferred tax liabilities 517 Total liabilities 29,033 Net assets acquired excludes Obligation to be settled in shares 3,299 b Obligation to be settled in shares 163 Acquisition cost Cash paid 834 Attributable costs 40 Total consideration 874 Gain on acquisition 2,262 The acquired assets and liabilities summarised in the table above do not represent the entire balance sheet of Lehman Brothers North American businesses, or of discrete business lines within those operations.
For this reason it is not practical to reliably determine the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities in the pre-acquisition books and records of Lehman Brothers.
Notes a Intangible assets included an amount of 636m relating to customer lists.
b Under the terms of the acquisition, the Group assumed an obligation to make payments to employees of the acquired business in respect of their pre-acquisition service provided to Lehman Brothers.
This amount represents the equity-settled portion of that obligation and is recognised as a component of shareholders equity.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 249 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 250 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 39 Acquisitions continued Certain assets were received subsequent to the acquisition date, since it was first necessary to agree their status as assets of the Group with the relevant regulators, custodians, trustees, exchanges and bankruptcy courts.
Such assets were initially classified within loans and advances.
Once they were received, the related receivable was derecognised and the resulting asset recognised within the appropriate balance sheet category.
In the table such assets are classified accordingly.
The initial accounting for the acquisition has been determined only provisionally.
Any revisions to fair values that result from the conclusion of the acquisition process with respect to assets not yet received by the Group will be recognised as an adjustment to the initial accounting.
Any such revisions must be effected within 12 months of the acquisition date and would result in a restatement of the 2008 income statement and balance sheet.
The excess of the fair value of net assets acquired over consideration paid resulted in 2,262m of gain on acquisition.
It is impracticable to disclose the profit or loss of the acquired Lehman Brothers North American businesses since the acquisition date.
The acquired business has been integrated into the corresponding existing business lines and there is no reliable basis for allocating post-acquisition results between the acquirer and the acquiree.
Similarly, it is impracticable to disclose the revenue and profit or loss of the combined entity as though the acquisition date had been 1st January 2008.
Only parts of Lehman Brothers US and Canadian businesses, and specified assets and liabilities, were acquired.
There is no reliable basis for identifying the proportion of the pre-acquisition results of Lehman Brothers that relates to the business acquired by the Group.
b Macquarie Bank Limited Italian residential mortgage businesses and Goldfish credit card UK businesses On 6th November 2008, the Group purchased the Italian residential mortgage businesses of Macquarie Bank Limited.
On 31st March 2008, the Group completed the acquisition of Discovers UK credit card businesses, Goldfish.
The assets and liabilities of Macquarie Bank Limited Italian residential mortgage businesses and Goldfish credit card UK businesses before and after the acquisition, details of the purchase price and gains on acquisitions arising were as follows: Macquarie Bank businesses Goldfish credit card UK businesses Carrying Carrying value preFair value Fair value preFair value Fair acquisition adjustments values acquisition adjustments values m m m m m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 3 3 172 172 Loans and advances to banks 8 8 Loans and advances to customers 833 20 813 1,900 34 1,866 Other assets 39 1 38 Intangible assets 32 32 Property, plant and equipment 1 1 39 1 40 Deferred tax asset 12 12 Total assets 837 20 817 2,158 10 2,168 Liabilities Longand short-term borrowings 1,974 1,974 Other liabilities 55 55 Deferred tax liabilities 9 9 Total liabilities 2,029 92,038 Net assets acquired 837 20 817 129 1 130 Acquisition cost Cash paid 765 35 Attributable costs 3 Total consideration 765 38 Gains on acquisitions 52 92 The contribution to the consolidated profit before tax of the acquired businesses in the table above for the period from the acquisition date to 31st December 2008 is 1m loss for Macquarie Bank Limited businesses and 40m profit for the Goldfish credit card UK businesses.
The excess remaining after the reassessment of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities which has been recognised within the consolidated income statement as a gain on acquisition is 52m for Macquarie Bank Limited businesses and 92m for Goldfish credit card UK businesses.
| 250 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 251 39 Acquisitions continued c Expobank On 1st July 2008, the Group acquired 100% of the ordinary shares of Expobank, a Russian bank.
The assets and liabilities of the Russian bank, Expobank before and after the acquisition, details of the purchase price and the goodwill arising were as follows: Carrying value preFair value Fair acquisition adjustments values m m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 73 73 Trading portfolio assets 52 52 Loans and advances to customers 446 5 451 Other assets 9 9 Intangible assets 45 45 Property, plant and equipment 28 28 Total assets 608 50 658 Liabilities Deposits from banks 71 71 Customer accounts 318 318 Debt securities in issue 103 103 Other liabilities 16 16 Total liabilities 508 508 Net assets acquired 100 50 150 Goodwill 243 Total 393 Acquisition cost Cash paid 386 Attributable costs 7 Total consideration 393 3 The excess of proceeds over the net assets acquired has generated goodwill of 243m and is attributable to the operational synergies and earnings potential expected to be realised over the longer term.
The results of the businesss operations have been included from 1st July 2008 and contributed 13m loss to the consolidated profit before tax.
Cash outflows in respect of acquisitions The aggregate net outflow of cash from the acquisition of the above Group businesses and entities was as follows: 2008 m Cash consideration on acquisitions 2,070 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 1,109 Cash outflow on acquisition 961 Cash paid in respect of acquisition of shares in Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited 157 Increase in investment in subsidiaries 157 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 251 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 252 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 40 Investment in subsidiaries The investment in Barclays Bank PLC is stated in the balance sheet of Barclays PLC at a cost of 15,340m 2007: 10,186m.
The increase of 5,154m 2007: 1,545m during the year represents the cost of additional shares of 16m 2007: 111m, capital contributions of 4,362m 2007: 1,434m, and a non-cash capital contribution of 776m.
The investment in Barclays Investments Netherlands N. V. was liquidated in September 2008.
The investment was stated in the balance sheet of Barclays PLC at a cost of 205m in 2007.
The investment in Odysseus Jersey No.
1 Limited was liquidated in September 2008.
The investment was stated in the balance sheet of Barclays PLC at a cost of 0.1m in 2007.
41 Principal subsidiaries Percentage of equity Country of registration capital held or incorporation Company name Nature of business % Botswana Barclays Bank of Botswana Limited Banking 74.9 Egypt Barclays Bank Egypt SAE Banking 100 England Barclays Bank PLC Banking, holding company 100 England Barclays Mercantile Business Finance Limited Loans and advances including leases to customers 100 England Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited Holding company 95.5 England Barclays Global Investors Limited Investment management 95.5 England Barclays Bank Trust Company Limited Banking, securities industries and trust services 100 England Barclays Stockbrokers Limited Stockbroking 100 England Barclays Capital Securities Limited Securities dealing 100 England Barclays Global Investors Pensions Management Limited Investment management 95.5 England FIRSTPLUS Financial Group PLC Secured loan provider 100 England Gerrard Investment Management Limited Investment management 100 Ghana Barclays Bank of Ghana Limited Banking 100 Ireland Barclays Insurance Dublin Limited Insurance provider 100 Ireland Barclays Assurance Dublin Limited Insurance provider 100 a Isle of Man Barclays Private Clients International Limited Banking 100 Japan Barclays Capital Japan Limited Securities dealing 100 Jersey Barclays Private Bank & Trust Limited Banking, trust company 100 Kenya Barclays Bank of Kenya Limited Banking 68.5 Russia Barclays Bank LLC Banking 100 South Africa Absa Group Limited Banking 58.6 Spain Barclays Bank SA Banking 99.7 Switzerland Barclays Bank Suisse S. A.
Banking and trust services 100 USA Barclays Capital Inc. Securities dealing 100 USA Barclays Financial Corporation Holding company for US credit card issuer 100 USA Barclays Global Investors, National Association Investment management and securities industry 95.5 USA Barclays Group USA Inc. Holding company 100 Zimbabwe Barclays Bank of Zimbabwe Limited Banking 67.8 In accordance with Section 231 5 of the Companies Act 1985, the above information is provided solely in relation to principal subsidiaries.
The country of registration or incorporation is also the principal area of operation of each of the above subsidiaries.
Investments in these subsidiaries are held directly by Barclays Bank PLC except where marked.
Full information of all subsidiaries will be included in the Annual Return to be filed at Companies House.
Note a BBPLC is the beneficial owner of 38.1% of shares and Barclays Holdings Isle of Man Limited is the beneficial owner of 61.9% of shares.
| 252 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 253 42 Other entities There are a number of entities that do not qualify as subsidiaries under UK Law but which are consolidated when the substance of the relationship between the Group and the entity usually a Special Purpose Entity SPE indicates that the entity is controlled by the Group.
Such entities are deemed to be controlled by the Group when relationships with such entities gives rise to benefits that are in substance no different from those that would arise were the entity a subsidiary.
The consolidation of such entities may be appropriate in a number of situations, but primarily when: the operating and financial policies of the entity are closely defined from the outset i. e. it operates on an autopilot basis with such policies being largely determined by the Group: the Group has rights to obtain the majority of the benefits of the entity and or retains the majority of the residual or ownership risks related to the entity: or the activities of the entity are being conducted largely on behalf of the Group according to its specific business objectives.
Such entities are created for a variety of purposes including securitisation, structuring, asset realisation, intermediation and management.
Entities may have a different reporting date from that of the parent of 31st December.
Dates may differ for a variety of reasons including local reporting regulations or tax laws.
In accordance with our accounting policies, for the purpose of inclusion in the consolidated financial statements of Barclays PLC, entities with different reporting dates are made up until 31st December.
Entities may have restrictions placed on their ability to transfer funds, including payment of dividends and repayment of loans, to their parent entity.
Reasons for the restrictions include: Central bank restrictions relating to local exchange control laws.
Central bank capital adequacy requirements.
Company law restrictions relating to treatment of the entities as going concerns.
Although the Groups interest in the equity voting rights in certain entities exceeds 50%, or it may have the power to appoint a majority of their Boards of Directors, they are excluded from consolidation because the Group either does not direct the financial and operating policies of these entities, or on the grounds that another entity has a superior economic interest in them.
Consequently, these entities are not deemed to be controlled by Barclays.
The table below includes information in relation to such entities as required by the Companies Act 1985, Section 231 5.
Equity Retained Percentage of shareloss ordinary share holders for the Country of registration capital held funds year or incorporation Name % m m UK Oak Dedicated Limited 100 4 1 UK Oak Dedicated Two Limited 100 4 UK Oak Dedicated Three Limited 100 1 3 UK Fitzroy Finance Limited 100 Cayman Islands St James Fleet Investments Two Limited 100 2 Cayman Islands BNY BT NewCo Limited Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 253 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 254 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 43 Related party transactions and Directors remuneration a Related party transactions Parties are considered to be related if one party has the ability to control the other party or exercise significant influence over the other party in making financial or operation decisions, or one other party controls both.
The definition includes subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and the Groups pension schemes, as well as other persons.
Subsidiaries Transactions between Barclays PLC and subsidiaries also meet the definition of related party transactions.
Where these are eliminated on consolidation, they are not disclosed in the Group financial statements.
Transactions between Barclays PLC and its subsidiary, Barclays Bank PLC are fully disclosed directly in its balance sheet and income statement.
A list of the Groups principal subsidiaries is shown in Note 41.
Associates, joint ventures and other entities The Group provides banking services to its associates, joint ventures, the Group pension funds principally the UK Retirement Fund and to entities under common directorships, providing loans, overdrafts, interest and non-interest bearing deposits and current accounts to these entities as well as other services.
Group companies, principally within Barclays Global Investors, also provide investment management and custodian services to the Group pension schemes.
The Group also provides banking services for unit trusts and investment funds managed by Group companies and are not individually material.
All of these transactions are conducted on the same terms as third-party transactions.
Amounts included in the accounts, in aggregate, by category of related party entity are as follows: For the year ended and as at 31st December 2008 Pension Entities funds unit under trusts and Joint common investment Associates ventures directorships funds Total m m m m m Income statement: Interest received 105 3 108 Interest paid 73 73 Fees received for services rendered including investment management and custody and commissions 15 5 20 Fees paid for services provided 44 146 190 Principal transactions 8 59 60 25 102 Assets: Loans and advances to banks and customers 110 954 34 1,098 Derivative transactions 9 311 15 335 Other assets 67 276 3 346 Liabilities: Deposits from banks 592 592 Customer accounts 167 74 10 251 Derivative transactions 111 41 152 Other liabilities 3 18 28 49 | 254 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 255 43 Related party transactions and Directors remuneration continued a For the year ended and as at 31st December 2007 Pension Entities funds unit under trusts and Joint common investment Associates ventures directorships funds Total m m m m m Income statement: Interest received 5 88 1 94 Interest paid 1 58 1 60 Fees received for services rendered including investment management and custody and commissions 1 34 26 61 Fees paid for services provided 52 78 130 Principal transactions 27 45 16 2 Assets: Loans and advances to banks and customers 142 1,285 40 1,467 Derivative transactions 4 36 40 Other assets 213 106 14 333 Liabilities: Deposits from banks 11 11 Customer accounts 61 33 12 106 Derivative transactions 10 50 60 Other liabilities 4 125 129 a For the year ended and as at 31st December 2006 Pension Entities funds unit under trusts and Joint common investment Associates ventures directorships funds Total m m m m m Income statement: Interest received 45 38 2 85 Interest paid 31 57 88 Fees received for services rendered including investment management and custody and commissions 14 7 28 49 3 Fees paid for services provided 115 51 1 167 Principal transactions 3 2 1 Assets: Loans and advances to banks and customers 784 146 65 995 Derivative transactions Other assets 19 3 17 39 Liabilities: Deposits from banks 9 3 12 Customer accounts 19 18 5 34 76 Derivative transactions 2 2 Other liabilities 13 8 21 No guarantees, pledges or commitments have been given or received in respect of these transactions in 2008, 2007 or 2006.
Derivatives transacted on behalf of the Pensions Funds Unit Trusts and Investment Funds amounted to 318m 2007: 22m, 2006: 1,209m.
In 2008 Barclays paid 12m 2007: 18m of its charitable donations through the Charities Aid Foundation, a registered charitable organisation, in which a Director of the Company is a Trustee.
Note a The amounts reported in prior periods have been restated to reflect new related parties.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 255 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 256 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 43 Related party transactions and Directors remuneration continued Key Management Personnel The Groups Key Management Personnel, and persons connected with them, are also considered to be related parties for disclosure purposes.
Key Management Personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of Barclays PLC directly or indirectly and comprise the Directors of Barclays PLC and the Officers of the Group, certain direct reports of the Group Chief Executive and the heads of major business units.
In the ordinary course of business, the Bank makes loans to companies where a Director or other member of Key Management Personnel or any connected person is also a Director or other member of Key Management Personnel or any connected person of Barclays.
There were no material related party transactions with companies where a Director or other member of Key Management Personnel or any connected person is also a Director or other member of Key Management Personnel or any connected person of Barclays.
The Group provides banking services to Directors and other Key Management Personnel and persons connected to them.
Transactions during the year and the balances outstanding at 31st December 2008 were as follows: Directors, other Key Management Personnel and connected persons 2008 2007 2006 m m m Loans outstanding at 1st January 7.4 7.8 7.4 Loans issued during the year 6.9 2.7 2.7 Loan repayments during the year 5.5 3.2 2.3 Loans outstanding at 31st December 8.8 7.3 7.8 Interest income earned 0.4 0.4 0.3 No allowances for impairment were recognised in respect of loans to Directors or other members of Key Management Personnel or any connected person in 2008, 2007 or 2006.
2008 2007 2006 m m m Deposits outstanding at 1st January 8.9 15.0 4.7 Deposits received during the year 235.7 114.4 105.2 Deposits repaid during the year 221.9 115.0 94.8 Deposits outstanding at 31st December 22.7 14.4 15.1 Interest expense on deposits 0.5 0.6 0.2 Of the loans outstanding above, 1.6m 2007: nil, 2006: nil relates to Directors and other Key Management Personnel and persons connected to them that left the Group during the year.
Of the deposits outstanding above, 6.1m 2007: 2.8m, 2006: 0.1m related to Directors and other Key Management Personnel and persons connected to them that left the Group during the year.
All loans are provided on normal commercial terms to Directors and other Key Management Personnel and persons connected to them, with the exception of692 of loans which are provided on an interest free basis.
The loans of 692 provided on an interest free basis relate to the granting of loans to one non-Director member of Barclays key management to purchase commuter rail tickets.
The commuter rail ticket loans are still provided to all Barclays staff members upon request on the same terms.
All loans to Directors and other key management personnel a were made in the ordinary course of business, b were made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the same time for comparable transactions with other persons and c did not involve more than a normal risk of collectability or present other unfavourable features.
| 256 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 257 43 Related party transactions and Directors remuneration continued Remuneration of Directors and other Key Management Personnel Directors, other Key Management Personnel and connected persons 2008 2007 2006 m m m Salaries and other short-term benefits 10.7 23.7 34.2 Pension costs 0.9 1.1 0.8 Other long-term benefits 1.6 9.2 9.3 Termination benefits 1.4 Share-based payments 11.8 31.7 27.2 Employer social security charges on emoluments 2.7 7.8 10.0 27.7 73.5 82.9 b Disclosure required by the Companies Act 1985 The following information is presented in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: Directors remuneration 2008 2007 m m Aggregate emoluments 6.0 29.2 Gains made on the exercise of share options 0.3 Amounts paid under long-term incentive schemes 7.4 Actual pension contributions to money purchase scheme 2008: one Director, 11,745 and 2007: one Director, 10,233 Notional pension contributions to money purchase scheme 2008: no Directors and 2007: no Directors 13.4 29.5 As at 31st December 2008, two Directors were accruing retirement benefits under a defined benefit scheme 2007: three Directors.
One Director Frits Seegers agreed to waive his fees as non-executive Director of Absa Group Limited and Absa Bank Limited.
In both 2007 and 2008 the fees were paid to Barclays.
Directors and Officers shareholdings and options The beneficial ownership of the ordinary share capital of Barclays PLC by all Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC involving 20 persons and Barclays Bank PLC involving 21 persons at 31st December 2008 amounted to 8,036,962 ordinary shares of 25p each 0.10% of the ordinary share capital outstanding and 8,037,498 ordinary shares of 25p each 0.10% of the ordinary share capital outstanding, respectively.
3 Executive Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC as a group involving 8 persons held, at 31st December 2008, options to purchase 2,185,380 Barclays PLC ordinary shares of 25p each at prices ranging from 255p to 510p under Sharesave and at 397p under the Executive Share Option Scheme and ranging from 317p to 534p under the Incentive Share Option Plan, respectively.
Contracts with Directors and their connected persons and Managers The aggregate amounts outstanding at 31st December 2008 under transactions, arrangements and agreements made by banking companies within the Group for persons who are, or were during the year, Directors of Barclays PLC and persons connected with them, as defined in the Companies Act 2006, and for Managers, within the meaning of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, of Barclays Bank PLC were: Number of Number of Directors or connected Amount Managers persons m Directors Loans 11 6.1 Quasi-loans and credit card accounts 81 Managers Loans 3 n a 14.0 Quasi-loans and credit card accounts 7 n a c US disclosures For US disclosure purposes, the aggregate emoluments of all Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC who held office during the year 2008: 24 persons, 2007: 22 persons, 2006: 24 persons for the year ended 31st December 2008 amounted to 26.8m 2007: 64.6m, 2006: 72.1m.
In addition, the aggregate amount set aside for the year ended 31st December 2008, to provide pension benefits for the Directors and Officers amounted to 0.9m 2007: 1.1m, 2006: 0.8m.
The aggregate emoluments of all Directors and Officers of Barclays Bank PLC who held office during the year 2008: 25 persons, 2007: 23 persons, 2006: 25 persons for the year ended 31st December 2008 amounted to 26.9m, 2007: 64.9m and 2006: 72.2m.
In addition, the aggregate amount set aside by the Bank and its subsidiaries for the year ended 31st December 2008, to provide pension benefits for the Directors and Officers amounted to 0.9m 2007: 1.1m, 2006: 0.8m.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 257 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 258 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 44 Events after the balance sheet date On 2nd February 2009, Barclays completed the acquisition of PT Bank Akita, which was announced initially on 17th September 2008, following the approval of the Central Bank of Indonesia.
On 17th February 2009, Barclays announced that Barclays Capital will discontinue operations at its Equifirst subsidiary due to the market environment and strategic direction of the Group.
45 Share-based payments The Group operates share schemes for employees throughout the world.
The main current schemes are: Sharesave Eligible employees in the UK, Spain and Ireland may participate in the Barclays Sharesave scheme.
Under this scheme, employees may enter into contracts to save up to 250 per month Ireland: 500, Spain: 135 and, at the expiry of a fixed term of three, five or seven years Spain: three years, have the option to use these savings to acquire shares in the Company at a discount, calculated in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
The discount is currently 20% of the market price at the date the options are granted.
Participants in the scheme have six months from the date of vest in which the option can be exercised.
Sharepurchase Sharepurchase was introduced in January 2002.
It is an HM Revenue & Customs approved all-employee share plan.
The plan is open to all eligible UK employees, including executive Directors.
Under the plan, participants are able to purchase up to 1,500 worth of Barclays PLC ordinary shares per tax year, which, if kept in trust for five years, can be withdrawn from the plan tax-free.
Matching shares were introduced to the scheme during 2005 where the purchase of Barclays shares by the participant are matched equally by the Company up to a value of 600 per tax year.
Any shares in the plan will earn dividends in the form of additional shares, which must normally be held by the trustee for three years before being eligible for release.
Executive Share Award Scheme ESAS For certain employees of the Group an element of their annual bonus is in the form of a deferred award of a provisional allocation of Barclays PLC shares under ESAS.
The total value of the bonus made to the employee of which ESAS is an element is dependent upon the business unit, Group and individual employee performance.
The ESAS element of the annual bonus must normally be held for at least three years.
Additional bonus shares are subsequently awarded to recipients of the provisional allocation and vest upon achieving continued service for three and five years from the date of award.
ESAS awards are also made to eligible employees for recruitment purposes.
All awards are subject to potential forfeit if the individual resigns and commences work with a competitor business.
Performance Share Plan PSP The Performance Share Plan PSP was approved by shareholders at the 2005 AGM to replace the ISOP scheme.
Performance shares are free Barclays shares for which no exercise price is payable and which qualify for dividends.
Performance share awards are communicated to participants as an initial allocation.
Barclays performance over a three-year period determines the final number of shares that may be released to participants.
Incentive Share Plan Incentive Shares The Incentive Share Plan Incentive Shares was introduced in March 2008.
Incentive Shares are granted to participants in the form of a provisional allocation of Barclays shares which vest upon achieving continued service after three years.
Participants do not pay to receive an award or to receive a release of shares.
Incentive Shares qualify for dividends.
Options granted under the following schemes are over subsidiaries of Barclays PLC: Absa Group Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment Transaction BEE On 25th June 2004, Absa shareholders approved the allocation of 73,152,300, redeemable cumulative option-holding Absa preference shares to Batho Bonke Capital Limited.
Each redeemable preference share carries the option to acquire one Absa ordinary share.
The shares carry the same rights as ordinary shares including voting rights, and receive dividends which are payable semi-annually.
Options vested immediately on date of issue and lapse after five years from the date of issue.
Exercise may occur in lots of 100 only and within a price range varying from R48 to R69 3.164.55 dependent on the 30-day volume weighted trading price on the JSE Limited.
Options are redeemed by Absa on the final exercise date.
| 258 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 259 45 Share-based payments continued Absa Group Limited Share Incentive Trust AGLSIT In terms of the rules of Absa Group Limited Share Incentive Trust, the maximum number of shares which may be issued or transferred and or in respect of which options may be granted to the participants shall be limited to shares representing 10% of the total number of issued shares from time to time.
This is an equity-settled share-based payment arrangement and options are allocated to Absa employees according to the normal human resources talent management processes.
The options issued up to August 2005 had no performance criteria linked to them and vested in equal tranches after three, four and five years respectively.
No dividends accrue to the option holder over the vesting period.
The options expire after a period of ten years from the issuing date.
Options issued since August 2005 have performance criteria associated with them, which require headline earnings per share to exceed an agreed benchmark over a three-year period from the grant date for the options to vest.
Participants need to be in the employ of Absa at the vesting date in order to be entitled to the options.
Absa Group Limited Share Ownership Administrative Trust AGLSOT AGLSOT enabled all Absa employees to participate in a one-off offer to purchase 200 redeemable cumulative option-holding preference shares.
Options vest after three years and lapse after five years from the date of issue.
Absa Group Limited Executive Share Award Scheme AGLESAS The ESAS is an equity-settled share-based payment arrangement, where the participants notional bonus comprises a number of restricted nil-cost options, based on the allocation price of ordinary shares.
Such an initial allocation is held in trust or in the name of the participant.
If the participant is in the employ of the Group after the three-year vesting period, the participant will receive 20% matched shares.
If the bonus award remains in the ESAS for another two years, the participant receives another 10% matched shares.
Dividend shares are paid to participants on the ordinary shares as if the shares were held from inception.
The number of dividend shares awarded is therefore calculated on the initial allocation and on the 20% and or 10% matched shares, over the threeor five-year period.
Employees that receive a performance bonus in excess of a predetermined amount were compelled to place a set percentage of their bonus award into the ESAS.
Employees also had the option of utilising more of their bonus award for voluntary ESAS options.
In addition, options remain outstanding under the following closed schemes: Barclays Global Investors Equity Ownership Plan BGI EOP The Equity Ownership Plan was extended to key employees of BGI.
The exercise price of the options was determined by the Remuneration Committee of Barclays PLC based on the fair value of BGI as determined by an independent appraiser.
The options were granted over shares in Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited, a subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC.
Options are not exercisable until vesting, with a third of the options held generally becoming exercisable at each anniversary of grant.
The shareholder has the right to offer to sell the shares to Barclays Bank PLC 355 days following the exercise of the option.
Barclays Bank PLC may accept the offer and purchase the shares at the most recently agreed valuation but is under no obligation to do so.
Options lapse ten years after grant.
The most recently agreed valuation was 87.22, at 31st March 2008.
No awards were made under the BGI EOP in 2008.
Incentive Share Option Plan ISOP The ISOP was open by invitation to the employees and Directors of Barclays PLC.
Options were granted at the market price at the date of grant calculated in accordance with the rules of the plan, and are normally exercisable between three and ten years from that date.
The final number of shares over which the option may be exercised is determined by reference to set performance criteria.
The number of shares under option represents the maximum possible 3 number that may be exercised.
No awards were made under ISOP during 2008.
Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS The ESOS is a long-term incentive scheme and was available by invitation to certain senior executives of the Group with grants usually made annually.
Options were issued with an exercise price equivalent to the market price at the date of the grant without any discount, calculated in accordance with the rules of the scheme, and are normally exercisable between three and ten years from that date.
No further awards are made under ESOS.
Woolwich Executive Share Option Plan Woolwich ESOP Options originally granted over Woolwich PLC shares at market value were exercised in 2001 or exchanged, in accordance with the proposals made under the offer to acquire the Woolwich, for options over Barclays PLC shares.
Under the rules of ESOP, the performance conditions attached to the exercise of options were disapplied on acquisition of Woolwich PLC by Barclays.
At the balance sheet date the following cash-settled schemes operated within the Group: Absa Group Limited Phantom Performance Share Plan Phantom PSP The Phantom PSP is a cash-settled plan and payments made to participants in respect of their awards are in the form of cash.
The Phantom PSP shares and any associated notional dividend shares are awarded at no cost to the participants.
The amount that is ultimately paid to the participants is equal to the market value of a number of ordinary shares as determined after a three-year vesting period.
The vesting of the Phantom PSP awards will be subject to two non-market performance conditions which will be measured over a three-year period, starting on the first day of the financial year in which the award is made.
The award will vest after three years to the extent that the performance conditions are satisfied.
These awards are forfeited in total if Absa performance fails to meet the minimum criteria Absa Group Limited Phantom Executive Share Award Scheme Phantom ESAS The Phantom ESAS is a cash-settled share-based payment arrangement, where the participants notional bonus comprises a number of restricted nil-cost options, based on the allocation price of ordinary shares.
If the participant is in the employ of the Group after the three-year vesting period, the participant will receive 20% bonus phantom shares.
If the bonus award remains in the Phantom ESAS for another two years, the participant receives an additional 10% bonus phantom shares.
Dividend phantom shares are paid to participants on the ordinary phantom shares as if the shares were held from inception.
The number of dividend phantom shares awarded is therefore calculated on the initial allocation and on the 20% and 10% bonus phantom shares, over the five-year period.
Employees that receive performance bonuses in excess of a predetermined amount are compelled to place a set percentage of the bonus award in the Phantom ESAS.
Employees also have the option of utilising more of their bonus award for voluntary ESAS phantom shares.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 259 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 260 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 45 Share-based payments continued The weighted average fair value per option granted during the year is as follows: 2008 2007 Sharesave 0.92 1.25 Sharepurchase 3.38 6.84 ISP 4.22 n a ESAS 4.09 6.96 PSP 4.89 8.03 BGI EOP n a 22.18 AGLSIT n a 3.18 AGLESAS 7.17 n a Fair values for Sharesave, PSP, BGI EOP and AGLSIT are calculated at the date of grant using either a Black-Scholes model or Monte Carlo simulation.
No further grants have been made under the BGI EOP since 2008.
Sharepurchase, ESAS, and AGLESAS are nil cost awards on which the performance conditions are substantially completed at the date of grant.
Consequently the fair value of these awards is based on the market value at that date.
As described above, the terms of the ESAS scheme require shares to be held for a set number of years from the date of vest.
The calculation of the vest date fair value of such awards includes a reduction for this post-vesting restriction.
This discount is determined by calculating how much a willing market participant would rationally pay to remove the restriction using a Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The significant weighted average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the options granted in 2008 are as follows: 2008 Sharesave PSP AGLESAS Weighted average share price 3.11 5.45 7.17 Weighted average exercise price 2.51 2.07 Expected volatility 37% 37% 0% Expected option life 4 years 3 years 5 years The significant weighted average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the options granted in 2007 are as follows: 2007 Sharesave PSP BGI EOP AGLSIT Weighted average share price 5.82 7.07 95.33 9.18 Weighted average exercise price 4.81 95.33 7.62 Expected volatility 25% 25% 20% 30% Expected option life 4 years 3 years 4 years 5 years The significant weighted average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the options granted in 2006 are as follows: 2006 Sharesave PSP BGI EOP AGLSIT Weighted average share price 6.20 6.74 81.12 8.92 Weighted average exercise price 5.11 81.12 6.57 Expected volatility 25% 25% 24% 29% Expected option life 4 years 3 years 4 years 5 years Expected volatility and dividend yield on the date of grant have been used as inputs into the respective valuation models for Sharesave and PSP.
Expected volatility has been determined using historical volatility of its peers over the expected life of the options for BGI EOP and AGLSIT applies a five-year rolling period.
The yield on UK government bonds with a commensurate life has been used to determine the risk-free discount rate of 4% for all schemes other than AGLSIT.
Option life is estimated based upon historical data for the holding period of options between grant and exercise dates.
The risk-free rate on the AGLSIT scheme represents the yield, recorded on date of option grant, on South African government zero coupon bond of a term commensurate to the expected life of the option.
| 260 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 261 45 Share-based payments continued For the purposes of determining the expected life and number of options to vest, historical exercise patterns have been used, together with an assumption that a certain percentage of options will lapse due to leavers.
The assumed dividend yield for Barclays PLC is the average annual dividend yield on the date of grant of 5%.
Dividend yield for AGLSIT of 3.5% was based on the average 12-month trailing yield over the year to grant date.
Analysis of the movement in the number and weighted average exercise price of options is set out below: a a, c Sharesave Sharepurchase Number Weighted average Number Weighted average 000s ex.
price 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 Outstanding at beginning of year acquisition date 73,152 73,152 3.40-3.89 3.50-5.03 Granted in the year 6,923 Adjustment in grants for open offer 177 Exercised released in the year Less: forfeited in the year Less: expired in the year Outstanding at end of year 7,100 73,152 73,152 3.16-4.55 3.40-3.89 Of which exercisable: 73,152 73,152 3.16-4.55 3.40-3.89 b b AGLSIT AGLSOT Number Weighted average Number Weighted average 000s ex.
b Options award granted over Absa Group Limited shares.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 261 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 262 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 45 Share-based payments continued c, d b AGLESAS BGI EOP Number Weighted average Number Weighted average 000s ex.
price 2008 2007 2008 2007 Outstanding at beginning of year 540 700 3.81 3.81 Granted in the year Adjustment in grants for open offer 12 3.70 Exercised released in the year 104 160 3.10 3.84 Less: forfeited in the year 6 3.65 Less: expired in the year Outstanding at end of year 442 540 3.70 3.81 Of which exercisable: 442 540 3.70 3.81 The table below shows the weighted average share price at the date of exercise release of shares: 2008 2007 a Sharesave 4.70 5.72 a, d Sharepurchase 1.59 6.74 a, d ESAS 4.07 6.71 PSP 2.07 n a b BGI EOP 87.22 97.06 c AGLSIT 6.78 9.52 c AGLSOT 6.79 n a a ISOP 4.59 7.31 a ESOS 4.74 7.26 a Woolwich ESOP 4.72 7.24 Notes a Options award granted over Barclays PLC shares.
b Options award granted over Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited shares.
c Options award granted over Absa Group Limited shares.
| 262 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
As at 31st December 2008, the total liability arising from cash-settled share-based payment transactions was 23m 2007: 16m.
At 31st December 2008, 6.6 million 2007: 7.5 million options were outstanding under the terms of the BGI EOP which would represent a 7.3% interest if exercised.
Employees in BGI own 4.5% of the shares in Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited 2007: 5.9%.
If all the current options were exercised, 516.9m 2007: 567.6m would be subscribed.
Since the scheme was introduced, options over 21.5 million 2007: 20.9 million shares have been exercised, of which 3.8 million are still held by employees and represent a minority interest in the Group.
At 31st December 2008, there were 73.2 million, 10 million and 0.6 million options granted over Absa Group Limited shares under the Absa Group Limited Black Economic Empowerment Transaction, Absa Group Limited Share Incentive Trust and Absa Group Limited Share Ownership Administrative Trust respectively.
In aggregate, these options would represent a 11.0% interest in Absa Group Limited if exercised.
Impact of capital raising During 2008, the number of shares in each award or option has been increased by 2.68% and any corresponding option exercise price has been decreased by 2.68% to reflect the impact of the capital raising in July.
No adjustments were made for any other capital raising during 2008.
Notes a Options award granted over Barclays PLC shares.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 263 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 264 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 46 Financial risks Financial risk management Barclays PLC is a major global financial services provider engaged in retail and commercial banking, credit cards, investment banking, wealth management and investment management services.
Financial instruments are fundamental to the Groups business and managing financial risks, especially credit risk, is a fundamental part of its business activity.
Barclays risk management policies and processes are designed to identify and analyse risk, to set appropriate risk appetite, limits, and controls, and to monitor the risks and adherence to limits by means of reliable and up-to-date data.
Risk management policies, models and systems are regularly reviewed to reflect changes to markets, products and best market practice.
Risk responsibilities The Board approves risk appetite and the Board Risk Committee monitors the Groups risk profile against this appetite: The Group Risk Director, under delegated authority from the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, has responsibility for ensuring effective risk management and control: Business Heads are responsible for the identification and management of risk in their businesses: Business risk teams, each under the management of a Business Risk Director, are responsible for assisting Business Heads in the identification and management of their business risk profiles for implementing appropriate controls.
These risk management teams also assist Group Risk in the formulation of Group Risk policy and the implementation of it across the businesses: Within Group Risk, Risk-Type Heads and their teams are responsible for establishing a risk control framework and risk oversight: and Internal Audit is responsible for the independent review of risk management and the control environment.
Oversight of risk management is exercised by the Risk Oversight Committee which is chaired by the Group Risk Director under authority delegated by the Group Finance Director.
The Risk Oversight Committee oversees management of the Groups risk profile, exercised through the setting, review and challenge of the size and constitution of the profile when viewed against the Group risk appetite.
The Executive Committee monitors and manages risk-adjusted performance of businesses and receives a regular update on forward risk trends and the Group Risk Profile Report.
The Board Risk Committee BRC reviews the Group risk profile, approves the Group Control Framework and approves minimum control requirements for principal risks.
The Board Audit Committee BAC considers the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group Control Framework and receives quarterly reports on control issues of significance and half-yearly reports on impairment allowances and regulatory reports.
Both BRC and BAC also receive reports dealing in more depth with specific issues relevant at the time.
The proceedings of both Committees are reported to the full Board.
The Board approves the overall Group risk appetite.
The Risk Oversight Committee is chaired by the Group Risk Director and oversees the management of the Groups risk profile and all of its significant risks.
Oversight is exercised through the setting, review and challenge of the size and constitution of the profile when viewed against the Groups risk appetite.
It has delegated and apportioned responsibility for credit risk management to the Retail and Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committees.
The main financial risks affecting the Group are discussed in Notes 47 to 49.
47 Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of suffering financial loss, should any of the Groups customers, clients or market counterparties fail to fulfil their contractual obligations to the Group.
Credit risk arises mainly from commercial and consumer loans and advances, credit cards, and loan commitments arising from such lending activities, but can also arise from credit enhancement provided, such as financial guarantees, letters of credit, endorsements and acceptances.
Barclays is also exposed to other credit risks arising from investments in debt securities and other exposures arising from its trading activities trading exposures including, non-equity trading portfolio assets, derivatives as well as settlement balances with market counterparties and reverse repurchase loans.
Losses arising from exposures held for trading derivatives, debt securities are accounted for as trading losses, rather than impairment charges, even though the fall in value causing the loss may be attributable to credit deterioration.
Maximum exposure to credit risk before collateral held or other credit enhancements The following table presents the maximum exposure at 31st December 2008 and 2007 to credit risk of balance sheet and off balance sheet financial instruments, before taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements and after allowance for impairment and netting where appropriate.
For financial assets recognised on the balance sheet, the exposure to credit risk equals their carrying amount.
For financial guarantees granted, the maximum exposure to credit risk is the maximum amount that Barclays would have to pay if the guarantees were to be called upon.
For loan commitments and other credit related commitments that are irrevocable over the life of the respective facilities, the maximum exposure to credit risk is the full amount of the committed facilities.
This analysis and all subsequent analyses of credit risk include only financial assets subject to credit risk.
They exclude other financial assets, mainly equity securities held in trading portfolio or available for sale as well as non-financial assets.
The nominal value of off-balance sheet credit related instruments are also shown, where appropriate.
Financial assets designated at fair value held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts have not been included as the Group is not exposed to credit risk on these assets.
Credit losses in these portfolios, if any, would lead to a reduction in the linked liabilities and result in no direct loss to the Group.
| 264 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 265 47 Credit risk continued Whilst the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying value of the assets or, in the case of off-balance sheet items, the amount guaranteed, committed, accepted or endorsed, in most cases the likely exposure is far less due to collateral, credit enhancements and other actions taken to mitigate the Groups exposure.
A description of the credit risk management and measurement methodologies, the credit quality of the assets and the collateral and other credit enhancements held against them is included in the relevant sections within this Note, for each of the categories in the following table: At 31st December 2008 Reverse Credit Loans and Debt repurchase market advances securities Derivatives agreements Others Total exposure m m m m m m m On-balance sheet: Cash and balances at central banks 30,019 30,019 Items in course of collection from other banks 1,695 1,695 Trading portfolio: Treasury and other eligible bills 4,544 4,544 Debt securities 148,686 148,686 4,745 Traded loans 1,070 1,070 Total trading portfolio 1,070 153,230 154,300 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account: Loans and advances 30,057 130 30,187 14,429 Debt securities 8,628 8,628 Other financial assets 1,469 7,283 479 9,231 Total financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 31,526 8,628 7,283 609 48,046 Derivative financial instruments 984,802 984,802 9,234 Loans and advances to banks 47,707 47,707 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 135,077 135,077 Credit card receivables 22,304 22,304 Other personal lending 32,038 32,038 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 259,699 259,699 3 Finance lease receivables 12,697 12,697 Total loans and advances to customers 461,815 461,815 12,808 Available for sale financial investments: Treasury and other eligible bills 4,003 4,003 Debt securities 58,831 58,831 727 Total available for sale financial investments 62,834 62,834 Reverse repurchase agreements 130,354 130,354 Other assets 3,096 3,096 109 Total on-balance sheet 542,118 224,692 984,802 137,637 35,419 1,924,668 Off-balance sheet: Acceptances and endorsements 585 Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security and securities lending arrangements 53,942 Commitments 260,816 1,030 Total off-balance sheet 315,343 Total maximum exposure at 31st December 2,240,011 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 265 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 266 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 47 Credit risk continued At 31st December 2007 Reverse Credit Loans and Debt repurchase market advances securities Derivatives agreements Others Total exposure m m m m m m m On-balance sheet: Cash and balances at central banks 5,801 5,801 Items in course of collection from other banks 1,836 1,836 Trading portfolio: Treasury and other eligible bills 2,094 2,094 Debt securities 152,778 152,778 6,239 Traded loans 1,780 1,780 Total trading portfolio 1,780 154,872 156,652 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account: Loans and advances 23,334 157 23,491 15,218 Debt securities 24,217 24,217 Other financial assets 98 3,056 391 3,545 Total financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 23,432 24,217 3,056 548 51,253 Derivative financial instruments 248,088 248,088 445 Loans and advances to banks 40,120 40,120 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 106,619 106,619 Credit card receivables 14,289 14,289 Other personal lending 29,857 29,857 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 183,556 183,556 11,535 Finance lease receivables 11,077 11,077 Total loans and advances to customers 345,398 345,398 Available for sale financial investments: Treasury and other eligible bills 2,723 2,723 Debt securities 38,673 38,673 1,244 Total available for sale financial investments 41,396 41,396 Reverse repurchase agreements 183,075 183,075 225 Other assets 3,966 3,966 57 Total on-balance sheet 410,730 220,485 248,088 186,131 12,151 1,077,585 Off-balance sheet: Acceptances and endorsements 365 Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security and securities lending arrangements 35,692 Commitments 192,639 3,225 Total off-balance sheet 228,696 Total maximum exposure at 31st December 1,306,281 | 266 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 267 47 Credit risk continued Credit risk concentrations A concentration of credit risk exists when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar activities and have similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic or other conditions.
The analyses of credit risk concentrations presented below are based on the location of the counterparty or customer or the industry in which they are engaged.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 269 47 Credit risk continued Credit risk concentrations by industrial sector 2007 Transport, Postal and Agriculture, communiManufaccation and turing and Government Business Wholesale Construction Energy Residential Other Finance and Central Financial and other and retail and and mortgage personal lease Banks Services services trade Property water loans lending receivables Total m m m m m m m m m m On-balance sheet: Cash and balances at central banks 5,801 5,801 Items in the course of collection from other banks 8 1,828 1,836 Trading portfolio 58,608 83,790 4,434 3,928 924 4,072 895 1 156,652 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 10,914 23,742 570 699 11,325 396 3,509 98 51,253 Derivative financial instruments 2,886 227,609 2,771 5,567 1, 106 8,031 87 31 248,088 Loans and advances to banks 7,881 32,239 40,120 Loans and advances to customers 2,036 70,699 41,678 38,170 22,288 8,623 106,619 44,208 11,077 345,398 Available for sale financial investments 8,880 29,693 2,142 249 167 246 19 41,396 Reverse repurchase agreements 1,713 179,459 416 735 752 183,075 Other assets 270 1,506 542 307 168 5 112 1,056 3,966 Total on-balance sheet 98,997 650,565 52,553 49,655 36,730 21,373 111,222 45,413 11,077 1,077,585 Off-balance sheet: Acceptances and endorsements 125 111 91 21 4 13 365 Guarantees and letters 3 of credit pledged as collateral security and securities lending arrangements 51 17,021 12,847 1,867 538 2,687 1 680 35,692 Commitments 4,511 30,492 26,370 32,388 11, 282 9,961 10,969 66,666 192,639 Total off-balance sheet 4,562 47,638 39,328 34,346 11,841 12,652 10,970 67,359 228,696 Total 103,559 698,203 91,881 84,001 48,571 34,025 122,192 112,772 11,077 1,306,281 Loans and advances to customers in the above table has been reanalysed between Agriculture, Manufacturing and Wholesale and retail trade, Residential mortgage loans and Other personal to reflect changes in classification of assets.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 269 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 270 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 47 Credit risk continued Loans and advances Credit risk management Governance and responsibilities The credit risk management teams in each business are accountable to the Business Risk Directors in those businesses who, in turn, report to the heads of their businesses and also to the Group Risk Director.
The credit risk function provides Group-wide direction of credit risk-taking.
The teams within this function manage the resolution of all significant credit policy issues and run the Credit Committee, which approves major credit decisions.
Each business segment has an embedded credit risk management team.
These teams assist Group Risk in the formulation of Group Risk policy and its implementation across the businesses.
The principal committees that review credit risk management, formulate overall Group credit policy and resolve all significant credit policy issues are the Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committee, the Retail Credit Risk Management Committee, the Risk Oversight Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
The Retail Credit Risk Management Committee RCRMC oversees exposures, which comprise unsecured personal lending including small businesses, mortgages and credit cards.
The RCRMC monitors the risk profile and performance of the retail portfolios by receipt of key risk measures and indicators at an individual portfolio level, ensuring mitigating actions taken to address performance are appropriate and timely.
Metrics reviewed will consider portfolio composition and both an overall stock and new flow level.
The Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committee WCRMC oversees wholesale exposures, comprising lending to businesses, banks and other financial institutions.
The WCRMC monitors exposure by country, industry sector, individual large exposures and exposures to sub-investment grade countries.
The monthly Wholesale and Retail Credit Risk Management Committees exercise oversight through review and challenge of the size and constitution of the portfolios when viewed against Group risk appetite for wholesale and retail credit risks.
They are chaired by the Group Wholesale and Retail Credit Risk Directors.
Credit monitoring Wholesale and corporate loans which are deemed to contain heightened levels of risk are recorded on early-warning or watch lists.
These lists are graded in line with the perceived severity of the risk attached to the lending and its probability of default.
The lists are updated on a monthly basis and are closely monitored.
Regardless of whether they are recorded on early-warning or watch lists, all wholesale and corporate loans are subject to a full review of all facilities on, at least, an annual basis.
More frequent interim reviews may be undertaken should circumstances dictate.
Retail loans which tend to comprise homogeneous assets are monitored on a portfolio basis.
Credit risk measurement Barclays uses statistical modelling techniques throughout its business in its credit rating systems.
They enable a coherent approach to risk measurement across all credit exposures, retail and wholesale.
The key building blocks in the measurement system are the probability of customer default PD, exposure in the event of default EAD, and severity of loss-given-default LGD.
The models are reviewed regularly to monitor their robustness relative to actual performance and amended as necessary to optimise their effectiveness.
For wholesale and corporate lending, Barclays assesses the credit quality of borrowers and other counterparties and assigns them an internal risk rating.
Barclays credit rating contains 21 grades, representing the Groups best estimate of credit risk for a counterparty based on current economic conditions.
Retail customers are not all assigned internal risk ratings in this way for account management purposes, therefore their probability of default is considered.
The Group considers Credit Risk Loans defined as all customers overdue by 90 days or more, and or individually impaired or restructured and loan loss rates when assessing the credit performance of its loan portfolios, other than those held at fair value.
For the purposes of historical and business unit comparison, loan loss rates are defined as total credit impairment charge excluding available for sale assets and reverse repurchase agreements divided by gross loans and advances to customers and banks at amortised cost.
Credit risk mitigation Where appropriate, the Group takes action to mitigate credit risk such as reducing amounts outstanding in discussion with the customers, clients or counterparties if appropriate, using credit derivatives, securitising assets: and selling them.
Diversification to avoid unwanted credit risk concentrations is achieved through setting maximum exposure guidelines to individual counterparties.
Excesses are reported to the Risk Oversight Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
Mandate and scale limits are used to limit the stock of current exposures in a loan portfolio and the flow of new exposures into a loan portfolio.
Limits are typically based on the tenor and nature of the lending.
Collateral and security The Group routinely obtains collateral and security to mitigate credit risk.
The Group ensures that any collateral held is sufficiently liquid, legally effective, enforceable and regularly reassessed.
Before attaching value to collateral, businesses holding specific, agreed classes of collateral must ensure that they are holding a correctly perfected charge.
Before reliance is placed on third party protection in the form of bank, government or corporate guarantees or credit derivative protection from financial intermediary counterparties, a credit assessment is undertaken.
Security structures and legal covenants are subject to regular review, at least annually, to ensure that they remain fit for purpose and remain consistent with accepted local market practice.
| 270 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 271 47 Credit risk continued All loans and advances are categorised as either: neither past due nor individually impaired: past due but not individually impaired: or individually impaired.
The impairment allowance includes allowances against financial assets that have been individually impaired and those subject to collective impairment.
Credit risk loans comprise loans and advances to banks and customers 90 days overdue or more and those subject to individual impairment.
The coverage ratio is calculated by reference to the total impairment allowance and the carrying value before impairment of credit risk loans.
As at 31st December 2008 Neither past Past due due nor but not Total individually individually Individually Impairment carrying Credit Risk Coverage a b impaired impaired impaired Total allowance value Loans ratio m m m m m m m % Trading portfolio: Traded loans 1,070 1,070 1,070 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account: Loans and advances 29,182 875 30,057 30,057 Other financial assets 1,469 1,469 1,469 Loans and advances to banks 46,665 1,045 48 47,758 51 47,707 48 100.0 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 126,363 7,413 1,608 135,384 307 135,077 2,403 12.8 Credit card receivables 21,092 1,426 1,231 23,749 1,445 22,304 1,990 72.6 Other personal lending 30,539 1,342 2,040 33,921 1,883 32,038 2,685 70.1 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 246,505 8,307 7,586 262,398 2,699 259,699 8,277 32.6 Finance lease receivables 12,367 285 234 12,886 189 12,697 297 63.6 Total 515,252 20,693 12,747 548,692 6,574 542,118 15,700 41.9 As at 31st December 2007 Neither past Past due due nor but not Total individually individually Individually Impairment carrying Credit Risk Coverage a b impaired impaired impaired Total allowance value Loans ratio m m m m m m m % 3 Trading portfolio: Traded loans 1,780 1,780 1,780 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account: Loans and advances 22,977 357 23,334 23,334 Other financial assets 98 98 98 Loans and advances to banks 37,601 2,522 40,123 3 40,120 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 100,323 5,813 615 106,751 132 106,619 1,014 13.0 Credit card receivables 12,587 1,026 1,517 15,130 841 14,289 1,568 53.6 Other personal lending 28,569 1,020 1,641 31,230 1,373 29,857 1,822 75.4 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 171,949 7,987 4,930 184,866 1,310 183,556 5,058 25.9 Finance lease receivables 10,890 159 141 11,190 113 11,077 179 63.1 Total 386,774 18,884 8,844 414,502 3,772 410,730 9,641 39.1 Notes a Financial assets subject to collective impairment allowance are included in this column if they are not past due.
b Financial assets subject to collective impairment allowance are included in this column if they are past due.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 271 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 272 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 47 Credit risk continued Credit quality of loans and advances neither past due nor individually impaired 2008 2007 Strong Satisfactory Higher risk Total Strong Satisfactory Higher risk Total m m m m m m m m Trading portfolio: Traded loans 759 220 91 1,070 223 1,228 329 1,780 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account: Loans and advances 25,665 2,792 725 29,182 13,687 6,186 3,104 22,977 Other financial assets 1,469 1,469 98 98 Loans and advances to banks 40,181 6,384 100 46,665 35,635 1,955 11 37,601 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 82,363 42,770 1,230 126,363 60,563 38,000 1,760 100,323 Credit card receivables 20,426 666 21,092 12,582 5 12,587 Other personal lending 7,549 21,750 1,240 30,539 5,061 22,619 889 28,569 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 141,868 94,453 10,184 246,505 114,693 54,828 2,428 171,949 Finance lease receivables 4,214 7,504 649 12,367 4,586 6,036 268 10,890 Total loans and advances 302,599 197,768 14,885 515,252 234,546 143,434 8,794 386,774 For the purposes of the analysis of credit quality, the following internal measures of credit quality have been used: Retail lending Wholesale lending Financial statements description Probability of default Probability of default Default grade Strong 0.0-0.60% 0.0-0.05% 1-3 0.05-0.15% 4-5 0.15-0.30% 6-8 0.30-0.60% 9-11 Satisfactory 0.60-10.00% 0.60-2.15% 11-14 2.15-11.35% 15-19 Higher risk 10.00% 11.35% 20-21 Financial statement descriptions can be summarised as follows: Strong there is a very high likelihood of the asset being recovered in full.
Satisfactory whilst there is a high likelihood that the asset will be recovered and therefore, of no cause for concern to the Group, the asset may not be collateralised, or may relate to retail facilities, such as credit card balances and unsecured loans, which have been classified as satisfactory, regardless of the fact that the output of internal grading models may have indicated a higher classification.
At the lower end of this grade there are customers that are being more carefully monitored, for example, corporate customers which are indicating some evidence of some deterioration, mortgages with a high loan to value ratio, and unsecured retail loans operating outside normal product guidelines.
Higher risk there is concern over the obligors ability to make payments when due.
However, these have not yet converted to actual delinquency.
There may also be doubts over value of collateral or security provided.
However, the borrower or counterparty is continuing to make payments when due and is expected to settle all outstanding amounts of principal and interest.
| 272 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 273 47 Credit risk continued Loans and advances that are past due but not individually impaired An age analysis of loans and advances that are past due but not individually impaired is set out below.
For the purposes of this analysis an asset is considered past due and included below when any payment due under strict contractual terms is received late or missed.
The amount included is the entire financial asset, not just the payment, of principal or interest or both, overdue.
The table below provides a breakdown of total financial assets past due but not individually impaired.
In general, retail and wholesale loans fall into this category for two separate reasons.
Retail loans and advances to customers may come under this category because the impairment allowance on such loans is calculated on a collective not individual basis.
This reflects the homogenous nature of the assets, which allows statistical techniques to be used, rather than individual assessment.
In contrast, some loans to wholesale and corporate customers and banks may come under this category because of instances where a payment on a loan is past due without requiring an individual impairment allowance.
For example, an individual impairment allowance will not be required when a loss is not expected due to a corporate loan being fully secured or collateralised.
As a result, it is past due but not individually impaired.
2008 Past due Past due Past due Past due Past due Of which up to 1 1-2 2-3 3-6 6 months Credit month months months months and over Total Risk Loans m m m m m m m Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account: Loans and advances 315 147 81 82 250 875 Loans and advances to banks 1,044 1 1,045 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 4,420 1,568 630 713 82 7,413 795 Credit card receivables 293 224 150 291 468 1,426 759 Other personal lending 220 204 273 338 307 1,342 645 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 6,229 540 847 477 214 8,307 691 Finance lease receivables 130 53 39 63 285 63 Total loans and advances to customers 11,292 2,589 1,939 1,882 1,071 18,773 2,953 Total financial assets past due but not individually impaired 12,651 2,737 2,020 1,964 1,321 20,693 2,953 2007 Past due Past due Past due Past due Past due Of which up to 1 1-2 2-3 3-6 6 months Credit month months months months and over Total Risk Loans m m m m m m m Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account: 3 Loans and advances 261 41 24 67 357 Loans and advances to banks 2,031 305 186 2,522 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 3,609 1,349 456 215 184 5,813 399 Credit card receivables 558 155 107 205 1 1,026 51 Other personal lending 271 199 193 152 205 1,020 181 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 6,970 622 267 62 66 7,987 128 Finance lease receivables 75 28 18 38 159 38 Total loans and advances to customers 11,483 2,353 1,041 672 456 16,005 797 Total financial assets past due but not individually impaired 13,775 2,662 1,228 696 523 18,884 797 Loans and advances individually assessed as impaired An analysis of financial assets individually assessed as impaired is as follows: 2008 2007 Original Revised Original Revised carrying Impairment carrying carrying Impairment carrying amount allowance amount amount allowance amount m m m m m m Loans and advances to banks individually impaired 48 44 4 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 1,608 227 1,381 615 88 527 Credit card receivables 1,231 727 504 1,517 725 792 Other personal lending 2,040 1,250 790 1,641 1,030 611 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 7,586 2,310 5,276 4,930 944 3,986 Finance lease receivables 234 140 94 141 102 39 Total loans and advances individually impaired 12,747 4,698 8,049 8,844 2,889 5,955 Collective impairment allowance 1,876 883 Total impairment allowance 6,574 3,772 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 273 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 274 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 47 Credit risk continued The movements on the impairment allowance during the year were as follows: 2008 Amounts At Acquisitions Unwind Exchange Amounts charged to Balance beginning and of and other written income at 31st of year disposals discount adjustments off Recoveries statement December m m m m m m m m Loans and advances to banks 3 1 7 40 51 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 132 35 19 44 3232307 Credit card receivables 841 306 68 94 845 69 1,048 1,445 Other personal lending 1,373 1 32 134 525 42 890 1,883 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 1,310 506 1,428 41 2,270 2,699 Finance lease receivables 113 37 77 12 104 189 Total loans and advances to customers 3,769 307 135 790 2,919 167 4,544 6,523 Total impairment allowance 3,772 307 135 791 2,919 174 4,584 6,574 2007 Amounts At Acquisitions Unwind Exchange Amounts charged to Balance beginning and of and other written income at 31st of year disposals discount adjustments off Recoveries statement December m m m m m m m m Loans and advances to banks 4 1 13 13 3 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 124 2 5 56 132 Credit card receivables 1,030 75 60 4 819 103 658 841 Other personal lending 1,139 53 10 668 54 891 1,373 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 939 1 37 440 46 727 1,310 Finance lease receivables 99 1 30 6 37 113 Total loans and advances to customers 3,331 73 113 53 1,962 214 2,319 3,769 Total impairment allowance 3,335 73 113 53 1,963 227 2,306 3,772 Loan Loss Rates Loans and Gross advances Loan loans and Impairment net of Impairment Loss advances allowance impairment charge Rate m m m m basis point As at 31st December 2008 516,096 6,574 509,522 4,913 95 As at 31st December 2007 389,290 3,772 385,518 2,782 71 | 274 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 275 47 Credit risk continued Renegotiated loans and advances Loans and advances are generally renegotiated either as part of an ongoing customer relationship or in response to an adverse change in the circumstances of the borrower.
In the latter case renegotiation can result in an extension of the due date of payment or repayment plans under which the Group offers a concessionary rate of interest to genuinely distressed borrowers.
This will result in the asset continuing to be overdue and will be individually impaired where the renegotiated payments of interest and principal will not recover the original carrying amount of the asset.
In other cases, renegotiation will lead to a new agreement, which is treated as a new loan.
Collateral and other credit enhancements held Financial assets that are past due or individually assessed as impaired may be partially or fully collateralised or subject to other forms of credit enhancement.
Assets in these categories subject to collateralisation are mainly corporate loans, residential mortgage loans and finance lease receivables.
Credit card receivables and other personal lending are generally unsecured although in some instances a charge over the borrowers property of other assets may be sought.
Corporate loans Security is usually taken in the form of a fixed charge over the borrowers property or a floating charge over the assets of the borrower.
Loan covenants may be put in place to safeguard the Groups financial position.
If the exposure is sufficiently large, either individually or at the portfolio level, credit protection in the form of guarantees, credit derivatives or insurance may be taken out.
For these and other reasons collateral given is only accurately valued on origination of the loan or in the course of enforcement actions and as a result it is not practicable to estimate the fair value of the collateral held.
Residential mortgage loans These are secured by a fixed charge over the property.
A description and the estimated fair value of collateral held in respect of residential mortgage loans that are past due or individually assessed as impaired is as follows: Nature of assets 2008 2007 Fair value Fair value m m Residential property 7,264 6,488 Collateral included in the above table reflects the Groups interest in the property in the event of default.
That held in the form of charges against residential property in the UK is restricted to the outstanding loan balance.
In other territories, where the Group is not obliged to return any sale proceeds to the mortgagee, the full estimated fair value has been included.
Finance lease receivables The net investment in the lease is secured through retention of legal title to the leased assets.
3 Collateral and other credit enhancements obtained The carrying value of assets held by the Group as at 31st December 2008 as a result of the enforcement of collateral was as follows: Nature of assets 2008 2007 Carrying Carrying amount amount m m Residential property 171 34 Commercial and industrial property 2 1 Other credit enhancements 61 Total 234 35 Any properties repossessed are made available for sale in an orderly and timely fashion, with any proceeds realised being used to reduce or repay the outstanding loan.
For business customers, in some circumstances, where excess funds are available after repayment in full of the outstanding loan, they are offered to any other, lower ranked, secured lenders.
Any additional funds are returned to the customer.
Barclays does not, as a rule, occupy repossessed properties for its business use.
The Group does not use assets obtained in its operations.
Assets obtained are normally sold, generally at auction, or realised in an orderly manner for the maximum benefit of the Group, the borrower and the borrowers other creditors in accordance with the relevant insolvency regulations.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 275 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 276 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 47 Credit risk continued Debt securities Trading portfolio assets, financial assets designated at fair value and available for sale assets are measured on a fair value basis.
The fair value will reflect, among other things, the credit risk of the issuer.
Most listed and some unlisted securities are rated by external rating agencies.
The Group mainly uses external credit ratings provided by Standard& Poors or Moodys.
Where such ratings are not available or are not current, the Group will use its own internal ratings for the securities.
Collateral is not generally obtained directly from the issuers of debt securities.
Certain debt securities may be collateralised by specifically identified assets that would be obtained in the event of default.
Derivatives Derivatives are measured on a fair value basis.
The credit quality of the Groups derivative assets according to the credit quality of the counterparty at 31st December 2008 and 2007 was as follows: 2008 2007 AAA to BBB AAA BBB investment B and investment B and grade BB to B below Total grade BB to B below Total m m m m m m m m Derivatives 939,071 42,266 3,465 984,802 243,491 3,630 967 248,088 % 95.3 4.3 0.4 100.0 98.1 1.5 0.4 100.0 Credit risk from derivatives is mitigated where possible through netting agreements whereby derivative assets and liabilities with the same counterparty can be offset.
Group policy requires all netting arrangements to be legally documented.
The ISDA Master Agreement is the Groups preferred agreement for documenting OTC derivatives.
It provides the contractual framework within which dealing activities across a full range of OTC products are conducted and contractually binds both parties to apply close-out netting across all outstanding transactions covered by an agreement if either party defaults or other pre-determined events occur.
Collateral is obtained against derivative assets, depending on the creditworthiness of the counterparty and or nature of the transaction.
Any collateral taken in respect of OTC trading exposures will be subject to a haircut which is negotiated at the time of signing the collateral agreement.
A haircut is the valuation percentage applicable to each type of collateral and will be largely based on liquidity and price volatility of the underlying security.
The collateral obtained for derivatives is either cash, direct debt obligation government G14 bonds denominated in the domestic currency of the issuing country, debt issued by supranationals or letters of credit issued by an institution with a long-term unsecured debt rating of A A3 or better.
Where the Group has ISDA master agreements, the collateral document will be the ISDA Credit Support Annex CSA.
The collateral document must give Barclays the power to realise any collateral placed with it in the event of the failure of the counterparty, and to place further collateral when requested or in the event of insolvency, administration or similar processes, as well as in the case of early termination.
Derivative assets and liabilities would be 917,074m 2007: 215,585m lower than reported if netting were permitted for assets and liabilities with the same counterparty or for which the Group holds cash collateral.
| 276 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 277 47 Credit risk continued Reverse repurchase agreements Reverse repurchase agreements and securities borrowing arrangements are collateralised loans typically of short maturities.
The loans are fully collateralised with highly liquid securities legally transferred to the Group.
The level of collateral is monitored daily and further collateral called when required.
2008 2007 AAA to BBB AAA to BBB investment B and investment B and grade BB to B below Total grade BB to B below Total m m m m m m m m Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account: Other financial assets 3,882 3,401 7,283 3,056 3,056 Reverse repurchase agreements 122,188 6,101 2,065 130,354 180,637 2,391 47 183,075 Total Reverse repurchase agreements 126,070 9,502 2,065 137,637 183,693 2,391 47 186,131 % 91.6 6.9 1.5 100.0 98.7 1.3 100.0 No reverse repurchase agreements held by the Group at 31st December 2008 or 2007 were individually impaired, however during the year, the Group wrote off 124m of reverse repurchase agreements 2007: nil.
Other credit risk assets The Groups other assets that are subject to credit risk are cash with central banks of 30,019m 2007: 5,801m, items in course of collection from other Banks 1,695m 2007: 1,836m, other financial assets3,096m 2007: 3,966m.
Cash and balances at central banks Substantially all balances are held with central banks.
There is limited credit risk in relation to balances at central banks.
Items in the course of collection from other banks There is limited credit risk in relation to items in the course of collection through the clearing system from other banks.
Other financial assets Other financial assets comprise 3,096m 2007: 3,966m of other assets and 609m 2007: 548m of assets held at fair value.
Off-balance sheet The Group applies fundamentally the same risk management policies for off-balance sheet risks as it does for its on-balance sheet risks.
In the case of committments to lend, customers and counterparties will be subject to the same credit management policies as for loans and advances.
Collateral may be sought depending on the strength of the counterparty and the nature of the transaction.
3 Credit market exposures Barclays Capitals credit market exposures primarily relate to US residential mortgages, commercial mortgages and leveraged finance businesses that have been significantly impacted by the continued deterioration in the global credit markets.
The exposures include both significant positions subject to fair value movements in the profit and loss account and positions that are classified as loans and advances and available for sale.
None of the exposure disclosed below has been reclassified to loans and advances under the amendments to IAS 39.
The exposures are set out by asset class below: As at As at 31.12.08 31.12.07 US Residential Mortgages m m ABS CDO Super Senior 3,104 4,671 Other US sub-prime 3,441 5,037 Alt-A 4,288 4,916 US RMBS exposure wrapped by monoline insurers 1,639 730 Commercial mortgages Commercial real estate 11,578 11,103 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 735 1,296 CMBS exposure wrapped by monoline insurers 1,854 197 Other Credit Market Exposures Leveraged finance 10,391 9,027 SIVs and SIV-Lites 963 784 CDPCs 150 19 CLO and other exposure wrapped by monoline insurers 4,939 408 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 277 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 278 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 48 Market risk Market risk management Market risk is the risk that Barclays earnings or capital, or its ability to meet business objectives, will be adversely affected by changes in the level or volatility of market rates or prices such as interest rates, credit spreads, commodity prices, equity prices and foreign exchange rates.
Market risk mainly arises from trading activities.
Barclays is also exposed to market risk through interest rate risk on its non-trading activities and through the pension fund.
Organisation and structure The Board approves market risk appetite for trading and non-trading activities.
The Market Risk Director is responsible for the Market Risk Control Framework and, under delegated authority from the Group Risk Director, sets a limit framework within the context of the approved market risk appetite.
A daily market risk report summarises Barclays market risk exposures against agreed limits.
This daily report is sent to the Group Risk Director, the Market Risk Director, the Group Finance Director and the appropriate Business Risk Directors.
The head of each business, assisted by the business risk management team, is accountable for all market risks associated with its activities.
Each business is responsible for the identification, measurement, management, control and reporting of market risk as outlined in Barclays Market Risk Control Framework.
Oversight and support is provided to the business by the Market Risk Director, assisted by the central market risk team.
The Market Risk Committee reviews, approves, and makes recommendations concerning the market risk profile across Barclays including risk appetite, limits and utilisation.
The Committee meets monthly and is chaired by the Market Risk Director.
Attendees include the Risk Director, respective business risk managers and senior managers from the central market risk team.
Traded market risk Barclays policy is to concentrate trading activities in Barclays Capital.
This includes transactions where Barclays Capital acts as principal with clients or with the market.
For maximum efficiency, client and market activities are managed together.
Risk measurement and control The measurement techniques used to measure and control traded market risk include Daily Value at Risk DVaR, Expected Shortfall ES, stress testing and scenario testing.
DVaR is an estimate of the potential loss arising from unfavourable market movements, if the current positions were to be held unchanged for one business day.
Barclays Capital uses the historical simulation method with a two year unweighted historical period.
In 2008, the confidence level was changed to 95% from 98% as an increasing incidence of significant market movements made the existing measure more volatile and less effective for risk management purposes.
Switching to 95% made DVaR more stable and consequently improved management, transparency and control of the market risk profile.
The historical simulation calculation can be split into three parts: Calculate hypothetical daily profit or loss for each position over the most recent two years, using observed daily market moves.
Sum hypothetical profit or losses, for day 1giving one total profit or loss.
This is repeated for all other days in the two year history.
DVaR is the 95th percentile selected from the two years of daily hypothetical total profit or loss.
The DVaR model has been approved by the FSA to calculate regulatory capital for the trading book.
The approval covers general market risk in interest rate, foreign exchange, commodities and equity products, and issuer specific risk for the majority of single name and portfolio traded credit products.
DVaR is an important market risk measurement and control tool and consequently the model is regularly assessed.
The main approach employed is the technique known as back-testing which counts the number of days when a loss as defined by the FSA in BIPRU 7.10, exceeds the corresponding DVaR estimate, measured at the 99% confidence level.
The FSA categorises a DVaR model as green being best, amber or red.
A green model is consistent with a good working DVaR model and is achieved for models that have four or less back-testing exceptions in a 12-month period.
For Barclays Capitals trading book, green model status was maintained for 2008 and 2007.
| 278 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 279 48 Market risk continued To further improve the control framework, formal daily monitoring of ES was started.
This metric is the average of all the hypothetical losses beyond DVaR.
Other controls, includes stress testing and scenario testing.
Stress testing provides an indication of the potential size of losses that could arise in extreme conditions.
It helps to identify risk concentrations across business lines and assist senior management in capital planning decisions.
A variety of different types of stress tests are performed in order to fulfil the objectives of stress testing.
The global asset class stress tests have been designed to cover major asset classes including interest rate, credit spread, commodity, equity, foreign exchange rates and emerging markets.
Stress results are produced at least fortnightly.
If a potential stress loss exceeds the corresponding trigger limit, the positions captured by the stress test are reviewed and discussed by Barclays Capital market risk management and the respective Barclays Capital business heads.
The minutes of the discussion, including the merits of the position and the appropriate course of action, are then sent to the Market Risk Director for review.
Scenario tests are hypothetical events which could lead to extreme yet plausible stress type moves under which profitability is seriously challenged.
The scenarios are devised by senior risk managers and economists and are reviewed quarterly.
Examples include Global pandemic, Problems with GBP sovereign issuances and Liquidity crisis.
The scenarios are calculated at least fortnightly and the results are included in the Traded Positions Risk Review meeting information pack.
Analysis of traded market risk exposures Barclays Capital market risk exposure, as measured by average total DVaR 95%, increased by 64% to 53.4m in 2008.
This was mainly due to higher market volatility within the credit spread and interest rate DVaRs.
Total DVaR increased significantly in the fourth quarter, mainly due to extreme market volatility following the failure of several financial intuitions and a material deterioration in the global economic outlook.
Total DVaR 95% at 31st December 2008 was 86.6m 31st December 2007: 39.6m, which was within limit.
On a 98% basis, average total DVaR increased 82% to 76.5m.
The daily average, maximum and minimum values of DVaR, 95% and 98%, were calculated as below.
Note a The high and low DVaR figures reported for each category did not necessarily occur on the same day as the high and low DVaR reported as a whole.
Consequently a diversification effect number for the high and low DVaR figures would not be meaningful and it is therefore omitted from the above table.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 279 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 280 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 48 Market risk continued Non-trading interest rate risk Non-traded interest rate risk arises from the provision of retail and wholesale non-traded banking products and services.
Barclays objective is to minimise non-traded risk.
This is achieved by transferring risk from the business to a local treasury or Group Treasury, who in turn hedge the net exposure with the external market.
Limits exist to ensure no material risk is retained within any business or product area.
The majority of exposures are within Global Retail and Commercial Banking.
Risk measurement and control The techniques used to measure and control non-traded interest rate risk include Annual Earnings at Risk, DVaR and Stress Testing.
Book limits such as foreign exchange and interest position limits are also in place.
Annual Earnings at Risk AEaR measures the sensitivity of net interest income NII over the next 12 months.
It is calculated as the difference between the estimated income using the current yield curve and the lowest estimated income following a 100 basis points increase or decrease in interest rates.
DVaR is also used as a complementary tool to AEaR.
Stress testing is also carried out by the business centres and is reviewed by senior management and business-level asset and liability committees.
The stress testing is tailored to the business and typically incorporates scenario analysis and historical stress movements applied to respective portfolios.
Analysis of Net Interest Income sensitivity The tables below show the pre-tax net interest income sensitivity for the non-trading financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31st December 2008.
The sensitivity has been measured using AEaR methodology as described above.
The benchmark interest rate for each currency is set as at 31st December 2008.
The figures include the effect of hedging instruments but exclude exposures held or issued by Barclays Capital as these are measured and managed using DVaR.
Net interest income sensitivity AEaR by currency 100 basis 100 basis 100 basis 100 basis points points points points 2008 2008 2007 2007 m m m m GBP 3 273 36 37 USD 25 7 3 1 EUR 34 30 23 23 ZAR 13 13 19 19 Others 8 4 5 Total 43 257 33 37 As percentage of net interest income 0.37% 2.24% 0.34% 0.39% Non-traded interest rate risk, as measured by AEaR, was 257m in 2008, an increase of 220m compared to 2007.
This estimate takes into account the rates in place as at 31st December 2008.
The increase mainly reflects the reduced spread generated on retail and commercial banking liabilities in the lower interest rate environment.
If the interest rate hedges had not been in place then the AEaR risk for 2008 would have been 670m.
DVaR is also used to control market risk in GRCB Western Europe, and Group Treasury.
The indicative average DVaRs for 2008, using a simplified DVaR approach, were 1.3m and 0.6m respectively.
Analysis of Equity sensitivity 100 basis 100 basis 100 basis 100 basis points points points points 2008 2008 2007 2007 m m m m Net interest income 43 257 33 37 Taxation effects on the above 6 33 9 10 Effect on profit for the year 37 224 24 27 As percentage of net profit after tax 0.70% 4.24% 0.47% 0.53% Effect on profit for the year per above 37 224 24 27 Available for sale reserve 806 806 390 390 Cash flow hedging reserve 473 474 476 476 Taxation effects on the above 166 166 242 242 Effect on equity 1,150 890 600 597 As a percentage of equity 2.43% 1.88% 1.85% 1.84% | 280 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 281 48 Market risk continued Foreign exchange risk The Group is exposed to two sources of foreign exchange risk.
a Transactional foreign currency exposure Transactional foreign exchange exposures represent exposure on banking assets and liabilities, denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the transacting entity.
The Groups risk management policies prevent the holding of significant open positions in foreign currencies outside the trading portfolio managed by Barclays Capital which is monitored through DVaR.
There were no material net transactional foreign currency exposures outside the trading portfolio at either 31st December 2008 or 2007.
Due to the low level of non-trading exposures no reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates would have a material effect on either the Groups profit or movements in equity for the year ended 31st December 2008 or 2007. b Translational foreign exchange exposure The Groups translational foreign currency exposure arises from both its capital resources including investments in subsidiaries and branches, intangible assets, minority interests and debt capital and risk weighted assets denominated in non-Sterling currencies.
Changes in foreign exchange rates result in changes in the Sterling equivalent value of non-Sterling denominated capital resources and risk weighted assets.
As a result, the Groups regulatory capital ratios are sensitive to foreign exchange rate movements.
The Groups hedge strategy is to minimise the volatility of all capital ratios whilst taking into account the impact on hedging of non-Sterling net investments, the cost of hedging, the availability of a suitable foreign exchange market and prevailing foreign exchange rates.
To minimise volatility in the equity ratio, the Group aims over time to maintain the ratio of foreign currency equity capital resources to RWAs the same as the Groups equity ratio.
To create equity capital resources denominated in non-Sterling currencies, the Group leaves some investments in core nonSterling subsidiaries and branches un-hedged.
The resultant change in the Sterling value of the investments is captured in the currency translation reserve, resulting in an equity capital movement.
Depending on the value of non-Sterling net investments, it may not always be possible to maintain the ratio, leaving some capital ratio sensitivity to foreign exchange movements.
The proceeds from equity accounted foreign currency preference shares are also used in the equity ratio hedge.
If a preference share is redeemed, the cumulative movement in the currency translation reserve will be offset by an equal and opposite movement in other reserves reflecting the revaluation of the preference shares to prevailing foreign exchange rates.
The exposure of Tier 1 and Total capital ratios is managed by issuing, where possible, debt capital in non-Sterling currencies such that the ratio of Tier 1 and total capital resources to risk weighted assets is the same as the Groups Tier 1 and Total capital ratios.
This is primarily achieved by the issuance of debt capital from Barclays Bank PLC in major currencies, but can also be achieved by subsidiaries issuing capital in local currencies.
The carrying value of the Groups foreign currency net investments in subsidiaries and branches and the foreign currency borrowings and derivatives used to hedge them as at 31st December 2008 were as follows: 3 At 31st December 2008 Functional currency of the operation involved Structural Foreign Borrowings Derivatives currency Remaining currency which hedge which hedge exposures structural net the net the net pre economic Economic currency investments investments investments hedges hedges exposures m m m m m m United States Dollar 14,577 6,019 8,558 6,720 1,838 Euro 6,336 2,922 3,414 3,125 289 Rand 3,725 1,306 2,419 164 2,255 Japanese Yen 5,009 801 4,212 4 4 Swiss Franc 3,042 2,936 101 5 5 Other 2,940 880 2,060 2,060 Total 35,629 12,678 6,499 16,452 10,009 6,443 At 31st December 2007 Functional currency of the operation involved Structural Foreign Borrowings Derivatives currency Remaining currency which hedge which hedge exposures structural net the net the net pre economic Economic currency investments investments investments hedges hedges exposures m m m m m m United States Dollar 3,273 1,000 2,273 3,575 1,302 Euro 3,690 1,506 2,184 2,387 203 Rand 3,205 2,599 606 165 441 Japanese Yen 2,986 180 2,773 33 33 Swiss Franc 2,140 2,131 9 9 Other 1,847 53 465 1,329 1,329 Total 17,141 2,739 7,968 6,434 6,127 307 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 281 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 282 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 48 Market risk continued The economic hedges represent the US Dollar and Euro Preference Shares and Reserve Capital Instruments in issue that are treated as equity under IFRS, and do not qualify as hedges for accounting purposes.
The impact of a change in the exchange rate between Sterling and any of the major currencies would be: A higher or lower Sterling equivalent value of non-Sterling denominated capital resources and risk weighted assets.
This includes a higher or lower currency translation reserve within equity, representing the retranslation of non-Sterling subsidiaries, branches and associated undertakings net of the impact of foreign exchange rate changes on derivatives and borrowings designated as hedges of net investments.
A higher or lower profit after tax, arising from changes in the exchange rates used to translate items in the consolidated income statement.
A higher or lower value of available for sale investments denominated in foreign currencies, impacting the available for sale reserve.
49 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its obligations when they fall due as a result of customer deposits being withdrawn, cash requirements from contractual commitments, or other cash outflows, such as debt maturities.
Such outflows would deplete available cash resources for client lending, trading activities and investments.
In extreme circumstances lack of liquidity could result in reductions in balance sheet and sales of assets, or potentially an inability to fulfil lending commitments.
The risk that it will be unable to do so is inherent in all banking operations and can be affected by a range of institution-specific and market-wide events including, but not limited to, credit events, merger and acquisition activity, systemic shocks and natural disasters.
Liquidity risk management and measurement Liquidity management within the Group has several components.
Intraday liquidity The need to monitor, manage and control intraday liquidity in real time is recognised by the Group as a critical process: any failure to meet specific intraday commitments would have significant consequences, such as visible market disruption.
The Group policy is that each operation must ensure that it has access to sufficient intraday liquidity to meet any obligations it may have to clearing and settlement systems.
Major currency payment flows and payment system collateral are monitored and managed in real time to ensure that at all times there is sufficient collateral to make payments.
The Group actively engages in payment system development to help ensure that new payment systems are robust.
Day to day funding Day to day funding is managed through limits on wholesale borrowings, secured borrowings and funding mismatches.
These ensure that on any day and over any period there is a limited amount of refinancing required.
These requirements include replacement of funds as liabilities mature or are borrowed by customers.
The Retail and Commercial Bank together with Wealth maintain no reliance on wholesale funding.
The Group maintains an active presence in global money markets through Barclays Capital, and monitors and manages the wholesale money market capacity for the Groups name to enable that to happen.
In addition to cash flow management, Treasury also monitors term mismatches between assets and liabilities, as well as the level and type of undrawn lending commitments, the usage of overdraft facilities and the impact of contingent liabilities such as standby letters of credit and guarantees.
Liquid assets The Group maintains a portfolio of highly marketable assets including UK, US and Euro-area government bonds that can be sold or funded on a secured basis as protection against any unforeseen interruption to cash flow.
The Group accesses secured funding markets in these assets on a regular basis.
The Group does not rely on committed funding lines for protection against unforeseen interruptions to cash flow.
Diversification of liquidity sources Sources of liquidity are regularly reviewed to maintain a wide diversification by currency, geography, provider, product and term.
In addition, to avoid reliance on a particular group of customers or market sectors, the distribution of sources and the maturity profile of deposits are also carefully managed.
Important factors in assuring liquidity are strength of relationships and the maintenance of depositors confidence.
Such confidence is based on a number of factors including the Groups reputation and relationship with those clients, the strength of earnings and the Groups financial position.
Structural liquidity An important source of structural liquidity is provided by our core retail deposits in the UK, Europe and Africa, mainly current accounts and savings accounts.
Although current accounts are repayable on demand and savings accounts at short notice, the Groups broad base of customers numerically and by depositor type helps to protect against unexpected fluctuations.
Such accounts form a stable funding base for the Groups operations and liquidity needs.
The Group policy is to fund the balance sheet assets of the Retail and Commercial Bank together with Wealth and Head office functions on a global basis with customer deposits and capital without recourse to the wholesale markets.
This provides protection from the liquidity risk of wholesale market funding.
The exception to this policy is Absa, which has a large portion of wholesale funding due to the structural nature of the South African financial sector.
Scenario analysis and stress testing Stress testing is undertaken to assess and plan for the impact of various scenarios which may put the Groups liquidity at risk.
Treasury develops and monitors a range of stress tests on the Groups projected cash flows.
These stress scenarios include Barclays-specific scenarios such an unexpected rating downgrade and operational problems, and external scenarios such as Emerging Market crises, payment system disruption and macro-economic shocks.
The output informs both the liquidity mismatch limits and the Groups contingency funding plan.
This is maintained by Treasury and is aligned with the Group and country business resumption plans to encompass decision-making authorities, internal and external communication and, in the event of a systems failure, the restoration of liquidity management and payment systems.
The ability to raise funds is in part dependent on maintaining the Banks credit rating.
The funding impact of a credit downgrade is closely tracked.
Whilst the impact of a single downgrade may affect the price at which funding is available, the effect on liquidity is not considered material in Group terms.
| 282 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 283 49 Liquidity risk continued Year-end assessment of liquidity Barclays maintained a strong liquidity profile in 2008, sufficient to absorb the impact of a stressed funding environment.
The Group has access to a substantial pool of liquidity both in secured markets and from unsecured depositors including numerous foreign governments and central banks.
In addition, our limited reliance on securitisations as a source of funding has meant that the uncertainty in securitisation markets has not impacted our liquidity risk profile.
Whilst funding markets were extremely difficult in the latter half of 2008, and particularly since September 2008, Barclays was able to increase available liquidity, extend the term of unsecured liabilities, and reduce reliance on unsecured funding.
Barclays has participated in various government and central bank liquidity facilities, both to aid central banks implementation of monetary policy and support central bank initiatives, where participation has enabled the lengthening of the term of our refinancing.
These facilities have improved access to term funding, and helped moderate money market rates.
Global Retail and Commercial Banking The sum of liabilities in Global Retail and Commercial Banking, Barclays Wealth and Head office functions exceeds assets in those businesses.
As a result they have no reliance on wholesale funding.
The balance sheet is modelled to reflect behavioural experience in both assets and liabilities, and is managed to maintain a positive cash profile.
Throughout 2008 Global Retail and Commercial Banking continued to grow the amount of customer deposits despite competitive pressures.
Barclays Capital Barclays Capital manages liquidity to be self-funding through wholesale sources, managing access to liquidity to ensure that potential cash outflows in a stressed environment are covered.
Funding reliability is maintained by accessing a wide variety of investors and geographies and by building and maintaining strong relationships with these providers of liquidity.
The depositors include asset managers, money market funds, corporates, government bodies, central banks and other financial institutions.
Deposits are predominantly sourced from Western Europe and North America.
Unsecured Funding Additionally, unsecured funding is managed within specific term limits.
The term of unsecured liabilities has been extended, with average life increasing year over year.
Our capital markets debt issuance includes issues of senior and subordinated debt in US registered offerings and medium-term note programmes and European medium-term note programs.
Substantially all of our unsecured senior issuance is without covenants that trigger increased cost or accelerate maturity.
Secured Funding Barclays funds securities based on liquidity characteristics.
Limits are in place for each security asset class reflecting liquidity in the cash and financing markets for these assets.
The vast majority of assets funded in repurchase and stock loan transactions are fundable within central bank facilities excluding Bank of England Emergency facilities and the Federal Reserve Primary Dealer Credit Facility.
These are largely composed of G7 government securities, US mortgage agency debentures and mortgage backed securities, investment grade corporate securities and listed equities.
Liquidity risk to secured funding is also mitigated by: selecting reliable counterparties 3 maintaining term financing and by limiting the amount of overnight funding limiting overall secured funding usage Readily available liquidity Substantial resources are maintained to offset maturing deposits and debt.
These readily available assets are sufficient to absorb stress level losses of liquidity from unsecured as well as contingent cash outflows, such as collateral requirements on ratings downgrades.
The sources of liquidity and contingent liquidity are from a wide variety of sources, including deposits held with central banks and unencumbered securities.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 283 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 284 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 49 Liquidity risk continued Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities Details of contractual maturities for assets and liabilities form an important source of information for the management of liquidity risk.
In order to more accurately reflect the expected behaviour of the Groups assets and liabilities measurement and modelling of each is constructed.
This forms the foundation of the liquidity controls.
The table below provides detail on the contractual maturity of all financial instruments and other assets and liabilities.
Derivatives other than those designated in a hedging relationship and trading portfolio assets and liabilities which are included in the on demand column at their fair value.
Liquidity risk on these items is not managed on the basis of contractual maturity since they are not held for settlement according to such maturity and will frequently be settled before contractual maturity at fair value.
Derivatives designated in a hedging relationship are included according to their contractual maturity.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows of all financial liabilities i. e nominal values, whereas the Group manages the inherent liquidity risk based on discounted expected cash inflows.
Derivative financial instruments held for trading and trading portfolio liabilities are included in the on demand column at their fair value.
At 31st December 2008 Over one year but On Within less than Over demand one year five years five years Total m m m m m Deposits from other banks 10,850 101,537 2,224 671 115,282 Items in the course of collection due to other banks 1,633 2 1,635 Customer accounts 195,728 132,927 5,249 5,807 339,711 Trading portfolio liabilities 59,474 59,474 Financial liabilities designated at fair value: held on own account 1,043 33,860 28,300 30,427 93,630 Derivative financial instruments: held for trading 964,071 964,071 designated for risk management 1,809 1,671 1,206 4,686 Debt securities in issue 2,567 108,955 34,510 11,853 157,885 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 69 181,895 547 24 182,535 Subordinated liabilities 1,273 10,166 22,593 34,032 Other financial liabilities 4,573 1,572 6,145 Total financial liabilities 1,235,435 566,831 84,239 72,581 1,959,086 Off balance sheet items Loan commitments 222,801 30,502 5,799 917 260,019 Other commitments 493 318 340 1,151 Total off balance sheet items 223,294 30,820 6,139 917 261,170 Total financial liabilities and off balance sheet items 1,458,729 597,651 90,378 73,498 2,220,256 At 31st December 2007 Over one year but not On Within more than Over demand one year five years five years Total m m m m m Deposits from other banks 16,288 72,533 2,099 275 91,195 Items in the course of collection due to other banks 1,781 11 1,792 Customer accounts 174,269 112,875 3,739 10,280 301,163 Trading portfolio liabilities 65,402 65,402 Financial liabilities designated at fair value: held on own account 655 34,008 25,870 31,868 92,401 Derivative financial instruments: held for trading 247,378 247,378 designated for risk management 226 479 186 891 Debt securities in issue 698 91,201 22,926 15,020 129,845 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 169,725 146 23 169,894 Subordinated liabilities 463 4,964 17,875 23,302 Other financial liabilities 2,968 1,456 4,424 Total financial liabilities 506,471 484,010 61,679 75,527 1,127,687 Off balance sheet items Loan commitments 183,784 3,111 4,513 963 192,371 Other commitments 453 200 145 12 810 Total off balance sheet items 184,237 3,311 4,658 975 193,181 Total financial liabilities and off balance sheet items 690,708 487,321 66,337 76,502 1,320,868 Financial liabilities designated at fair value in respect of linked liabilities under investment contracts have been excluded from this analysis as the Group is not exposed to liquidity risk arising from them.
Any request for funds from investors would be met simultaneously from the linked assets.
The balances in the above table will not agree directly to the balances in the consolidated balance sheet as the table incorporates all cash flows, on an undiscounted basis, related to both principal as well as those associated with all future coupon payments.
The principal due under perpetual subordinated liability instruments has been included in the over five years category.
Further interest payments have not been included on this amount, which according to their strict contractual terms, could carry on indefinitely.
| 286 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 287 50 Fair value of financial instruments The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable willing parties.
Comparison of carrying amounts and fair values The following table summarises the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities presented on the Groups balance sheet, and their fair values differentiating between financial assets and liabilities subsequently measured at fair value and those subsequently measured at amortised cost: 2008 2007 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value Notes m m m m Financial assets: Cash and balances at central banks a 30,019 30,019 5,801 5,801 Items in the course of collection from other banks a 1,695 1,695 1,836 1,836 Trading portfolio assets Treasury and other eligible bills b 4,544 4,544 2,094 2,094 Debt securities b 148,686 148,686 152,778 152,778 Equity securities b 30,535 30,535 36,307 36,307 Traded Loans b 1,070 1,070 1,780 1,780 Commodities b 802 802 732 732 Financial assets designated at fair value: held in respect of linked liabilities under investment contracts b 66,657 66,657 90,851 90,851 held under own account: Equity securities b 6,496 6,496 5,376 5,376 Loans and advances b 30,187 30,187 23,491 23,491 Debt securities b 8,628 8,628 24,217 24,217 Other financial assets designated at fair value b 9,231 9,231 3,545 3,545 Derivative financial instruments b 984,802 984,802 248,088 248,088 Loans and advances to banks c 47,707 47,594 40,120 40,106 Loans and advances to customers Residential mortgage loans c 135,077 133,605 106,619 106,615 Credit card receivables c 22,304 22,312 14,289 14,289 Other personal lending c 32,038 31,264 29,857 29,857 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances c 259,699 247,798 183,556 182,036 Finance lease receivables c 12,697 12,697 11,077 11,066 Available for sale financial instruments Treasury and other eligible bills b 4,003 4,003 2,723 2,723 3 Debt securities b 58,831 58,831 38,673 38,673 Equity securities b 2,142 2,142 1,676 1,676 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed c 130,354 129,296 183,075 183,075 Financial liabilities: Deposits from banks d 114,910 114,912 90,546 90,508 Items in the course of collection due to other banks a 1,635 1,635 1,792 1,792 Customer accounts: Current and demand accounts d 82,515 82,515 80,006 80,006 Savings accounts d 76,008 76,008 74,599 74,599 Other time deposits d 176,982 176,966 140,382 141,917 Trading portfolio liabilities: Treasury and other eligible bills b 79 79 486 486 Debt securities b 44,309 44,309 50,506 50,506 Equity securities b 14,919 14,919 13,702 13,702 Commodities b 167 167 708 708 Financial liabilities designated at fair value: Held on own account b 76,892 76,892 74,489 74,489 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts b 69,183 69,183 92,639 92,639 Derivative financial instruments b 968,072 968,072 248,288 248,288 Debt securities in issue d 149,567 148,736 120,228 120,176 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent d 182,285 182,285 169,429 169,429 Subordinated liabilities d 29,842 22,944 18,150 17,410 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 287 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 288 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 50 Fair value of financial instruments continued Notes a Fair value approximates carrying value due to the short-term nature of these financial assets and liabilities.
b The carrying value of financial instruments subsequently measured at fair value including those held for trading, designated at fair value, derivatives and available for sale is determined in accordance with accounting policy 7 on page 194 and further description and analysis of these fair values are set out below.
c The carrying value of financial assets subsequently measured at amortised cost including loans and advances, and other lending such as reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed is determined in accordance with the accounting policy 7 on page 194.
In many cases the fair value disclosed approximates the carrying value because the instruments are short term in nature or have interest rates that reprice frequently.
In other cases, fair value is determined using discounted cash flows, applying either market derived interest rates or, where the counterparty is a bank, rates currently offered by other financial institutions for placings with similar characteristics.
Additionally, fair value can be determined by applying an average of available regional and industry segmental credit spreads to the loan portfolio, taking the contractual maturity of the loan facilities into consideration.
d The carrying value of financial liabilities subsequently measured at amortised cost including customer accounts and other deposits such as repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent, debt securities in issue, subordinated liabilities is determined in accordance with the accounting policy 7 on page 194.
In many cases, the fair value disclosed approximates the carrying value because the instruments are short term in nature or have interest rates that reprice frequently such as customer accounts and other deposits and short term debt securities.
Fair values of other debt securities in issue are based on quoted prices where available, or where these are unavailable, are estimated using a valuation model.
Fair values for dated and undated convertible and non-convertible loan capital are based on quoted market rates for the issue concerned or similar issues with similar terms and conditions.
Valuation methodology The table below shows the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are recognised and measured at fair value analysed by valuation technique.
A description of the nature of the techniques used to calculate valuations based on observable inputs and valuations based on unobservable inputs is set out on the next page.
At 31st December 2008 Valuations Valuations based on unobservable inputs based on observable Vanilla Exotic inputs products products Total Total m m m m m Trading portfolio assets 174,168 11,469 11,469 185,637 Financial assets designated at fair value: held on own account 37,618 16,559 365 16,924 54,542 held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 66,657 66,657 Derivative financial assets 970,028 12,436 2,338 14,774 984,802 Available for sale assets 63,149 1,827 1,827 64,976 Total assets 1,311,620 42,291 2,703 44,994 1,356,614 Trading portfolio liabilities 59,436 38 38 59,474 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 71,044 290 5,558 5,848 76,892 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 69,183 69,183 Derivative financial liabilities 959,518 6,151 2,403 8,554 968,072 Total liabilities 1,159,181 6,479 7,961 14,440 1,173,621 At 31st December 2007 Valuations Valuations based on unobservable inputs based on observable Vanilla Exotic inputs products products Total Total m m m m m Trading portfolio assets 189,234 4,457 4,457 193,691 Financial assets designated at fair value: held on own account 39,810 16,819 16,819 56,629 held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 90,851 90,851 Derivative financial assets 245,381 1,118 1,589 2,707 248,088 Available for sale assets 42,262 810 810 43,072 Total assets 607,538 23,204 1,589 24,793 632,331 Trading portfolio liabilities 65,360 42 42 65,402 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 68,317 951 5,221 6,172 74,489 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 92,639 92,639 Derivative financial liabilities 243,906 1,178 3,204 4,382 248,288 Total liabilities 470,222 2,171 8,425 10,596 480,818 Of the total Group assets of 1,356,614m measured at fair value, 44,994m 2007: 24,793m were valued using models with unobservable inputs.
While the derivative assets associated with our Monoline exposure accounted for a significant portion of the increase in assets valued using unobservable inputs, further increases arose due to weakness in Sterling, as well as increased illiquidity in the market.
| 288 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 289 50 Fair value of financial instruments continued The nature of the valuation techniques set out in the table above are summarised as follows: Valuations based on observable inputs Valuations based on observable inputs include Financial instruments for which their valuations are determined by reference to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets where the quoted price is readily available and the price represents actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis: Financial instruments valued using recent arms length market transactions or with reference to the current fair value of similar instruments: Linear financial instruments such as swaps and forwards which are valued using market standard pricing techniques: Options that are commonly traded in markets whereby all the inputs to the market-standard pricing models are deemed observable.
Valuations based on unobservable inputs Valuations based on unobservable inputs include: a Vanilla products Products valued using simple models, such as discounted cash flow or Black Scholes models, where some of the inputs are not observable.
This would include, for example, commercial loans, commercial mortgage backed securities, selected mortgage products, Alt As and subprime loans, as well as longdated vanilla options with tenors different to those commonly traded in the markets and hence unobservable volatilities.
b Exotic products Exotic products are over-the-counter products that are relatively bespoke, not commonly traded in the markets, and are valued using sophisticated mathematical models where some of the inputs are not observable.
In determining the value of vanilla and exotic products the following are the principal inputs that can require judgement: i Volatility Volatility is a critical input to all option pricing models, across all asset classes.
In most cases volatility is observable from the vanilla options that are traded across the various asset classes but, on occasion, volatility is unobservable, for example, for long maturity option.
ii Correlation Across asset classes, correlation is another important input to some pricing models, for example for products whose value depends on two equity indices.
In some developed markets there are products traded from which correlation can be implied, for example spread products in commodities.
iii Model input parameters Some exotic models have input parameters that define the models, for example interest rate models tend to have parameters that are needed to capture the rich dynamics of the yield curve.
These model parameters are typically not directly observable but may be inferred from observable inputs.
iv Spreads to discount rates For certain product types, particularly credit related such as asset backed financial instruments, the discount rate is set at a spread to the standard discount LIBOR rates.
In these cases, in addition to standard discount rates, the spread is a significant input to the valuation.
For some assets this spread data can be unobservable.
3 v Default rates and recovery rates In certain credit products valued using pricing models, default rates and recovery rates may be necessary inputs.
Some default rates and recovery rates are deemed observable but for others which are less frequently traded in the markets they may not be.
vi Prepayment rates For products in the securitisation businesses, for example mortgage backed securities, prepayment rates are key inputs.
Some of the drivers of prepayment are understood such as the nature of assets loans, e. g. quality of mortgage pool and macroeconomic factors however, future prepayment rates are considered unobservable.
The following summary sets out the principal instruments whose valuation may involve judgmental inputs.
Corporate bonds Corporate bonds are generally valued using observable quoted prices or recently executed transactions.
Where observable price quotations are not available, the fair value is determined based on cash flow models where significant inputs may include yield curves, bond or single name credit default swap spreads.
Mortgage whole loans Wherever possible, the fair value of mortgage whole loans is determined using observable quoted prices or recently executed transactions for comparable assets.
Where observable price quotations or benchmark proxies are not available, fair value is determined using cash flow models where significant inputs include yield curves, collateral specific loss assumptions, asset specific prepayment assumptions, yield spreads and expected default rates.
Commercial mortgage backed securities and asset backed securities Commercial mortgage backed securities and asset backed securities ABS residential mortgages, credit cards, auto loans, student loans and leases are valued using observable information to the greatest extent possible.
Wherever possible, the fair value is determined using quoted prices or recently executed transactions.
Where observable price quotations are not available, fair value is determined based on cash flow models where the significant inputs may include yield curves, credit spreads and prepayment rates.
Securities that are backed by the residual cash flows of an asset portfolio are generally valued using similar cash flow models.
The fair value of home equity loan bonds are determined using models which use scenario analysis with significant inputs including age, rating, internal grade, and index prices.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 289 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 290 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 50 Fair value of financial instruments continued Collateralised debt obligations The valuation of collateralised debt obligations CDOs notes is first based on an assessment of the probability of an event of default occurring due to a credit deterioration.
This is determined by reference to the probability of event of default occurring and the probability of exercise of contractual rights related to event of default.
The notes are then valued by determining appropriate valuation multiples to be applied to the contractual cash flows.
These are based on inputs including the prospective cash flow performance of the underlying securities, the structural features of the transaction and the net asset value of the underlying portfolio.
Private equity The fair value of private equity is determined using appropriate valuation methodologies which, dependent on the nature of the investment, may include discounted cash flow analysis, enterprise value comparisons with similar companies, price:earnings comparisons and turnover multiples.
For each investment the relevant methodology is applied consistently over time.
OTC Derivatives Derivative contracts can be exchange traded or over the counter OTC.
OTC derivative contracts include forward, swap and option contracts related to interest rates, bonds, foreign currencies, credit standing of reference entities, equity prices, fund levels, commodity prices or indices on these assets.
The fair value of OTC derivative contracts are modelled using a series of techniques, including closed form analytical formulae such as the Black-Scholes option pricing model and simulation based models.
The choice of model is dependant on factors such as: the complexity of the product, inherent risks and hedging strategy: statistical behaviour of the underlying, and ability of the model to price consistently with observed market transactions.
For many pricing models there is no material subjectivity because the methodologies employed do not necessitate significant judgement and the pricing inputs are observed from actively quoted markets, as is the case for generic interest rate swaps and option markets.
In the case of more established derivative products, the pricing models used are widely accepted and used by the other market participants.
Significant inputs used in these models may include yield curves, credit spreads, default rates, recovery rates, dividend rates, volatility of underlying interest rates, equity prices or foreign exchange rates and, in some cases, correlation between these inputs.
These inputs are determined with reference to quoted prices, recently executed trades, independent market quotes and consensus data.
New, long dated or complex derivative products may require a greater degree of judgement in the implementation of appropriate valuation techniques, due to the complexity of the valuation assumptions and the reduced observability of inputs.
The valuation of more complex products may use more generic derivatives as a component to calculating the overall value.
Derivatives where valuation involves a significant degree of judgement include: Fund derivatives Fund derivatives are derivatives whose underlyings include mutual funds, hedge funds, indices and multi-asset portfolios.
They are valued using underlying fund prices, yield curves and available market information on the level of the hedging risk.
Some fund derivatives are valued using unobservable information, generally where the level of the hedging risk is not observable in the market.
These are valued taking account of risk of the underlying fund or collection of funds, diversification of the fund by asset, concentration by geographic sector, strategy of the fund, size of the transaction and concentration of specific fund managers.
Commodity derivatives Commodity derivatives are valued using models where the significant inputs may include interest rate yield curves, commodity price curves, volatility of the underlying commodities and, in some cases, correlation between these inputs, which are generally observable.
This approach is applied to base metal, precious metal, energy, power, gas, emissions, soft commodities and freight positions.
Due to the significant time span in the various market closes, curves are constructed using differentials to a benchmark curve to ensure that all curves are valued using the dominant market base price.
Structured credit derivatives Collateralised synthetic obligations CSOs are structured credit derivatives which reference the loss profile of a portfolio of loans, debts or synthetic underlyings.
The reference asset can be a corporate credit or an asset backed credit.
For CSOs that reference corporate credits an analytical model is used.
For CSOs on asset backed underlyings, due to the path dependent nature of a CSO on an amortising portfolio a Monte Carlo simulation is used rather than analytic approximation.
The expected loss probability for each reference credit in the portfolio is derived from the single name credit default swap spread curve and in addition, for ABS references, a prepayment rate assumption.
A simulation is then used to compute survival time which allows us to calculate the marginal loss over each payment period by reference to estimated recovery rates.
Significant inputs include prepayment rates, cumulative default rates, and recovery rates.
Sensitivity analysis of valuations using unobservable inputs As part of our risk management processes, stress tests are applied on the significant unobservable parameters to generate a range of potentially possible alternative valuations.
The financial instruments that most impact this sensitivity analysis are those with the more illiquid and or structured portfolios.
The stresses are applied independently and do not take account of any cross correlation between separate asset classes that would reduce the overall effect on the valuations.
At 31st December 2008 Significant Potential effect recorded Potential effect recorded unobservable in profit or loss in equity a parameters Favourable Unfavourable Favourable Unfavourable m m m m Asset backed securities and loans and derivatives with asset backed underlyings iii, iv, v, vi 1,470 1,896 46 54 b Private equity iii, iv 209 208 64 142 Derivative assets and liabilities and financial liabilities designated at fair value: Derivative exposure to Monoline insurers iii, iv, v, vi 21 329 Funds derivatives and structured notes iii 226 123 Other structured derivatives and notes i, ii, iii 304 196 Other i, ii, iii, iv, v, vi 55 43 Total 2,285 2,795 110 196 Notes a i - vi refer to valuation inputs listed on page 289. b Available for sale assets Private Equity and assets designated at fair value Principal Investments.
| 290 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 291 50 Fair value of financial instruments continued At 31st December 2007 Significant Potential effect recorded Potential effect recorded unobservable in profit or loss in equity a parameters Favourable Unfavourable Favourable Unfavourable m m m m Asset backed securities and loans and derivatives with asset backed underlyings iii, iv, v, vi 868 868 5 5 Private equity iii, iv 75 75 36 36 Derivative assets and liabilities and financial liabilities designated at fair value: Fund derivatives and structured notes iii 441 147 Other structured derivatives and notes i, ii, iii 57 56 Other i, ii, iii, iv, v, vi 3 1 Total 1,444 1,147 41 41 The effect of stressing the significant unobservable assumptions to a range of reasonably possible alternatives would be to increase the fair values by up to 2.4bn 2007: 1.5bn or to decrease the fair values by up to 3.0bn 2007: 1.2bn with substantially all the potential effect being recorded in profit or loss rather than equity.
Asset backed securities and loans, and derivatives with asset backed underlyings Asset backed securities, loans and related derivatives contribute most to the sensitivity analysis as at 31st December 2008.
The stress effect increased in this area in 2008 due to continued market dislocation and increased levels of unobservability.
The stresses having the most significant impact on the analysis are: for commercial mortgage backed securities and loans, changing the spreads to discount rates to close to originated levels favourable stress and increasing spreads to between 2 and 6% unfavourable stress : for residential mortgage backed securities and loans, changing the spreads to discount rates by -10%: and for collateralised debt obligations that reference asset backed securities and loans, primarily by changing the spreads to discount rates by -20%.
Private equity The sensitivity amounts are calculated by stressing the key valuation inputs to each individual valuation generally either price:earnings ratios or EBITDA analysis.
The stresses are then determined by comparing these metrics with a range of similar companies.
Derivative exposure to Monoline insurers The favourable stress is calculated by reference to counterparty quotes for second loss protection on the appropriate reference obligations.
The unfavourable stress is calculated by applying a default scenario to the monolines that are rated BBB or below.
Fund derivatives and structured notes The valuation of these transactions takes into account the risk that the underlying fund-linked asset value will decrease too quickly to be able to re-hedge with risk-free instruments gap risk.
The sensitivity amounts are determined by applying stresses to market quotes for hedging the relevant gap risk.
The unfavourable stress is based on a shift in the gap risk price of 34bp, the favourable stress applies to a pricing level that assumes no gap event will occur.
Other structured derivatives and notes 3 The sensitivity amounts are calculated principally by adjusting the relevant correlation sensitivity used in the valuation model by a range based on structured derivative data available in consensuses pricing services.
The range applied to correlation sensitivity is an adverse or beneficial move of 15bp applied to the correlation sensitivity.
Unrecognised gains as a result of the use of valuation models using unobservable inputs The amount that has yet to be recognised in income that relates to the difference between the transaction price the fair value at initial recognition and the amount that would have arisen had valuation models using unobservable inputs been used on initial recognition, less amounts subsequently recognised, was as follows: At 31st December 2008 2007 m m At 1st January 154 534 New transactions 77 134 Amounts recognised in profit or loss during the year 103 514 At 31st December 128 154 The net asset fair value position of the related financial instruments increased by 16,357m for the year ended 31st December 2008 31st December 2007: 2,842m.
In many cases these changes in fair values were offset by changes in fair values of other financial instruments, which were priced in active markets or valued by using a valuation technique which is supported by observable market prices or rates, or by transactions which have been realised.
Notes a i - vi refer to valuation inputs listed on page 289.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 291 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 292 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 51 Reclassification of financial assets held for trading On 16th December the Group reclassified certain financial assets originally classified as held for trading that were no longer held for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term out of fair value through profit or loss to loans and receivables.
In making this reclassification, the Group identified those trading assets, comprising portfolios of bank-issued fixed rate notes and mortgage and other asset backed securities, for which it had a clear change of intent to hold for the foreseeable future or until maturity rather than to trade in the short term.
At the time of the transfer, the Group identified rare circumstances permitting such reclassification, being severe illiquidity in the relevant market.
The following table shows carrying values and fair values of the assets reclassified at 16th December 2008.
16th December 2008 31st December 2008 Carrying Carrying Fair value value value m m m Trading assets reclassified to loans and receivables 4,046 3,986 3,984 Total financial assets reclassified to loans and receivables 4,046 3,986 3,984 As at the date of reclassification, the effective interest rates on reclassified trading assets ranged from 0.18% to 9.29% with expected recoverable cash flows of 7.4bn.
If the reclassifications had not been made, the Groups income statement for 2008 would have included unrealised fair value losses on the reclassified trading assets of 1.5m.
After reclassification, the reclassified financial assets contributed the following amounts to the 2008 income before income taxes.
2008 m Net interest income 4 Provision for credit losses Income before income taxes on reclassified trading assets 4 Prior to reclassification in 2008, 144m of unrealised fair value losses on the reclassified trading assets was recognised in the consolidated income statement for 2008 2007: 218m loss.
52 Capital Management Barclays operates a centralised capital management model, considering both regulatory and economic capital.
The capital management strategy is to continue to maximise shareholder value through optimising both the level and mix of capital resources.
Decisions on the allocation of capital resources are conducted as part of the strategic planning review.
The Groups capital management objectives are to: Maintain sufficient capital resources to meet the minimum regulatory capital requirements set by the FSA and the US Federal Reserve Banks requirements that a financial holding company be well capitalised.
Maintain sufficient capital resources to support the Groups risk appetite and economic capital requirements.
Support the Groups credit rating.
Ensure locally regulated subsidiaries can meet their minimum capital requirements.
Allocate capital to businesses to support the Groups strategic objectives, including optimising returns on economic and regulatory capital.
External Regulatory Capital Requirements The Group is subject to minimum capital requirements imposed by the Financial Services Authority FSA, following guidelines developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision the Basel Committee and implemented in the UK via European Union Directives.
Under Basel II, effective from 1st January 2008, the Group has approval by the FSA to use the advanced approaches to credit and operational risk management.
Pillar 1 capital requirements are generated using the Groups risk models.
Under Pillar 2 of Basel II, the Group is subject to an overall regulatory capital requirement based on individual capital guidance ICG received from the FSA.
The ICG imposes additional capital requirements in excess of Pillar 1 minimum capital requirements.
Outside the UK, the Group has operations and main regulators located in continental Europe, in particular France, Germany, Spain, Portugal and Italy local central banks and other regulatory authorities : Asia Pacific various regulatory authorities including the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the Japanese FSA and the Monetary Authority of Singapore : Africa, where the Groups operations are headquartered in Johannesburg, South Africa The South African Reserve Bank and the Financial Services Board FSB and the United States of America the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System FRB and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Group manages its capital resources to ensure that those Group entities that are subject to local capital adequacy regulation in individual countries meet their minimum capital requirements.
Local management manages compliance with subsidiary entity minimum regulatory capital requirements with reporting to local Asset and Liability Committees and to Treasury Committee, as required.
| 292 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 293 52 Capital Management continued Regulatory Capital The table below provides details of the regulatory capital resources managed by the Group.
Basel ll Basel I 2008 2007 m m Total qualifying Tier 1 capital 37,250 27,408 Total qualifying Tier 2 capital 22,333 17,123 Total deductions 856 1,889 Total net capital resources 58,727 42,642 Insurance businesses Insurance businesses are subject to separate regulation regarding Capital management and have constraints on the transfer of capital.
Capital resource requirements are assessed at company level in accordance with local laws and regulations.
However, the requirement is that each life fund should be able to meet its own liabilities.
In the event that this should not be the case, shareholders equity would be required to meet its liabilities to the extent that they could not otherwise be met.
The capital resource requirement of the insurance businesses at 31st December 2008 was 192m 31st December 2007: 216m.
53 Segmental reporting The following section analyses the Groups performance by business.
For management and reporting purposes, Barclays is organised into the following business groupings: Global Retail and Commercial Banking UK Retail Banking Barclays Commercial Bank Barclaycard GRCB Western Europe GRCB Emerging Markets GRCB Absa Investment Banking and Investment Management 3 Barclays Capital Barclays Global Investors Barclays Wealth Head Office Functions and Other Operations UK Retail Banking UK Retail Banking comprises Personal Customers, Home Finance, Local Business, Consumer Lending and Barclays Financial Planning.
This cluster of businesses aims to build broader and deeper relationships with its Personal and Local Business customers through providing a wide range of products and financial services.
Personal Customers and Home Finance provide access to current account and savings products, Woolwich branded mortgages and general insurance.
Consumer Lending provides unsecured loan and protection products and Barclays Financial Planning provides investment advice and products.
Local Business provides banking services, including money transmission, to small businesses.
Barclays Commercial Bank Barclays Commercial Bank provides banking services to organisations with an annual turnover of more than 1m.
Customers are served via a network of relationship and industry sector specialists, which provides solutions constructed from a comprehensive suite of banking products, support, expertise and services, including specialist asset financing and leasing facilities.
Customers are also offered access to the products and expertise of other businesses in the Group, particularly Barclays Capital, Barclaycard and Barclays Wealth.
Barclaycard Barclaycard is a multi-brand credit card and consumer lending business which also processes card payments for retailers and merchants and issues credit and charge cards to corporate customers and the UK Government.
It is one of Europes leading credit card businesses and has an increasing presence in the United States and South Africa.
In the UK, Barclaycard comprises Barclaycard UK Cards, Barclaycard Partnerships, Barclays Partner Finance and FirstPlus.
Outside the UK, Barclaycard provides credit cards in the United States, Germany, South Africa through management of the Absa credit card portfolio and in the Scandinavian region, where Barclaycard operates through Entercard, a joint venture with Swedbank.
Barclaycard works closely with other parts of the Group, including UK Retail Banking, Barclays Commercial Bank and GRCB Western Europe and GRCB Emerging Markets, to leverage their distribution capabilities.
Global Retail and Commercial Banking Western Europe GRCB Western Europe encompasses Barclays Global Retail and Commercial Banking as well as Barclaycard operations in Spain, Italy, Portugal and France.
GRCB Western Europe serves customers through a variety of distribution channels.
GRCB Western Europe provides a variety of products including retail mortgages, current and deposit accounts, commercial lending, unsecured lending, credit cards, investments, and insurance serving the needs of Barclays retail, mass affluent, and corporate customers.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 293 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 294 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 53 Segmental reporting continued Global Retail and Commercial Banking Emerging Markets GRCB Emerging Markets encompasses Barclays Global Retail and Commercial Banking, as well as Barclaycard operations, in 14 countries organised in six geographic areas: India and Indian Ocean India, Mauritius and Seychelles : Middle East and North Africa UAE and Egypt : East and West Africa Ghana, Tanzania, Uganda and Kenya : Southern Africa Botswana, Zambia and Zimbabwe : Russia: and Pakistan from 23rd July 2008.
GRCB Emerging Markets serves its customers through a variety of distribution channels.
GRCB Emerging Markets provides a variety of traditional retail and commercial products including retail mortgages, current and deposit accounts, commercial lending, unsecured lending, credit cards, treasury and investments.
In addition to this, it provides specialist services such as Sharia compliant products and mobile banking.
Global Retail and Commercial Banking Absa GRCB Absa represents Barclays consolidation of Absa, excluding Absa Capital and Absa Card which is included as part of Barclays Capital and Barclaycard respectively.
Absa Group Limited is a South African financial services organisation serving personal, commercial and corporate customers predominantly in South Africa.
GRCB Absa serves retail customers through a variety of distribution channels and offers a full range of banking services, including current and deposit accounts, mortgages, instalment finance, credit cards, bancassurance products and wealth management services.
It also offers customised business solutions for commercial and large corporate customers.
Barclays Capital Barclays Capital is the investment banking division of Barclays that provides large corporate, institutional and government clients with solutions to their financing and risk management needs.
Barclays Capital services a wide variety of client needs, covering strategic advisory and M&A: equity and fixed income capital raising and corporate lending: and risk management across foreign exchange, interest rates, equities and commodities.
Activities are organised into three principal areas: Global Markets, which includes commodities, credit products, equities, foreign exchange, interest rate products: Investment Banking, which includes corporate advisory, Mergers and Acquisitions, equity and fixed-income capital raising and corporate lending: and Private Equity and Principal Investments.
Barclays Capital includes Absa Capital, the investment banking business of Absa.
Barclays Capital works closely with all other parts of the Group to leverage synergies from client relationships and product capabilities.
Barclays Global Investors BGI is an asset manager and a provider of investment management products and services.
BGI offers structured investment strategies such as indexing, global asset allocation and risk controlled active products including hedge funds and provides related investment services such as securities lending, cash management and portfolio transition services.
BGI collaborates with the other Barclays businesses, particularly Barclays Capital and Barclays Wealth, to develop and market products and leverage capabilities to better serve the client base.
Barclays Wealth Barclays Wealth serves high net worth, affluent and intermediary clients worldwide, providing private banking, asset management, stockbroking, offshore banking, wealth structuring and financial planning services and managed the closed life assurance activities of Barclays and Woolwich in the UK.
Barclays Wealth works closely with all other parts of the Group to leverage synergies from client relationships and product capabilities.
Head Office Functions and Other Operations Head Office Functions and Other Operations comprises head office and central support functions, businesses in transition and inter-segment adjustments.
Head office and central support functions comprises the following areas: Executive Management, Finance, Treasury, Corporate Affairs, Human Resources, Strategy and Planning, Internal Audit, Legal, Corporate Secretariat, Property, Tax, Compliance and Risk.
Costs incurred wholly on behalf of the businesses are recharged to them.
Businesses in transition principally relate to certain lending portfolios that are centrally managed with the objective of maximising recovery from the assets.
| 294 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 297 53 Segmental reporting continued Revenue by products and services An analysis of revenue from external customers by product or service is presented below: As at 31st December 2008 2007 2006 m m m Net interest income Cash and balances with central banks 174 145 91 Available for sale investments 2,355 2,580 2,811 Loans and advances to banks 1,267 1,416 903 Loans and advances to customers 23,754 19,559 16,290 Other 460 1,608 1,710 Interest income 28,010 25,308 21,805 Deposits from banks 2,189 2,720 2,819 Customer accounts 6,697 4,110 3,076 Debt securities in issue 5,910 6,651 5,282 Subordinated liabilities 1,349 878 777 Other 396 1,339 708 Interest expense 16,541 15,698 12,662 Net interest income 11,469 9,610 9,143 Net fee and commission income Brokerage fees 87 109 70 Investment management fees 1,616 1,787 1,535 Securities lending 389 241 185 Banking and credit related fees and commissions 7,208 6,363 6,031 Foreign exchange commissions 189 178 184 Fee and commission income 9,489 8,678 8,005 Fee and commission expense 1,082 970 828 Net fee and commission income 8,407 7,708 7,177 Principal transactions Rates related business 4,751 4,162 2,848 Credit related business 3,422 403 766 Net investmest income 680 1,216 962 3 Principal transactions 2,009 4,975 4,576 Net premiums from insurances contracts 1,090 1,011 1,060 Net claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts 237 492 575 Other income 377 188 214 Total income net of insurance claims 23,115 23,000 21,595 Interest income Cash and balances with central banks interest income consists of interest income from cash on deposit with central banks.
Available for sale investments interest income consists of the interest yield on debt securities, treasury bills and other eligible bills.
Loans and advances to banks interest income consists of interest income from loans and advances to other banks.
Loans and advances to customers interest income consists of interest income from loans, mortgages, advances and credit cards to customers.
Other interest income principally consists of interest income relating to reverse repurchase agreements.
Interest expense Deposits from banks interest expense consists of interest expense paid to other banks on their deposits with Barclays.
Customer accounts interest expense consists of interest expense paid to customers on their current and savings account with Barclays.
Debt securities in issue interest expense consists of interest expense paid to customers who hold Barclays debt securities in issue.
Subordinated liabilities interest expense consists of interest expense paid to customers who hold Barclays subordinated liabilities.
Other interest expense principally consists of interest expense relating to repurchase agreements and hedging activity.
Fee and commission income Brokerage fees income consists of fees charged to facilitate transactions between buyers and sellers.
The brokerage fee is charged for services such as negotiations, sales, purchases, delivery or advice on the transaction.
Investment management fees are levied on assets under management.
Securities lending fees are charged when stock is lent to third parties.
Banking and credit related fees and commissions consist of fees and commissions charged on banking and credit card transactions.
Foreign exchange commissions are earned on foreign exchange transactions with customers.
Fee and commission expense Fee and commission expense consists of fees paid to third parties to facilitate transactions between buyers and sellers.
The fee is charged for services such as negotiations, sales, purchases, delivery or advice on the transaction.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 297 C14170 Barclays B 226-298. qxp:B File 16 6 3 09 01:33 Page 298 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2008 53 Segmental reporting continued Principal transactions Rates and Credit related business consists of profits and losses arising both on the purchase and sale of trading instruments and from the revaluation to market value together with the interest income and expense from these instruments and the related funding costs.
Net investment income consists of the net gain from disposal of available for sale assets, dividend income, net gain from financial instruments designated at fair value and other investment income.
Total income net of insurance claims Net premiums from insurance contracts consists of gross premiums from insurance contracts and premiums ceded to reinsurers.
Net claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts consists of gross claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts and reinsurers share of claims incurred.
Other income consists of increase in fair value of assets held under linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts, increase in liabilities to customers under investment contracts, property rentals and other income.
Geographical information i A geographical analysis of revenues from external customers is presented below: 2008 2007 2006 m m m Attributed to the UK 12,277 13,127 12,154 Attributed to other regions Other European Union 3,633 3,374 2,882 United States 710 2,209 2,840 Africa 3,633 3,188 2,791 Rest of the World 2,862 1,102 928 Total 23,115 23,000 21,595 Individual countries included in Other European Union, Africa and Rest of the World contributing to more than 5% of income from external customers are as follows: South Africa 2,618 2,374 2,359 | 298 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 299-314. qxp:B File 17 6 3 09 01:33 Page 299 Barclays Bank PLC data Consolidated income statement 300 Consolidated balance sheet 301 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 302 Consolidated cash flow statement 303 Notes to the accounts 304 Financial data 313 3 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 299 C14170 Barclays B 299-314. qxp:B File 17 6 3 09 01:33 Page 300 Barclays Bank PLC data Consolidated income statement For the year ended 31st December 2008 2007 2006 Notes m m m Continuing operations Interest income a 28,010 25,308 21,805 Interest expense a 16,595 15,707 12,662 Net interest income 11,415 9,601 9,143 Fee and commission income b 9,489 8,682 8,005 Fee and commission expense b 1,082 970 828 Net fee and commission income 8,407 7,712 7,177 Net trading income c 1,260 3,759 3,632 Net investment income c 680 1,216 962 Principal transactions 1,940 4,975 4,594 Net premiums from insurance contracts 5 1,090 1,011 1,060 Other income f 454 224 257 Total income 23,306 23,523 22,231 Net claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts 5 237 492 575 Total income net of insurance claims 23,069 23,031 21,656 Impairment charges 7 5,419 2,795 2,154 Net income 17,650 20,236 19,502 Staff costs 8 7,779 8,405 8,169 Administration and general expenses d 5,662 4,141 3,914 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 23 630 467 455 Amortisation of intangible assets 22 291 186 136 Operating expenses 14,362 13,199 12,674 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 20 14 42 46 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 327 28 323 Gains on acquisitions 39 2,406 Profit before tax 6,035 7,107 7,197 Tax e 786 1,981 1,941 Profit after tax 5,249 5,126 5,256 Profit attributable to minority interests 403 377 342 Profit attributable to equity holders 4,846 4,749 4,914 5,249 5,126 5,256 The note numbers refer to the notes on pages 210 to 298, whereas the note letters refer to those on pages 304 to 312.
| 300 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 299-314. qxp:B File 17 6 3 09 01:33 Page 301 Barclays Bank PLC data Consolidated balance sheet As at 31st December 2008 2007 Notes m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 30,019 5,801 Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,695 1,836 Trading portfolio assets g 185,646 193,726 Financial assets designated at fair value: held on own account 13 54,542 56,629 held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 13 66,657 90,851 Derivative financial instruments 14 984,802 248,088 Loans and advances to banks 15 47,707 40,120 Loans and advances to customers 15 461,815 345,398 Available for sale financial investments h 65,016 43,256 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 17 130,354 183,075 Other assets i 6,302 5,153 Current tax assets 389 518 Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 341 377 Goodwill 21 7,625 7,014 Intangible assets 22 2,777 1,282 Property, plant and equipment 23 4,674 2,996 Deferred tax assets 19 2,668 1,463 Total assets 2,053,029 1,227,583 Liabilities Deposits from banks 114,910 90,546 Items in the course of collection due to other banks 1,635 1,792 Customer accounts 335,533 295,849 Trading portfolio liabilities 12 59,474 65,402 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 24 76,892 74,489 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 13 69,183 92,639 Derivative financial instruments 14 968,072 248,288 Debt securities in issue 153,426 120,228 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 17 182,285 169,429 Other liabilities j 12,640 10,514 Current tax liabilities 1,215 1,311 Insurance contract liabilities, including unit-linked liabilities 26 2,152 3,903 Subordinated liabilities 27 29,842 18,150 3 Deferred tax liabilities 19 304 855 Provisions 28 535 830 Retirement benefit liabilities 30 1,357 1,537 Total liabilities 2,009,455 1,195,762 Shareholders equity Called up share capital k 2,398 2,382 Share premium account k 12,060 10,751 Other reserves l 1,723 170 Other shareholders equity m 2,564 2,687 Retained earnings l 22,457 14,222 Shareholders equity excluding minority interests 41,202 29,872 Minority interests n 2,372 1,949 Total shareholders equity 43,574 31,821 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 2,053,029 1,227,583 The note numbers refer to the notes on pages 210 to 298, whereas the note letters refer to those on pages 304 to 312.
These financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 5th March 2009.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 301 C14170 Barclays B 299-314. qxp:B File 17 6 3 09 01:33 Page 302 Barclays Bank PLC data Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense For the year ended 31st December 2008 2007 2006 m m m Available for sale reserve: Net losses gains from changes in fair value 1,757 389 107 Losses transferred to net profit due to impairment 382 13 86 Net gains transferred to net profit on disposal 209 563 327 Net gains losses transferred to net profit due to fair value hedging 2 68 14 Cash flow hedging reserve: Net gains losses from changes in fair value 305 106 437 Net losses gains transferred to net profit 71 253 50 Currency translation differences 2,407 54 781 Tax 841 54 253 Other 56 22 25 Amounts included directly in equity 1,982 396 1,110 Profit after tax 5,249 5,126 5,256 Total recognised income and expense for the year 7,231 5,522 4,146 Attributable to: Equity holders 6,654 5,135 4,132 Minority interests 577 387 14 7,231 5,522 4,146 | 302 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 299-314. qxp:B File 17 6 3 09 01:33 Page 303 Barclays Bank PLC data Consolidated cash flow statement For the year ended 31st December 2008 2007 2006 m m m Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities: Profit before tax 6,035 7,107 7,197 Adjustment for non-cash items: Allowance for impairment 5,419 2,795 2,154 Depreciation and amortisation and impairment of property, plant, equipment and intangibles 951 669 612 Other provisions, including pensions 804 753 558 Net profit from associates and joint ventures 14 42 46 Net profit on disposal of investments and property, plant and equipment 371 862 778 Net profit from disposal of associates and joint ventures 26 263 Net profit from disposal of subsidiaries 327 2 60 Net gains on acquisitions 2,406 Other non-cash movements 830 1,471 1,661 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Net increase in loans and advances to banks and customers 58,432 77,987 27,385 Net increase in deposits and debt securities in issue 76,886 91,451 46,944 Net increase decrease in derivative financial instruments 17,529 2,144 1,196 Net decrease increase in trading portfolio assets 26,945 18,245 18,333 Net decrease increase in trading liabilities 5,928 6,472 310 Net decrease increase in financial investments 5,229 4,379 1,538 Net increase decrease in other assets 3,005 1,296 1,527 Net decrease in other liabilities 492 1,056 1,580 Tax paid 1,725 1,583 2,141 Net cash from operating activities 32,870 10,198 10,057 Purchase of available for sale financial investments 57,756 26,947 47,109 Proceeds from sale or redemption of available for sale financial investments 51,429 38,423 46,069 Purchase of intangible assets 687 263 212 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 1,720 1,241 654 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 799 617 786 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 961 270 248 Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 238 383 15 Increase in investment in subsidiaries 157 668 432 Decrease in investment in subsidiaries 19 57 44 Acquisition of associates and joint ventures 96 220 162 Disposal of associates and joint ventures 137 145 739 Other cash flows associated with investing activities 17 3 Net cash from investing activities 8,755 10,016 1,177 Dividends paid 1,796 3,418 2,373 Proceeds from borrowings and issuance of debt securities 9,645 4,625 2,493 Repayments of borrowings and redemption of debt securities 1,207 683 366 Net issue of shares and other equity instruments 1,327 1,355 585 Capital injection from Barclays PLC 5,137 1,434 Net issues of shares to minority interests 11 199 226 Net cash from financing activities 13,117 3,512 565 Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 5,801 654 552 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 31,431 2,676 9,997 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 33,078 30,402 20,405 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 64,509 33,078 30,402 Cash and cash equivalents comprise: Cash and balances at central banks 30,019 5,801 6,795 Loans and advances to banks 47,707 40,120 30,926 Less: non-cash amounts and amounts with original maturity greater than three months 15,428 19,376 15,892 32,279 20,744 15,034 Available for sale treasury and other eligible bills 65,016 43,256 51,952 Less: non-cash and amounts with original maturity greater than three months 62,916 41,872 50,933 2,100 1,384 1,019 Trading portfolio assets 185,646 193,726 177,884 Less: non-cash and amounts with maturity greater than three months 185,535 188,591 170,346 111 5,135 7,538 Other 14 16 64,509 33,078 30,402 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 303 C14170 Barclays B 299-314. qxp:B File 17 6 3 09 01:33 Page 304 Barclays Bank PLC data Notes to the accounts a Net interest income 2008 2007 2006 m m m Cash and balances with central banks 174 145 91 Available for sale investments 2,355 2,580 2,811 Loans and advances to banks 1,267 1,416 903 Loans and advances to customers 23,754 19,559 16,290 Other 460 1,608 1,710 Interest income 28,010 25,308 21,805 Deposits from banks 2,189 2,720 2,819 Customer accounts 6,714 4,110 3,076 Debt securities in issue 5,947 6,651 5,282 Subordinated liabilities 1,349 878 777 Other 396 1,348 708 Interest expense 16,595 15,707 12,662 Net interest income 11,415 9,601 9,143 Interest income includes 135m 2007: 113m, 2006: 98m accrued on impaired loans.
Included in net interest income is hedge ineffectiveness as detailed in Note 14. b Net fee and commission income 2008 2007 2006 m m m Fee and commission income Brokerage fees 87 109 70 Investment management fees 1,616 1,787 1,535 Securities lending 389 241 185 Banking and credit related fees and commissions 7,208 6,367 6,031 Foreign exchange commissions 189 178 184 Fee and commission income 9,489 8,682 8,005 Fee and commission expense 1,082 970 828 Net fee and commission income 8,407 7,712 7,177 c Principal transactions 2008 2007 2006 m m m Rates related business 4,682 4,162 2,866 Credit related business 3,422 403 766 Net trading income 1,260 3,759 3,632 Net gain from disposal of available for sale assets 212 560 307 Dividend income 196 26 15 Net gain from financial instruments designated at fair value 33 293 447 Other investment income 239 337 193 Net investment income 680 1,216 962 Principal transactions 1,940 4,975 4,594 Net trading income includes the profits and losses arising both on the purchase and sale of trading instruments and from the revaluation to fair value, together with the interest income earned from these instruments and the related funding cost.
This included a 1,272m gain 2007: 640m gain, 2006: 480m gain that was earned in foreign exchange dealings.
| 304 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 299-314. qxp:B File 17 6 3 09 01:33 Page 305 c Principal transactions continued The net gain on financial liabilities designated at fair value included within principal transactions was 3,328m 2007: 231m loss, 2006: 920m loss, all of which was included within net trading income.
Net trading income includes the net gain from widening of credit spreads relating to Barclays Capital issued notes held at fair value was 1,663m 2007: 658m, 2006: nil.
d Administration and general expenses 2008 2007 2006 m m m Administrative expenses 5,149 3,978 3,980 Impairment charges releases : property and equipment Note 23 33 2 14 intangible assets Note 22 3 14 7 goodwill Note 21 111 Operating lease rentals 520 414 345 Gain on property disposals 148 267 432 Administration and general expenses 5,662 4,141 3,914 Auditors remuneration 2008 Audit Taxation Other Audit related services services Total m m m m m Audit of the Groups annual accounts 12 12 Other services: Fees payable for the audit of the Banks associates pursuant to legislation 20 20 Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation 2 2 Other services relating to taxation 10 10 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Bank or any of its associates 3 3 Other 4 15 Total auditors remuneration 32 6 10 4 52 3 2007 Audit Taxation Other Audit related services services Total m m m m m Audit of the Groups annual accounts 7 7 Other services: Fees payable for the audit of the Banks associates pursuant to legislation 12 12 Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation 62 8 Other services relating to taxation 8 8 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Bank or any of its associates 5 5 Other 2 24 Total auditors remuneration 25 487 44 2006 Audit Taxation Other Audit related services services Total m m m m m Audit of the Groups annual accounts 7 7 Other services: Fees payable for the audit of the Banks associates pursuant to legislation 11 11 Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation 10 1 11 Other services relating to taxation 6 6 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Bank or any of its associates 4 4 Other 4 15 Total auditors remuneration 28 5 6 5 44 The figures shown in the above table relate to fees paid to  LLP and its associates.
Fees paid to other auditors not associated with  LLP in respect of the audit of the Banks subsidiaries were 3m 2007: 2m, 2006: 2m.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 305 C14170 Barclays B 299-314. qxp:B File 17 6 3 09 01:33 Page 306 Barclays Bank PLC data Notes to the accounts d Administration and general expenses continued Fees payable for the audit of the Banks associates pursuant to legislation comprise the fees for the statutory audit of the subsidiaries and associated pension schemes both inside and outside Great Britain and fees for the work performed by the associates of  LLP in respect of the consolidated financial statements of the Bank.
Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation comprise services in relation to statutory and regulatory filings.
These includes audit services for the review of the interim financial information under the Listing Rules of the UK listing authority and fees paid for reporting under Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404.
In 2008 fees paid for reporting under Section 404 are not separately identifiable from the fees of the audit of the Banks annual accounts and the Banks associates.
Fees for the audit of Barclays Bank PLC Group accounts are not separately identifiable from Barclays PLC, therefore there is no difference in the amounts reported in both Annual Reports.
e Tax The charge for tax is based upon the UK corporation tax rate of 28.5% 2007: 30%, 2006: 30% and comprises: 2008 2007 2006 m m m Current tax charge credit Current year 1,559 2,385 1,929 Adjustment for prior years 97 11 8 1,656 2,374 1,937 Deferred tax credit charge Current year 597 367 16 Adjustment for prior years 273 26 20 870 393 4 Total charge 786 1,981 1,941 The effective tax rate for the years 2008, 2007 and 2006 is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28.5% 2007: 30%, 2006: 30%.
The differences are set out below: 2008 2007 2006 m m m Profit before tax 6,035 7,107 7,197 Tax charge at standard UK corporation tax rate of 28.5% 2007: 30%, 2006: 30% 1,720 2,132 2,159 Adjustment for prior years 176 37 24 Differing overseas tax rates 215 77 17 Non-taxable gains and income including amounts offset by unrecognised tax losses 833 136 393 Share-based payments 229 72 27 Deferred tax assets not previously recognised 514 158 4 Change in tax rates 1 24 4 Other non-allowable expenses 146 161 141 Overall tax charge 786 1,981 1,941 Effective tax rate 13% 28% 27% The effective rate of tax for 2008, based on profit before tax, was 13% 2007: 28%.
| 306 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 299-314. qxp:B File 17 6 3 09 01:33 Page 307 f Other income 2008 2007 2006 m m m Decrease increase in fair value of assets held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 10,422 5,592 7,417 Decrease increase in liabilities to customers under investment contracts 10,422 5,592 7,417 Property rentals 73 53 55 Other income 381 171 202 Other income 454 224 257 Included in other income are sub-lease rentals of 18m 2007: 18m, 2006: 18m, and in 2008 only is a 47m gain from the Visa IPO.
g Trading portfolio assets 2008 2007 m m Trading portfolio assets Treasury and other eligible bills 4,544 2,094 Debt securities 148,686 152,778 Equity securities 30,544 36,342 Traded loans 1,070 1,780 Commodities 802 732 Trading portfolio assets 185,646 193,726 h Available for sale financial investments 2008 2007 m m Debt securities 58,831 38,673 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 4,003 2,723 Equity securities 2,182 1,860 3 Available for sale financial investments 65,016 43,256 Movement in available for sale financial investments 2008 2007 m m At beginning of year 43,256 51,952 Exchange and other adjustments 14,275 1,499 Acquisitions and transfers 59,703 26,950 Disposals through sale and redemption 50,629 37,498 Losses gains from changes in fair value recognised in equity 1,190 391 Impairment 382 13 Amortisation of discounts premium 17 25 At end of year 65,016 43,256 i Other assets 2008 2007 m m Sundry debtors 4,814 4,045 Prepayments 882 551 Accrued income 483 400 Reinsurance assets 123 157 Other assets 6,302 5,153 Included in the above Group balances are 4,704m 2007: 4,541m expected to be recovered within no more than 12 months after the balance sheet date: and balances of 1,598m 2007: 612m expected to be recovered more than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 307 C14170 Barclays B 299-314. qxp:B File 17 6 3 09 01:33 Page 308 Barclays Bank PLC data Notes to the accounts j Other liabilities 2008 2007 m m Accruals and deferred income 6,495 6,075 Sundry creditors 6,049 4,356 Obligations under finance leases 96 83 Other liabilities 12,640 10,514 Included in the above are balances of 11,068m 2007: 9,058m expected to be settled within no more than 12 months after the balance sheet date: and balances of 1,572m 2007: 1,456m expected to be settled more than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Accruals and deferred income included nil 2007: 102m in relation to deferred income from investment contracts and nil 2007: 677m in relation to deferred income from insurance contracts for the Group.
k Called up share capital Ordinary Shares The authorised ordinary share capital of the Bank, as at 31st December 2008, was 3,000 million 2007: 3,000 million ordinary shares of 1 each.
During the year, the Bank issued 1 million ordinary shares, for cash consideration of 17m.
Preference Shares The authorised preference share capital of Barclays Bank PLC, as at 31st December 2008, was 1,000 Preference Shares 2007: 1,000 of 1: 400,000 Preference Shares of 100 each 2007: 400,000 : 400,000 Preference Shares of 100 each 2007: 400,000 : 400,000 Preference Shares of US$100 each 2007: 400,000 : 300 million Preference Shares of US$0.25 each 2007: 150 million.
The issued preference share capital of Barclays Bank PLC, as at 31st December 2008, comprised 1,000 2007: 1,000 Sterling Preference Shares of 1 each: 240,000 2007: 240,000 Euro Preference Shares of 100 each: 75,000 2007: 75,000 Sterling Preference Shares of 100 each: 100,000 2007: 100,000 US Dollar Preference Shares of US$100 each: 237 million 2007: 131 million US Dollar Preference Shares of US$0.25 each.
2008 2007 m m Called up share capital, allotted and fully paid At beginning of year 2,336 2,329 Issued for cash 2 7 At end of year 2,338 2,336 Called up preference share capital, allotted and fully paid At beginning of year 46 34 Issued for cash 14 12 At end of year 60 46 Called up share capital 2,398 2,382 Share premium 2008 2007 m m At beginning of year 10,751 9,452 Ordinary shares issued for cash 15 104 Preference shares issued for cash 1,294 1,195 At end of year 12,060 10,751 | 308 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 299-314. qxp:B File 17 6 3 09 01:33 Page 309 k Called up share capital continued Sterling 1 Preference Shares 1,000 Sterling cumulative callable preference shares of 1 each the 1 Preference Shares were issued on 31st December 2004 at nil premium.
The 1 Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive Sterling cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, semi-annually at a rate reset semi-annually equal to the Sterling interbank offered rate for six-month sterling deposits.
Barclays Bank PLC shall be obliged to pay such dividends if: 1 it has profits available for the purpose of distribution under the Companies Act 1985 as at each dividend payment date: and 2 it is solvent on the relevant dividend payment date, provided that a capital regulations condition is satisfied on such dividend payment date.
The dividends shall not be due and payable on the relevant dividend payment date except to the extent that Barclays Bank PLC could make such payment and still be solvent immediately thereafter.
Barclays Bank PLC shall be considered solvent on any date if: 1 it is able to pay its debts to senior creditors as they fall due: and 2 its auditors have reported within the previous six months that its assets exceed its liabilities.
If Barclays Bank PLC shall not pay, or shall pay only in part, a dividend for a period of seven days or more after the due date for payment, the holders of the 1 Preference Shares may institute proceedings for the winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC.
No remedy against Barclays Bank PLC shall be available to the holder of any 1 Preference Shares for the recovery of amounts owing in respect of 1 Preference Shares other than the institution of proceedings for the winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC and or proving in such winding-up.
On a winding-up or other return of capital other than a redemption or purchase by Barclays Bank PLC of any of its issued shares, or a reduction of share capital, permitted by the Articles of Barclays Bank PLC and under applicable law, the assets of Barclays Bank PLC available to shareholders shall be applied in priority to any payment to the holders of ordinary shares and any other class of shares in the capital of Barclays Bank PLC then in issue ranking junior to the 1 Preference Shares on such a return of capital and pari passu on such a return of capital with the holders of any other class of shares in the capital of Barclays Bank PLC then in issue other than any class of shares in the capital of Barclays Bank PLC then in issue ranking in priority to the 1 Preference Shares on a winding-up or other such return of capital, in payment to the holders of the 1 Preference Shares of a sum equal to the aggregate of: 1 an amount equal to the dividends accrued thereon for the then current dividend period and any accumulated arrears thereof to the date of the commencement of the winding-up or other such return of capital: and 2 an amount equal to 1 per 1 Preference Share.
After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distributions to which they are entitled, the holders of the 1 Preference Shares will have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of Barclays Bank PLC and will not be entitled to any further participation in such return of capital.
The 1 Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, subject to the Companies Act 1985 and its Articles.
Holders of the 1 Preference Shares are not entitled to receive notice of, or to attend, or vote at, any general meeting of Barclays Bank PLC.
Euro Preference Shares 100,000 Euro 4.875% non-cumulative callable preference shares of 100 each the 4.875% Preference Shares were issued on 8th December 2004 for a consideration of 993.6m 688.4m, of which the nominal value was 10m and the balance was share premium.
The 4.875% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive Euro non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, annually at a fixed rate of 4.875% per annum on the amount of 10,000 per preference share until 15th December 2014, and thereafter quarterly at a rate reset quarterly equal to 1.05% per annum above the Euro interbank offered rate for three-month Euro deposits.
The 4.875% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, on 15th December 2014, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at 10,000 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
140,000 Euro 4.75% non-cumulative callable preference shares of 100 each the 4.75% Preference Shares were issued on 15th March 2005 for a consideration of 1,383.3m 966.7m, of which the nominal value was 14m and the balance was share premium.
The 4.75% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive Euro non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, annually at a fixed rate of 4.75% per 3 annum on the amount of 10,000 per preference share until 15th March 2020, and thereafter quarterly at a rate reset quarterly equal to 0.71% per annum above the Euro interbank offered rate for three-month Euro deposits.
The 4.75% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, on 15th March 2020, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at 10,000 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
Sterling Preference Shares 75,000 Sterling 6.0% non-cumulative callable preference shares of 100 each the 6.0% Preference Shares were issued on 22nd June 2005 for a consideration of 732.6m, of which the nominal value was 7.5m and the balance was share premium.
The 6.0% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive Sterling non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, annually at a fixed rate of 6.0% per annum on the amount of 10,000 per preference share until 15th December 2017, and thereafter quarterly at a rate reset quarterly equal to 1.42% per annum above the London interbank offered rate for three-month Sterling deposits.
The 6.0% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, on 15th December 2017, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at 10,000 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
US Dollar Preference Shares 100,000 US Dollar 6.278% non-cumulative callable preference shares of US$100 each the 6.278% Preference Shares, represented by 100,000 American Depositary Shares, Series 1, were issued on 8th June 2005 for a consideration of US$995.4m 548.1m, of which the nominal value was US$10m and the balance was share premium.
The 6.278% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive US Dollar non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, semi-annually at a fixed rate of 6.278% per annum on the amount of US$10,000 per preference share until 15th December 2034, and thereafter quarterly at a rate reset quarterly equal to 1.55% per annum above the London interbank offered rate for three-month US Dollar deposits.
The 6.278% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, on 15th December 2034, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at US$10,000 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
30 million US Dollar 6.625% non-cumulative callable preference shares of US$0.25 each the 6.625% Preference Shares, represented by 30 million American Depositary Shares, Series 2, were issued on 25th and 28th April 2006 for a consideration of US$727m 406m, of which the nominal value was US$7.5m and the balance was share premium.
The 6.625% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive US Dollar non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, quarterly at a fixed rate of 6.625% per annum on the amount of US$25 per preference share.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 309 C14170 Barclays B 299-314. qxp:B File 17 6 3 09 01:33 Page 310 Barclays Bank PLC data Notes to the accounts k Called up share capital continued The 6.625% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, on 15th September 2011, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at US$25 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
55 million US Dollar 7.1% non-cumulative callable preference shares of US$0.25 each the 7.1% Preference Shares, represented by 55 million American Depositary Shares, Series 3, were issued on 13th September 2007 for a consideration of US$1,335m 657m, of which the nominal value was US$13.75m and the balance was share premium.
The 7.1% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive US Dollar non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, quarterly at a fixed rate of 7.1% per annum on the amount of US$25 per preference share.
The 7.1% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole or in part, on 15th December 2012, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at US$25 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
46 million US Dollar 7.75% non-cumulative callable preference shares of US$0.25 each the 7.75% Preference Shares, represented by 46 million American Depositary Shares, Series 4, were issued on 7th December 2007 for a consideration of US$1,116m 550m, of which the nominal value was US$11.5m and the balance was share premium.
The 7.75% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive US Dollar non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, quarterly at a fixed rate of 7.75% per annum on the amount of US$25 per preference share.
The 7.75% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole or in part, on 15th December 2013, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at US$25 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
106 million US Dollar 8.125% non-cumulative callable preference shares of US$0.25 each the 8.125% Preference Shares, represented by 106 million American Depositary Shares, Series 5, were issued on 11th April 2008 and 25th April 2008 for a total consideration of US$2,650m 1,345m, of which the nominal value was US$26.5m and the balance was share premium.
The 8.125% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive US Dollar non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, quarterly at a fixed rate of 8.125% per annum on the amount of US$25 per preference share.
The 8.125% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole or in part, on 15th June 2013, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at US$25 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
No redemption or purchase of any 4.875% Preference Shares, the 4.75% Preference Shares, the 6.0% Preference Shares, the 6.278% Preference Shares, the 6.625% Preference Shares, the 7.1% Preference Shares, the 7.75% Preference Shares and the 8.125% Preference Shares together, the Preference Shares may be made by Barclays Bank PLC without the prior notification to the UK FSA and any such redemption will be subject to the Companies Act 1985 and the Articles of Barclays Bank PLC.
On a winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC or other return of capital other than a redemption or purchase of shares of Barclays Bank PLC, or a reduction of share capital, a holder of Preference Shares will rank in the application of assets of Barclays Bank PLC available to shareholders: 1 junior to the holder of any shares of Barclays Bank PLC in issue ranking in priority to the Preference Shares: 2 equally in all respects with holders of other preference shares and any other shares of Barclays Bank PLC in issue ranking pari passu with the Preference Shares: and 3 in priority to the holders of ordinary shares and any other shares of Barclays Bank PLC in issue ranking junior to the Preference Shares.
The holders of the 400m 6% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes and the US$1,000m 6.86% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes of Barclays Bank PLC together, the TONs and the holders of the US$1,250m 8.55% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the US$750m 7.375% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the 850m 7.50% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the 500m 5.3304% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the US$1,350m 5.926% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the 500m 6.3688% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the US$1,250m 7.434% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments and the 3,000m 14% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments of Barclays Bank PLC together, the RCIs would, for the purposes only of calculating the amounts payable in respect of such securities on a winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC, subject to limited exceptions and to the extent that the TONs and the RCIs are then in issue, rank pari passu with the holders of the most senior class or classes of preference shares then in issue in the capital of Barclays Bank PLC.
Accordingly, the holders of the preference shares would rank equally with the holders of such TONs and RCIs on such a winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC unless one or more classes of shares of Barclays Bank PLC ranking in priority to the preference shares are in issue at the time of such winding-up, in which event the holders of such TONs and RCIs would rank equally with the holders of such shares and in priority to the holders of the preference shares.
Subject to such ranking, in such event, holders of the preference shares will be entitled to receive out of assets of Barclays Bank PLC available for distributions to shareholders, liquidating distributions in the amount of 10,000 per 4.875% Preference Share, 10,000 per 4.75% Preference Share, 10,000 per 6.0% Preference Share, US$10,000 per 6.278% Preference Share, US$25 per 6.625% Preference Share, US$25 per 7.1% Preference Share, US$25 per 7.75% Preference Share and US$0.25 per 8.125% Preference Share, plus, in each case, an amount equal to the accrued dividend for the then current dividend period to the date of the commencement of the winding-up or other such return of capital.
If a dividend is not paid in full on any preference shares on any dividend payment date, then a dividend restriction shall apply.
Holders of the preference shares are not entitled to receive notice of, or to attend, or vote at, any general meeting of Barclays Bank PLC.
Barclays Bank PLC is not permitted to create a class of shares ranking as regards participation in the profits or assets of Barclays Bank PLC in priority to the preference shares, save with the sanction of a special resolution of a separate general meeting of the holders of the preference shares requiring a majority of not less than three-fourths of the holders of the preference shares voting at the separate general meeting or with the consent in writing of the holders of three-fourths of the preference shares.
Except as described above, the holders of the preference shares have no right to participate in the surplus assets of Barclays Bank PLC.
| 310 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 299-314. qxp:B File 17 6 3 09 01:33 Page 311 l Reserves Other reserves Available Cash flow for sale hedging Translation reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m At 1st January 2008 111 26 307 170 Net losses gains from changes in fair value 1,752 252 1,500 Net gains losses transferred to net profit 212 19 193 Currency translation differences 2,307 2,307 Losses transferred to net profit due to impairment 382 382 Changes in insurance liabilities 17 17 Net gains transferred to net profit due to fair value hedging 2 2 Tax 207 165 840 882 At 31st December 2008 1,249 132 2,840 1,723 Retained earnings Retained earnings m At 1st January 2008 14,222 Profit attributable to equity holders 4,846 Equity-settled share schemes 463 Tax on equity-settled shares schemes 4 Other taxes 52 Vesting of Barclays PLC shares under share-based payment schemes 437 Dividends paid 1,160 Dividends on preference shares and other shareholders equity 502 Capital injection from Barclays PLC 5,137 Other movements 56 At 31st December 2008 22,457 At 1st January 2007 11,556 Profit attributable to equity holders 4,749 Equity-settled share schemes 567 Tax on equity-settled shares schemes 28 3 Vesting of Barclays PLC shares under share-based payment schemes 524 Dividends paid 3,287 Dividends on preference shares and other shareholders equity 345 Capital injection from Barclays PLC 1,434 Other movements 44 At 31st December 2007 14,222 Transfers from the cash flow hedging reserve to the income statement were: interest income 4m loss 2007: 93m loss, interest expense 74m loss 2007: 11m gain, net trading income 119m gain 2007: 100m loss and administration and general expenses of 60m loss 2007: 16m loss.
m Other shareholders equity 2008 2007 m m At 1st January 2,687 2,534 Appropriations 23 8 Other movements 146 145 At 31st December 2,564 2,687 Included in other shareholders equity are: Issuances of reserve capital instruments which bear a fixed rate of interest ranging between 7.375%-8.55% until 2010 or 2011.
After these dates, in the event that the reserve capital instruments are not redeemed, they will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London or European interbank rates.
These instruments are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after June or December 2010 or 2011.
The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the reserve capital instruments for any period of time.
Issuance of capital notes which bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
These notes are repayable in each case, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any interest payment date.
The Bank is not obliged to make a payment of interest on its capital notes if, in the preceding six months, a dividend has not been declared or paid on any class of shares of Barclays PLC.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 311 C14170 Barclays B 299-314. qxp:B File 17 6 3 09 01:33 Page 312 Barclays Bank PLC data Notes to the accounts n Minority interests 2008 2007 m m At beginning of year 1,949 1,685 Share of profit after tax 403 377 Dividend and other payments 134 131 Equity issued by subsidiaries 4 137 Available for sale reserve: net loss gain from changes in fair value 1 1 Cash flow hedges: net gain loss from changes in fair value 76 16 Currency translation differences 59 16 Additions 27 Disposals 11 111 Other 27 36 At end of year 2,372 1,949 o Dividends 2008 2007 m m On ordinary shares Final dividend 1,030 791 Interim dividends 130 2,496 Dividends 1,160 3,287 These dividends are paid to enable Barclays PLC to fund its dividends to its shareholders and in 2007, to fund the repurchase by Barclays PLC of ordinary share capital.
Dividends paid on preference shares amounted to 390m 2007: 193m.
Dividends paid on other equity instruments as detailed in Notem amounted to 112m 2007: 152m.
p Financial risks The only significant financial instruments that are held by Barclays Bank PLC and not Barclays PLC are investments in Barclays PLC ordinary shares, dealt with as trading portfolio equity assets, debt securities and available for sale financial investments as appropriate.
There consequently are no significant differences in exposures to market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and the fair value of financial instruments between Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC, and no differences in the manner in which these financial risks are managed.
Therefore the disclosures regarding financial risks appearing in Notes 46 to 49 are in all material respects the same for Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays PLC.
q Capital The Barclays Bank PLC Groups policies and objectives for managing capital are the same as those for the Barclays PLC Group, disclosed in Note 52.
The table below provides details of the Barclays Bank PLC Group at 31st December 2008 and 2007.
2008 2007 Basel II Basel I m m Total qualifying Tier 1 capital 37,101 26,534 Total qualifying Tier 2 capital 22,356 17,123 Total deductions 964 1,889 Total net capital resources 58,493 41,768 r Segmental reporting Segmental reporting by Barclays Bank PLC is the same as that presented in Note 53 to the Barclays PLC financial statements, except for: the difference in profit before tax of 42m 2007: 31m between Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC is included in Head office functions and other operations.
the difference in total assets of 49m 2007: 222m is represented by holdings of Barclays PLC shares held by the businesses.
| 312 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Financial statements C14170 Barclays B 299-314. qxp:B File 17 6 3 09 01:33 Page 313 Barclays Bank PLC data Financial Data Selected financial statistics IFRS a 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 % % %%% Attributable profit as a percentage of: average total assets 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.5 average shareholders equity 13.8 16.3 20.2 17.4 21.3 Average shareholders equity as a percentage of average total assets 2.0 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.4 Selected income statement data m m m m m Interest income 28,010 25,308 21,805 17,232 13,880 Interest expense 16,595 15,707 12,662 9,157 7,047 Non-interest income 11,891 13,922 13,088 9,934 8,543 Operating expenses 14,362 13,199 12,674 10,527 8,536 Impairment charges 5,419 2,795 2,154 1,571 1,093 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 14 42 46 45 56 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 327 28 323 45 Gains on acquisitions 2,406 Profit before tax 6,035 7,107 7,197 5,311 4,589 Attributable profit 4,846 4,749 4,914 3,695 3,263 Selected balance sheet data m m m m m Total shareholders equity 43,574 31,821 27,106 24,243 16,849 Subordinated liabilities 29,842 18,150 13,786 12,463 12,277 Deposits from banks, customer accounts and debt securities in issue 603,869 506,623 447,453 417,139 412,358 Loans and advances to banks and customers 509,522 385,518 313,226 300,001 343,041 Total assets 2,053,029 1,227,583 996,503 924,170 538,300 3 Note a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 313 C14170 Barclays B 299-314. qxp:B File 17 6 3 09 01:33 Page 314 Barclays Bank PLC data Financial Data Ratio of earnings to fixed charges Barclays Bank PLC a 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 in m except for ratios Ratio of earnings to fixed charges IFRS UK GAAP: Fixed charges Interest expense 38,235 37,903 30,385 20,965 14,464 Rental expense 240 161 137 126 93 Total fixed charges 38,475 38,064 30,522 21,091 14,557 Earnings Income before taxes and minority interests 6,035 7,107 7,197 5,311 4,589 Less: Unremitted pre-tax income of associated companies and joint ventures 19 45 41 28 51 6,016 7,062 7,156 5,283 4,538 Fixed charges 38,475 38,064 30,522 21,091 14,557 Total earnings including fixed charges 44,491 45,126 37,678 26,374 19,095 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges 1.16 1.19 1.23 1.25 1.31 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preference shares Barclays Bank PLC a 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 in m except for ratios Combined fixed charges, preference share dividends and similar appropriations IFRS UK GAAP: Interest expense 38,235 37,903 30,385 20,965 14,464 Rental expense 240 161 137 126 93 Fixed charges 38,475 38,064 30,522 21,091 14,557 Preference share dividends and similar appropriations 583 345 395 304 3 Total fixed charges 39,058 38,409 30,917 21,395 14,560 Earnings Income before taxes and minority interests 6,035 7,107 7,197 5,311 4,589 Less: Unremitted pre-tax income of associated companies and joint ventures 19 45 41 28 51 6,016 7,062 7,156 5,283 4,538 Fixed charges 39,058 38,409 30,917 21,091 14,557 Total earnings including fixed charges 45,074 45,471 38,073 26,374 19,095 Ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges, preference share dividends and similar appropriations 1.15 1.18 1.23 1.23 1.31 Note a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005.
| 314 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
