Baring Emerging Europe PLC NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 155 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3XY onTuesday, 13 January 2009, at 2:30pm to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, which will be proposed as to resolutions 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 as ordinary resolutions, and as to resolutions 9 and 10 as special resolutions: 1.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2008.
To receive the Directors Report and statement of accounts for the year ended 30 September 2008.
To approve the annual dividend.
To re-elect John Cousins as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Steven Bates as a Director of the Company.
To elect Jonathan Woollett as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Board to determine their remuneration.
SPECIAL BUSINESS To consider the following resolutions: 8.
Authority to allot new ordinary shares Ordinary Resolution: That, the Board be and it is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 192,218 being approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of this document excluding shares held in treasury at that date PROVIDED THAT this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry make one or more offers or agreements which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of ordinary shares Special Resolution: That, subject to the passing of Resolution 8 set out in the notice convening the Annual General Meeting of the Company dated 3 December 2008, the Board be and is hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the said Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 8 and or where such allotment constitutes an allotment of equity securities by virtue of Section 94 3A of the said Act, as if sub-section 1 of Section 89 of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment, PROVIDED THAT this power shall be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities in the Company whether by way of rights issue, open offer or any other pre-emptive offer to holders of the ordinary shares excluding any shareholder holding shares as treasury shares where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interest of such holders of ordinary shares on a fixed record date are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Board may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or Section 94 3A provides that an allotment of equity securities also includes the sale of any relevant shares held by the Company as treasury shares.
49 Baring Emerging Europe PLC NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING practical problems arising in any overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or any other matter whatsoever: b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 524,038 being the aggregate of i 5% of the issued share capital as at the date of this document less the aggregate nominal value of shares held in treasury as at the date this document and ii the aggregate nominal value of shares held in treasury as at the date of this document at a price not less than net asset value per share at the close of business on the business day which is two business days immediately preceding the day on which the earlier of the agreement to allot such share is made or such share is allotted: and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special Resolution: That, the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Act of ordinary shares of 0.10 each in the capital of the Company the shares provided that: a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 5,762,685 being approximately 14.99% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of this document, excluding shares held in treasury : b the minimum price exclusive of any expenses which may be paid for a share is 0.10: c the maximum price exclusive of any expenses which may be paid for a share is an amount equal to the highest of a 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for a share taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 5 business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased: or b the price of the last independent trade: or c the highest current independent bid: d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2010, or 12 July 2010, unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: e the Company may make a contract to purchase shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will be or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract: and f all shares purchased pursuant to the said authority shall be either: i cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase: or ii held, sold, transferred or otherwise dealt with as treasury shares in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
By order of the Board M. J. Nokes 155 Bishopsgate Secretary London EC2M 3XY 3 December 2008 50 Baring Emerging Europe PLC NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 1.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company gives notice that only those shareholders entered on the register of members of the Company at the close of business on 9 January 2009 will be entitled to attend and vote at the aforesaid meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the entries on the register after that time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use by shareholders.
To be effective, the form of proxy for use at the meeting and the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, must be deposited at the office of the Companys registrars, Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
Completion and return of a form of proxy will not prevent shareholders from attending the meeting and voting in person if they so wish.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in the share capital of the Company, giving details of all transactions of each Director and his family interests in the shares of the Company, will be available for inspection at 155 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3XY during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
As at 2 December 2008 being the last business day prior to publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 38,443,527 ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company as at 2 December 2008 are 38,443,527.
To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an instruction to a previously appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message must be received by the issuers agent RA10 by 2:30pm on 11 January 2009.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
After this time any change of instructions to a proxy appointed through CREST should be communicated to the proxy by other means.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST Members who have appointed voting service provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and system timings please refer to the CREST Manual.
We may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
In any case your proxy form must be received by the Companys registrars no later than 2:30pm on 11 January 2009.
