Glossary Admitted carrier Deferred acquisition costs DAC An insurance company licensed by a particular US state, monitored by Costs incurred for the acquisition or the renewal of insurance policies the state for financial stability, covered by the states guaranty fund, and e. g. brokerage, premium levy and staff related costs which are subject to the states regulations for licensed insurance companies.
capitalised and amortised over the term of the contracts.
Aggregates aggregations Earnings per share EPS Basic Diluted Accumulations of insurance loss exposures which result from Ratio, in pence, calculated by dividing the consolidated profit after underwriting multiple risks that are exposed to common causes of loss.
tax by the weighted average number of ordinary shares issued, excluding shares owned by the group.
For calculating diluted earnings Aggregate excess of loss per share the number of shares and profit or loss for the year is The reinsurer indemnifies an insurance company the reinsured for adjusted for all dilutive potential ordinary shares like share options an aggregate or cumulative amount of losses in excess of a specified granted to employees.
Excess per risk reinsurance A. M. Best A form of excess of loss reinsurance which, subject to a specified A. M. Best is a worldwide insurance-rating and information agency limit, indemnifies the reinsured company against the amount of loss whose ratings are recognised as an ideal benchmark for assessing in excess of a specified retention with respect of each risk involved in the financial strength of insurance related organisations, following a each loss.
rigorous quantitative and qualitative analysis of a companys balance sheet strength, operating performance and business prole.
Beazley Expense ratio Group plc obtained an A rating, while Beazley Insurance Company, Ratio, in percent, of the sum of expenses for acquisition of insurance Inc. received a rating of A. contracts and administrative expenses to net earned premiums.
Binding authority Facultative reinsurance A contracted agreement between a managing agent and a coverholder A reinsurance risk that is placed by means of a separately negotiated under which the coverholder is authorised to enter into contracts of contract as opposed to one that is ceded under a reinsurance treaty.
insurance for the account of the members of the syndicate concerned, subject to specified terms and conditions.
Gross premiums written Amounts payable by the insured, excluding any taxes or duties levied Capacity on the premium, including any brokerage and commission deducted This is the maximum amount of premiums that can be accepted by a by intermediaries.
Capacity also refers to the amount of insurance coverage allocated to a particular policyholder or in the marketplace in general.
Hard market An insurance market where prevalent prices are high, with restrictive Catastrophe reinsurance terms and conditions offered by insurers.
A form of excess of loss reinsurance which, subject to a specified limit, indemnifies the reinsured company for the amount of loss in excess Horizontal limits of a specified retention with respect to an accumulation of losses Reinsurance coverage limits for multiple events.
resulting from a catastrophic event or series of events.
Incurred but not reported IBNR Claims These are anticipated or likely claims that may result from an insured Demand by an insured for indemnity under an insurance contract.
event although no claims have been reported so far.
Claims ratio International accounting standards IAS International financial Ratio, in percent, of net insurance claims to net earned premiums.
reporting standards IFRS Standards formulated by the IASB with the intention of achieving Combined ratio internationally comparable financial statements.
Since 2002, the Ratio, in percent, of the sum of net insurance claims, expenses for standards adopted by the IASB have been referred to as International acquisition of insurance contracts and administrative expenses to net Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Until existing standards are earned premiums.
This is also the sum of the expense ratio and the renamed, they continue to be referred to as International Accounting claims ratio.
Coverholder managing general agent International accounting standards board IASB A rm either in the United Kingdom or overseas authorised by a An international panel of accounting experts responsible for managing agent under the terms of a binding authority to enter into developing IAS IFRS.
contracts of insurance in the name of the members of the syndicate concerned, subject to certain written terms and conditions.
A Lloyds broker can act as a coverholder.
The calculation is performed excluding the impact of foreign exchange on non-monetary items.
com Lead underwriter Retrocessional reinsurance The underwriter of a syndicate who is responsible for setting the terms The reinsurance of the reinsurance account.
of an insurance or reinsurance contract that is subscribed by more than one syndicate and who generally has primary responsibility for Risk handling any claims arising under such a contract.
This term may variously refer to: B UIF QPTTJCJMJUZ PG TPNF FWFOU PDDVSSJOH XIJDI DBVTFT JOKVSZ PS MPTT Line C UIF TVCKFDU NBUUFS PG BO JOTVSBODF PS SFJOTVSBODF DPOUSBDU PS The proportion of an insurance or reinsurance risk that is accepted by c an insured peril.
an underwriter or which an underwriter is willing to accept.
Short tail Managed syndicate A type of insurance where claims are usually made during the term of The combination of syndicate 2623, 3623, 3622 and 623 through the policy or shortly after the policy has expired.
Property insurance is which the group underwrites insurance business.
an example of short tail business.
Managing agent Soft market A company that is permitted by Lloyds to manage the underwriting of An insurance market where prevalent prices are low, and terms and a syndicate.
conditions offered by insurers are less restrictive.
Managing general agent MGA Stamp capacity An insurance intermediary acting as an agent on behalf of an insurer.
The volume of business measured in gross written premiums net of acquisition costs underwritten by the group through its managed Medium tail syndicates at Lloyds of London.
A type of insurance where the claims may be made a few years after the period of insurance has expired.
Surplus lines insurer An insurer that underwrites surplus lines insurance in the US.
Lloyds Net assets per share underwriters are surplus lines insurers in all jurisdictions of the US Ratio, in pence calculated by dividing the net assets total equity by except Kentucky and the US Virgin Islands.
the number of shares issued.
Total shareholder return Net premiums written The increase in the share price plus the value of any dividends paid Net premiums written is equal to gross premiums written less outward and proposed during the year.
Treaty reinsurance Provision for outstanding claims A reinsurance contract under which the reinsurer agrees to offer and Provision for claims that have already been incurred at the balance to accept all risks of certain size within a dened class.
sheet date but have either not yet been reported or not yet been fully settled.
Unearned premiums reserve The portion of premium income in the business year that is Rate attributable to periods after the balance sheet date is accounted The premium expressed as a percentage of the sum insured or limit for as unearned premiums in the underwriting provisions.
Reinsurance to close RITC A reinsurance which closes a year of account by transferring the responsibility for discharging all the liabilities that attach to that year of account and any year of account closed into that year plus the right to buy any income due to the closing year of account into an open year of account in return for a premium.
Retention limits Limits imposed upon underwriters for retention of exposures by the group after the application of reinsurance programmes.
Return on equity ROE Ratio, in percent calculated by dividing the consolidated profit after tax by the average total equity.
Designed and produced by Publishing at The Team, a Loewy Group company.
co. uk Beazley Annual Report 2008 111 Building our prole Advertising provides an opportunity to convey our value proposition to brokers and clients clearly and memorably.
The advertisements shown here ran in Business Insurance, Engineering News-Record, and Lloyds List.
Most insurers are a little like politicians: strong on promises, and slow to deliver.
In fact, in recent research the majority of risk managers reported wait times of 90 to 120 days for commercial property policies.
Beazleys at structure and depth of underwriting experience means we issue 94% of our policies within 24 hours of binding, increasing contract certainty and reducing E&O exposures.
We are especially aggressive on retail, real estate, hospitality and nursing home risks.
To learn more, please contact Mark Bernacki, Head of U. S. Property, at 630-353-8255.
Straight Answers We continue to increase our prole in 112 www.
com About Beazley: Based in London since 1986 and oated on the London Stock Exchange in 2002, Beazley BEZ.
L is the parent company of a global specialist risk insurance and reinsurance business operating through Lloyds and Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. a US admitted carrier in all 50 states.
Beazley also has oces in Hong Kong, Singapore, Paris, Munich and Brisbane.
Beazley is a market leader in many of its chosen lines of business, The Cincinnati which include professional indemnity, marine, reinsurance, Whirling Skystaurant, 2025 commercial property, political and contingency risk and accident and life insurance.
Further information about us is available at www.
com No matter what the future of engineering and architecture holds, professional liability insurance from Beazley will help make it happen.
Our broad coverage continues to evolve with the changing exposures of design firms, as it has done for more than 22 years.
Perhaps thats why today we insure 30 of the ENR top 50 firms - offering coverage limits of up to $30 million - as well as thousands of smaller design firms.
Learn more about the stability Beazley offers at beazley.
Ask your broker about Beazley.
Straight Answers Contents 1 Financial highlights 26 Financial review 66 Statement of directors responsibilities 3 Key performance indicators i Group performance 67 Audit opinion 4 Beazley timeline ii Balance sheet management 68 Consolidated income statement 6 Chairmans statement iii Capital position 69 Balance sheet 10 Business review 42 Investor relations 70 Statement of changes in equity 14 Performance by division 43 Risk management 71 Cash ow statement i Marine 46 Corporate and social responsibility 72 Notes to the financial statements ii Political risk and contingency 48 Board of directors 110 Glossary iii Property 50 Statement of corporate governance the US market as we strive to become, and be recognised iv Reinsurance 54 Directors remuneration report v Specialty lines 64 Directors report About Beazley: Based in London since 1986 and oated on the London Stock Exchange in 2002, Beazley BEZ.
Beazley is a market leader in many of its chosen lines of business, which include professional indemnity, marine, reinsurance, commercial property, political and contingency risk and accident and life insurance.
com Weve never been one for trading exotic financial instruments.
Or underwriting risks we dont understand.
Thats why for more than two decades in business weve never posted a loss.
And why today, we stand ready to support you with well crafted products at a fair price.
To learn more, visit beazley.
com businesslines or call King Flynn at 904 567 1221.
Straight Answers Contents 1 Financial highlights 26 Financial review 66 Statement of directors responsibilities 3 Key performance indicators i Group performance 67 Audit opinion 4 Beazley timeline ii Balance sheet management 68 Consolidated income statement 6 Chairmans statement iii Capital position 69 Balance sheet 10 Business review 42 Investor relations 70 Statement of changes in equity 14 Performance by division 43 Risk management 71 Cash ow statement i Marine 46 Corporate and social responsibility 72 Notes to the financial statements ii Political risk and contingency 48 Board of directors 110 Glossary iii Property 50 Statement of corporate governance as, the highest performing specialist insurer.
iv Reinsurance 54 Directors remuneration report v Specialty lines 64 Directors report In this environment, you cant be too safe.
As one of the biggest participants in the Lloyds market, Beazley offers security thats second to none.
Our Marine & Energy Group insures a tenth of the worlds ocean-going tonnage and, over the past decade, has paid out more than $190 million in hull claims.
Learn more about our comprehensive and competitive risk solutions at beazley.
a dicult and changing economic market place.
Beazley Group plc Plantation Place South 60 Great Tower Street London EC3R 5AD Phone 44 0 20 7667 0623 Fax 44 0 20 7674 7100 www.
