Notes to the financial statements 1 Statement of accounting policies Beazley Group plc is a group domiciled in England and Wales.
The consolidated financial statements of the group for the year ended 31 December 2008 comprise the parent company and its subsidiaries and the groups interest in associates.
Both the financial statements of the parent company, Beazley Group plc, and the consolidated financial statements of the group have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
On publishing the parent company financial statements here together with the group financial statements, the parent company is taking advantage of the exemption in s230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these approved financial statements.
The following accounting policies apply to both the group and parent company unless otherwise indicated.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of adopted IFRSs in issue that are effective or available for early adoption at 31 December 2008.
Based on these adopted IFRSs and interpretations, the directors have applied the accounting policies, as set out below.
The following new standard and interpretations released by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB have not been early adopted but are expected to be of relevance to future financial years.
"None of these are expected to have any significant impact on the future consolidated financial statements of the group: IAS 1 amended Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 23 amended Borrowing costs IAS 27 amended Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements IAS 32 amended Financial Instruments: Presentation IAS 39 amended Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Dened benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation Revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2008 incorporates the following changes that are likely to be relevant to the groups operations: t 5IF EFmOJUJPO PG B CVTJOFTT IBT CFFO CSPBEFOFE XIJDI NBZ SFTVMU JO NPSF BDRVJTJUJPOT CFJOH USFBUFE BT CVTJOFTT DPNCJOBUJPOT t $POUJOHFOU DPOTJEFSBUJPO XJMM CF NFBTVSFE BU GBJS WBMVF XJUI TVCTFRVFOU DIBOHFT JO GBJS WBMVF SFDPHOJTFE JO QSPmU PS MPTT t 5SBOTBDUJPO DPTUT PUIFS UIBO TIBSF BOE EFCU JTTVF DPTUT XJMM CF FYQFOTFE BT JODVSSFE t ""OZ QSF FYJTUJOH JOUFSFTU JO BO BDRVJSFF XJMM CF NFBTVSFE BU GBJS WBMVF XJUI UIF SFMBUFE HBJO PS MPTT SFDPHOJTFE JO QSPmU PS MPTT t ""OZ OPO DPOUSPMMJOH NJOPSJUZ JOUFSFTU XJMM CF NFBTVSFE BU FJUIFS GBJS WBMVF PS BU JUT QSPQPSUJPOBUF JOUFSFTU JO UIF JEFOUJmBCMF BTTFUT and liabilities of an acquiree, on a  basis."
Revised IFRS 3, which becomes mandatory for the groups 2010 consolidated financial statements, will be applied prospectively and therefore there will be no impact on prior periods in the groups 2010 consolidated financial statements.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
The policies have been consistently applied to all periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of presentation The consolidated financial statements are prepared using the historical cost convention except that investments and derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
All amounts presented are stated in sterling and millions, unless noted otherwise.
Use of estimates and judgments The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
In particular, information about significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgments in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are described in notes 2 and 23 on risk management, insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets.
Consolidation a Subsidiary undertakings Subsidiary undertakings, which are those entities in which the group, directly or indirectly, has the power to exercise control over financial and operating policies so as to obtain benets from their activities, have been consolidated.
They are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control ceases.
com 1 Statement of accounting policies continued The group has used the purchase method of accounting for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
Under purchase accounting, the cost of acquisition is measured as the fair value of assets given, shares issued or liabilities undertaken at the date of acquisition plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of an acquisition over the net fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Financial investments made by the parent company in group undertakings are stated at cost and are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
Certain group subsidiaries underwrite as corporate members of Lloyds on syndicates managed by Beazley Furlonge Limited.
In view of the several liability of underwriting members at Lloyds for the transactions of syndicates in which they participate, only attributable shares of transactions, assets and liabilities of those syndicates have been included in the financial statements.
b Associates Associates are those entities in which the group has power to exert significant inuence but which it does not control.
significant inuence is generally presumed if the group has between 20% and 50% of voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under this method, the groups share of post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements in the associates net assets are adjusted against the cost of the investment.
When the groups share of losses equals or exceeds the carrying amount of the associate, the carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition for the losses is discontinued except to the extent that the group has incurred obligations in respect of the associate.
Equity accounting is discontinued when the group no longer has significant inuence over the investment.
c Intercompany balances and transactions All intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains or losses on transactions between group companies have been eliminated.
Transactions and balances between the group and associates are not eliminated.
Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of the parent and the subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the relevant entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the groups presentation currency.
b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using average exchange rates applicable to this period and which the group considers to be a reasonable approximation of the transaction rate.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from translation at the period end of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary items recorded at historical cost in foreign currencies are translated using the exchange rate on the date of the initial transaction.
c Group companies The results and financial position of the group companies that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: t BTTFUT BOE MJBCJMJUJFT BSF USBOTMBUFE BU UIF DMPTJOH SBUF SVMJOH BU UIF CBMBODF TIFFU EBUF t JODPNF BOE FYQFOTFT GPS FBDI JODPNF TUBUFNFOU BSF USBOTMBUFE BU BWFSBHF FYDIBOHF SBUFT GPS UIF SFQPSUJOH QFSJPE BOE t BMM SFTVMUJOH FYDIBOHF EJGGFSFODFT BSF SFDPHOJTFE BT B TFQBSBUF DPNQPOFOU PG FRVJUZ The exchange differences on disposal of foreign entities are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Insurance contracts Insurance contracts including inwards reinsurance contracts are dened as those containing significant insurance risk.
Insurance risk is considered significant if, and only if, an insured event could cause an insurer to pay significant additional benets in any scenario, excluding scenarios that lack commercial substance.
Such contracts remain insurance contracts until all rights and obligations are extinguished or expire.
Financial guarantees provided by the parent company to subsidiaries are treated as insurance contracts under IFRS 4.
Net earned premiums a Premiums Gross premiums written represent premiums on business commencing in the financial year together with adjustments to premiums written in previous accounting periods and estimates for premiums from contracts entered into during the course of the year.
Gross premiums written are stated before deduction of brokerage, taxes, duties levied on premiums and other deductions.
b Unearned premiums A provision for unearned premiums gross of reinsurance represents that part of the gross premiums written that is estimated will be earned in the following financial periods.
It is calculated using the daily pro-rata method where the premium is apportioned over the period of risk.
Beazley Annual Report 2008 73 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Statement of accounting policies continued Deferred acquisition costs DAC Acquisition costs comprise brokerage, premium levy and staff-related costs of the underwriters acquiring new business and renewing existing contracts.
The proportion of acquisition costs in respect of unearned premiums is deferred at the balance sheet date and recognised in later periods when the related premiums are earned.
Claims These include the cost of claims and claims handling expenses paid during the period, together with the movements in provisions for outstanding claims, claims incurred but not reported IBNR and claims handling provisions.
The provision for claims comprises amounts set aside for claims advised and IBNR.
The IBNR amount is based on estimates calculated using widely accepted actuarial techniques which are reviewed quarterly by the group actuary and annually by Beazleys independent syndicate reporting actuary.
The techniques generally use projections, based on past experience of the development of claims over time, to form a view on the likely ultimate claims to be experienced.
For more recent underwriting years, regard is given to the variations in the business portfolio accepted and the underlying terms and conditions.
Thus, the critical assumptions used when estimating provisions are that past experience is a reasonable predictor of likely future claims development and that the rating and business portfolio assumptions are a fair reection of the likely level of ultimate claims to be incurred for the more recent years.
Liability adequacy testing At each balance sheet date, liability adequacy tests are performed to ensure the adequacy of the claims liabilities net of DAC and unearned premium reserves.
In performing these tests, current best estimates of future contractual cash ows, claims handling and administration expenses as well as investment income from the assets backing such liabilities are used.
Any deficiency is immediately charged to the income statement initially by writing off DAC and by subsequently establishing a provision for losses arising from liability adequacy tests unexpired risk provision.
Ceded reinsurance These are contracts entered into by the group with reinsurers under which the group is compensated for losses on contracts issued by the group and that meet the denition of an insurance contract.
Insurance contracts entered into by the group under which the contract holder is another insurer inwards reinsurance are included with insurance contracts.
Any benets to which the group is entitled under its reinsurance contracts held are recognised as reinsurance assets.
These assets consist of balances due from reinsurers and include reinsurers share of provisions for claims.
These balances are based on calculated amounts of outstanding claims and projections for IBNR, net of estimated irrecoverable amounts having regard to the reinsurance programme in place for the class of business, the claims experience for the period and the current security rating of the reinsurer involved.
Reinsurance liabilities are primarily premiums payable for reinsurance contracts and are recognised as an expense when due.
The group assesses its reinsurance assets for impairment.
If there is objective evidence of impairment, then the carrying amount is reduced to its recoverable amount and the impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
Revenue Revenue consists of net earned premium, net investment income, profit commissions earned and managing agents fees.
Managing agents fees are recognised as the services are provided.
profit commissions are recognised as profit is confirmed.
Dividends paid Dividend distribution to the shareholders of the group is recognised in the period in which the dividends are approved by the shareholders in the groups annual general meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised in the period in which they are paid.
Plant and equipment All plant and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of the assets to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as follows: Fixtures and ttings Three to ten years Computer equipment Three years These assets residual value and useful lives are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted if appropriate.
The carrying values of plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
If any such condition exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of impairment and the difference is charged to the income statement.
Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
com 1 Statement of accounting policies continued Goodwill has an indefinite life and is annually tested for impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to each cash-generating unit being Lloyds and nonLloyds business for the purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill is impaired when the net present value of the forecast future cash ows is insufficient to support its carrying value.
On transition to IFRS at 1 January 2004, any goodwill previously amortised or written off was not reinstated.
b Syndicate capacity The syndicate capacity represents the cost of purchasing the groups participation in the combined syndicates.
The capacity is capitalised at cost in the balance sheet.
It has an indefinite useful life and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment.
It is annually tested for impairment by reference to the expected future profit streams to be earned by syndicate 2623 and provision is made for any impairment.
c Licences Licences are shown at fair value.
They have an indefinite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated impairment.
Licences are annually tested for impairment and provision is made for any impairment when the net present value of future cash ows is less than the carrying value.
d IT development costs Costs that are directly associated with the development of identiable and unique software products and that are anticipated to generate economic benets exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Costs include external consultants fees, certain qualifying internal staff costs and other costs incurred to develop software programmes.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful life three years on a straight-line basis.
Other non-qualifying costs are expensed as incurred.
Financial instruments Financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at such time that the group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument.
A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual rights to receive cash ows from the financial assets expire, or where the financial assets have been transferred, together with substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are derecognised if the groups obligations specified in the contract expire, are discharged or cancelled.
Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date, which is the date the group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
The fair value option in IAS 39 has been used to eliminate measurement or recognition inconsistency that would result from measuring assets or liabilities or recognising gains or losses on them on different bases.
Financial assets On acquisition of a financial asset, the group is required to classify the asset into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables, held to maturity and available for sale.
The group does not make use of the held to maturity and available for sale classications.
Financial assets at fair value through income statement This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading and those designated at fair value through the income statement at inception.
Trading assets are those assets which are acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term, or which are held as part of a portfolio in which there is evidence of short-term profit taking or if it is designated so by management.
Derivatives are classied as held for trading unless they are designated as hedging instruments.
A financial asset is designated as fair value through the income statement upon initial recognition if it is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis.
Information about these financial assets is provided internally on a fair value basis to the groups key management.
The groups investment strategy is to invest and evaluate their performance with reference to their fair values.
Upon initial recognition, attributable transaction costs are recognised in the income statement when incurred.
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement are measured at fair value, and changes therein are recognised in the income statement.
Net changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through the income statement exclude interest and dividend income.
Fair value measurement Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction on the measurement date.
When available, the group measures the fair value of an instrument using quoted prices in an active market for that instrument.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available and represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
If a market for a financial instrument is not active, the group establishes fair value using a valuation technique.
Valuation techniques include using recent arms length transactions between knowledgeable, willing parties if available, reference to the current fair value of other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash ow analyses and option pricing models.
The chosen valuation technique makes maximum use of market inputs, relies as little as possible on estimates specic to the group, incorporates all factors that market participants would consider in setting a price, and is consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing financial instruments.
Beazley Annual Report 2008 75 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Statement of accounting policies continued Inputs to valuation techniques reasonably represent market expectations and measures of the risk-return factors inherent in the financial instrument.
The group calibrates valuation techniques and tests them for validity using prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument or based on other available observable market data.
The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is the transaction price, i. e. the fair value of the consideration given or received, unless the fair value of that instrument is evidenced by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument i. e. without modication or repackaging or based on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets.
When transaction price provides the best evidence of fair value at initial recognition, the financial instrument is initially measured at the transaction price and any difference between this price and the value initially obtained from a valuation model is subsequently recognised in profit or loss depending on the individual facts and circumstances of the transaction but not later than when the valuation is supported wholly by observable market data or the transaction is closed out.
"""TTFUT BOE MPOH QPTJUJPOT BSF NFBTVSFE BU B CJE QSJDF MJBCJMJUJFT BOE TIPSU QPTJUJPOT BSF NFBTVSFE BU BO BTLJOH QSJDF 8IFSF UIF SPVQ IBT positions with offsetting risks, mid-market prices are used to measure the offsetting risk positions and a bid or asking price adjustment is applied only to the net open position as appropriate."
Fair values reect the credit risk of the instrument and include adjustments to take account of the credit risk of the Group entity and counterparty where appropriate.
Fair value estimates obtained from models are adjusted for any other factors, such as liquidity risk or model uncertainties, to the extent that the Group believes a third-party market participant would take them into account in pricing a transaction.
Hedge funds The group participates in a number of hedge funds and related financial instruments.
The valuation of these hedge funds is based on fair value techniques as described above.
The fair value of our hedge fund portfolio is calculated by reference to the underlying net asset values NAVs of each of the individual funds.
Consideration is also given in valuing these funds to any restriction applied to distributions, the existence of side pocket provisions, and the timing of the latest available valuations.
Insurance receivables and payables Insurance receivables and payables are recognised when due.
These include amounts due to and from agents, brokers and insurance contract holders.
These are classied as loans and receivables as they are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market.
Insurance receivables are measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairments.
Insurance payables are stated at amortised cost.
Other receivables Other receivables principally consist of prepayments, accrued income and sundry debtors and are carried at amortised cost.
Investment income Investment income consists of dividends, interest, realised and unrealised gains and losses and foreign exchange gains and losses on financial assets at fair value through the income statement.
Dividends on equity securities are recorded as revenue on the ex-dividend date.
Interest is recognised on an accruals basis for financial assets at fair value through the income statement.
The realised gains or losses on disposal of an investment is the difference between the proceeds and the carrying value of the investment.
Unrealised investment gains and losses represent the difference between the carrying value at the balance sheet date, and the carrying value at the previous period end or purchase value during the period.
Borrowings Borrowings are initially recorded at fair value less transaction costs incurred.
Subsequently borrowings are stated at amortised cost and interest is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Finance costs comprise interest payable, fees paid for the arrangement of debt and letter of credit facility and commissions charged for the utilisation of letters of credit.
These costs are recognised in the income statements using the effective interest method.
Other payables Other payables are stated at amortised cost.
Hedge accounting and derivative financial instruments Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting fair value gains or losses depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices in active markets, recent market transactions, and valuation techniques which include discounted cash ow models.
All derivatives are carried as assets when fair value is positive and as liabilities when fair value is negative.
The best evidence of fair value of a derivative at initial recognition is the transaction price.
The group designates certain derivatives as cash ow hedges or net investment hedges.
com 1 Statement of accounting policies continued The group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are being used in hedging transactions are expected to be and have been highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash ows of hedged items.
a Cash ow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ow hedges is recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within net fair value gains losses on derivative financial instruments.
If the derivative expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer meets the criteria for cash ow hedge accounting, or the designation is revoked, then hedge accounting is discontinued and the amount recognised in equity remains in equity until the forecast transaction affects the income statement.
If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, then the hedge accounting is discontinued and the balance in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement.
b Fair value hedges When a derivative is designated as a hedge of the change in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or a rm commitment, changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognised immediately in the income statement together with the changes in the fair value of the hedged item that are attributable to the hedged risk.
If the derivative expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer meets the criteria for fair value hedge accounting, or the designation is revoked, hedge accounting is discontinued.
Any adjustment up to that point, to a hedged item for which the effective interest method is used, is amortised to profit or loss as part of the recalculated effective interest rate of the item over its remaining life.
c Net investment hedges Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash ow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument SFMBUJOH UP UIF FGGFDUJWF QPSUJPO PG UIF IFEHF JT SFDPHOJTFE JO FRVJUZ UIF HBJO PS MPTT SFMBUJOH UP UIF JOFGGFDUJWF QPSUJPO JT SFDPHOJTFE immediately in the income statement within net fair value gains losses on financial investments through the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
Impairment of financial assets The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
A financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the assets and that event has an impact on the estimated cash ows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
If there is objective evidence that impairment exists, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the value of the estimated future cash ows.
The amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand, deposits held at call with banks, bank overdrafts and other short-term highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less from the date of acquisition.
Operating leases Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Payments made for operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Employee benets a Pension obligations The group operates a dened benefit pension plan that is now closed to future service accruals.
The scheme is generally funded by payments from the group taking account of the recommendations of an independent qualied actuary.
All employees now participate in a dened contribution pension funded by the group.
A dened benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors like age, years of service and compensation.
The pension costs are assessed using the projected unit credit method.
Under this method the costs of providing pensions are charged to the income statement so as to spread the regular costs over the service lives of employees in accordance with the advice of the qualied actuary, who values the plans annually.
The pension obligation is measured at present value of the estimated future net cash ows and is stated net of plan assets.
Actuarial gains or losses arising subsequent to 1 January 2004 are accounted for using the corridor method.
Actuarial gains or losses that exceed 10 per cent of the greater of the fair value of the plan assets or the present value of the gross dened benefit obligations in the scheme are recognised in the income statement over the average remaining working lives of employees participating in the scheme.
For the dened contribution plan, the group pays contributions to a privately administered pension plan.
Once the contributions have been paid, the group has no further obligations.
The groups contributions are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
b Share-based compensation The group offers option plans over the groups ordinary shares to certain employees, including the SAYE scheme, details of which are included in the directors remuneration report.
Beazley Annual Report 2008 77 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Statement of accounting policies continued The group accounts for share compensation plans that were granted after 7 November 2002.
The cost of providing share-based compensation is based on the fair value of the share options at grant date, which is recognised in the income statement over the expected service period of the related employees and a corresponding entry in reserves.
The fair value of the share options is determined using the Black Scholes method.
When the options are exercised, the proceeds received, net of any transaction costs, are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium.
Income taxes Income tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of prior periods.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised in the balance sheet to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit after tax available to shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares such as share options granted to employees.
The shares held in the employee share options plan ESOP are excluded from both the calculations, until such time as they vest unconditionally with the employees.
Provisions and contingencies Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outow of resources of economic benets will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made.
Where the group expects a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
Contingent liabilities are present obligations that are not recognised because it is not probable that an outow of resources will be required to meet the liabilities or if the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability.
2 Risk management The group has identied the risks arising from its activities and has established policies and procedures to manage these items in accordance with its risk appetite.
The group categorises its risks into six areas: insurance, credit, market, liquidity, operational and group risk.
The sections below outline the groups risk appetite and explain how it defines and manages each category of risk.
2.1 Insurance risk The groups insurance business assumes the risk of loss from persons or organisations that are directly exposed to an underlying loss.
Insurance risk arises from this risk transfer due to inherent uncertainties about the occurrence, amount and timing of insurance liabilities.
The four key components of insurance risk are underwriting, reinsurance, claims management and reserving.
Each element is considered below.
a Underwriting risk Underwriting risk comprises four elements that apply to all insurance products offered by the group: t $ZDMF SJTL o UIF SJTL UIBU CVTJOFTT JT XSJUUFO XJUIPVU GVMM LOPXMFEHF BT UP UIF JO BEFRVBDZ PG SBUFT UFSNT BOE DPOEJUJPOT t &WFOU SJTL o UIF SJTL UIBU JOEJWJEVBM SJTL MPTTFT PS DBUBTUSPQIFT MFBE UP DMBJNT UIBU BSF IJHIFS UIBO BOUJDJQBUFE JO QMBOT BOE QSJDJOH t 1SJDJOH SJTL o UIF SJTL UIBU UIF MFWFM PG FYQFDUFE MPTT JT VOEFSTUBUFE JO UIF QSJDJOH QSPDFTT BOE t &YQFOTF SJTL o UIF SJTL UIBU UIF BMMPXBODF GPS FYQFOTFT BOE JOnBUJPO JO QSJDJOH JT JOBEFRVBUF The groups underwriting strategy is to seek a diverse and balanced portfolio of risks in order to limit the variability of outcomes.
This is achieved by accepting a spread of business over time, segmented between different products, geography and size.
The annual business plans for each underwriting team reect the groups underwriting strategy, and set out the classes of business, the territories in which business is to be written and the industry sectors to which the group is prepared to expose itself.
These plans are approved by the board and monitored by the monthly underwriting committee.
Our underwriters calculate premiums for risks written based on a range of criteria tailored specically to each individual risk.
These factors include but are not limited to the financial exposure, loss history, risk characteristics, limits, deductibles, terms and conditions and acquisition expenses.
The group also recognises that insurance events are, by their nature, random, and the actual number and size of events during any one year may vary from those estimated using established statistical techniques.
com 2 Risk management continued To address this, the group sets out the exposure that it is prepared to accept in certain territories to a range of events such as natural catastrophes and specic scenarios which may result in large industry losses.
This is monitored through regular calculation of realistic disaster scenarios RDS.
The aggregate position is monitored at the time of underwriting a risk, and reports are regularly produced to highlight the key aggregations to which the group is exposed.
The group uses a number of modelling tools to monitor aggregation and to simulate catastrophe losses in order to measure the effectiveness of its reinsurance programmes.
Stress and scenario tests are also run using these models.
The range of scenarios considered include natural catastrophes, marine, liability, political, terrorism and war events.
One of the largest types of event exposure relates to natural catastrophe events such as ood damage, windstorm or earthquake.
Where possible the group measures geographic accumulations and uses its knowledge of the business, historical loss behaviour and commercial catastrophe modelling software to assess the probable maximum loss PML.
Upon application of the reinsurance coverage purchased, the key gross and net exposures are calculated on the basis of extreme events at a range of return periods.
The groups high level catastrophe risk appetite is set by the board and the business plans of each team are determined within these parameters.
The board may adjust these limits over time as conditions change.
Currently, the group operates to catastrophe risk appetite for a probabilistic 1 in 250 year US event of $340m net of reinsurance.
Lloyds has also dened its own specic set of RDS events for which all syndicates with relevant exposures must report.
Of these, the three largest events which impact Beazley are: 2008 2007 Modelled PML Modelled PML Modelled PML Modelled PML before after before after reinsurance reinsurance reinsurance reinsurance Lloyds prescribed natural catastrophe event $m $m $m $m San Francisco quake $74bn, 2007: $69bn 480.3 204.4 447.2 188.3 Gulf of Mexico windstorm $113bn, 2007: $108bn 418.0 189.8 413.3 202.9 Florida Pinellas windstorm $119bn, 2007: $106bn 387.7 172.5 359.6 186.4 The net exposure of the group to each of these modelled events at a given point in time is a function of assumptions made about how, where and the magnitude of the event that occurs, the amount of business written that is exposed to each event and the reinsurance arrangements in place.
To manage underwriting exposures, the group has developed limits of authority and business plans which are binding upon all staff authorised to underwrite and are specic to underwriters, classes of business and industry.
In 2008, the normal maximum gross PML line that any one underwriter could commit the managed syndicates to was $100m.
In most cases, maximum lines for classes of business were much lower than this.
These authority limits are enforced through a comprehensive sign-off process for underwriting transactions including dual sign-off for all line underwriters and peer review for all risks exceeding individual underwriters authority limits.
Exception reports are also run regularly to monitor compliance.
All underwriters also have a right to refuse renewal or change the terms and conditions of insurance contracts upon renewal.
Rate monitoring details, including limits, deductibles, exposures, terms and conditions and risk characteristics are also captured and the results are combined to monitor the rating environment for each class of business.
Binding Authority contracts A proportion of the groups insurance risks are transacted by third parties under delegated underwriting authorities.
Each third party is thoroughly vetted by our coverholder approval group before it can bind risks, and is subject to rigorous monitoring to maintain underwriting quality and confirm ongoing compliance with contractual guidelines.
Operating divisions In 2008, the groups business is divided into five operating divisions and the following table provides a geographical split of gross premiums written.
Europe 2008 UK North America Excl UK ROW Total Marine 12% 23% 22% 43% 100% Political risks and contingency 5% 9% 16% 70% 100% Property 21% 42% 6% 31% 100% Reinsurance 5% 55% 12% 28% 100% Specialty lines 9% 81% 6% 4% 100% Total 11% 55% 10% 24% 100% Beazley Annual Report 2008 79 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Risk management continued Europe 2007 UK North America Excl UK ROW Total Marine 11% 24% 22% 43% 100% Political risks and contingency 4% 9% 17% 70% 100% Property 24% 41% 6% 29% 100% Reinsurance 6% 56% 10% 28% 100% Specialty lines 9% 80% 6% 5% 100% Total 12% 54% 10% 24% 100% b Reinsurance risk Reinsurance risk to the group arises where reinsurance contracts put in place to reduce gross insurance risk do not perform as anticipated, result in coverage disputes or prove inadequate in terms of the vertical or horizontal limits purchased.
Failure of a reinsurer to pay a valid claim is considered a credit risk which is detailed separately below.
The groups reinsurance programmes compliment the underwriting team business plans and seek to protect group capital from an adverse volume or volatility of claims on both a per risk and per event basis.
In some cases the group deems it more economic to hold capital than purchase reinsurance.
These decisions are regularly reviewed as an integral part of the business planning and performance monitoring process.
The reinsurance security committee RSC examines and approves all reinsurers to ensure that they possess suitable security.
The groups ceded reinsurance team ensures that these guidelines are followed, undertakes the administration of reinsurance contracts, monitors and instigates our responses to any erosion of the reinsurance programmes.
c Claims management risk Claims management risk may arise within the group in the event of inaccurate or incomplete case reserves and claims settlements, poor service quality or excessive claims handling costs.
These risks may damage the group brand and undermine its ability to win and retain business or incur punitive damages.
These risks can occur at any stage of the claims life-cycle.
The groups claims teams are focused on delivering quality, reliability and speed of service to both internal and external clients.
Their aim is to adjust and process claims in a fair, efficient and timely manner, in accordance with the policys terms and conditions, the regulatory environment, and the business broader interests.
Prompt and accurate case reserves are set for all known claims liabilities, including provisions for expenses.
d Reserving and ultimate reserves risk Reserving and ultimate reserves risk occurs within the group where established insurance liabilities are insufficient through inaccurate forecasting, or where there is inadequate allowance for expenses and reinsurance bad debts in provisions.
To manage reserving and ultimate reserves risk, our experienced actuarial team uses a range of recognised techniques to project gross premiums written, monitor claims development patterns and stress test ultimate insurance liability balances.
An external independent actuary also performs an annual review to produce a statement of actuarial opinion for reporting entities within the group.
The objective of the groups reserving policy is to produce accurate and reliable estimates that are consistent over time and across classes of business.
The estimates of gross premiums written and claims prepared by the actuarial department are used through a formal quarterly peer review process to independently test the integrity of the estimates produced by the underwriting teams for each class of business.
These meetings are attended by senior management, senior underwriters, actuarial, claims, and finance representatives.
2.2 Credit risk Credit risk arises where counterparties fail to meet their financial obligations in full as they fall due.
The primary sources of credit risk for the group are: t 3FJOTVSFST o XIFSFCZ SFJOTVSFST NBZ GBJM UP QBZ WBMJE DMBJNT BHBJOTU B SFJOTVSBODF DPOUSBDU IFME CZ UIF HSPVQ t #SPLFST BOE JOUFSNFEJBSJFT o XIFSFCZ DPVOUFSQBSUJFT GBJM UP QBTT PO QSFNJVNT PS DMBJNT DPMMFDUFE PS QBJE PO CFIBMG PG UIF HSPVQ BOE t OWFTUNFOUT o XIFSFCZ JTTVFS EFGBVMU SFTVMUT JO UIF HSPVQ MPTJOH BMM PS QBSU PG UIF WBMVF PG B mOBODJBM JOTUSVNFOU The groups core business is to accept significant insurance risk and the appetite for other risks is low.
This protects the groups capital from erosion so that it can meet its insurance liabilities.
To assist in the understanding of credit risks, A. M. Best, Moodys and Standard & Poors S&P ratings are used.
These ratings have been categorised below as used for Lloyds reporting: A. M. Best Moodys S&P Tier 1 A to AAaa to A3 AAA to ATier 2 B to BBaa1 to Ba3 BBB to BBTier 3 C to CB1 to Caa B to CCC Tier 4 D, E, F, S Ca to C R, U, S 3 80 www.
com 2 Risk management continued The following tables summarise the groups significant concentrations of credit risk: Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Tier 4 Unrated Total 31 December 2008 m m m m m m Financial investments 1,366.0 63.0 1.0 120.6 1,550.6 Insurance receivables 287.8 287.8 Reinsurance assets 537.4 1.2 538.6 Cash and cash equivalents 441.9 1.7 443.6 Total 2,345.3 63.0 1.0 411.3 2,820.6 Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Tier 4 Unrated Total 31 December 2007 m m m m m m Financial investments 907.0 85.8 6.9 132.6 1,132.3 Insurance receivables 199.9 199.9 Reinsurance assets 343.3 10.0 353.3 Cash and cash equivalents 358.3 358.3 Total 1,608.6 85.8 6.9 342.5 2,043.8 The valuation methodology of the financial investments is described in the statement of accounting policies.
The carrying amount of financial assets at the balance sheet date represents the maximum credit exposure.
The group has insurance receivables that are past due but not impaired at the reporting date.
The group believes that impairment of these receivables is not appropriate on the basis of stage of collection of amounts owed.
An aged analysis of insurance receivables that are past due but not impaired is presented below: Greater than Premium debtors Not yet due Up to 30 days 30 60 days 60 90 days 90 days Total 31 December 2008 71% 16% 7% 2% 4% 100% 31 December 2007 72% 18% 4% 2% 4% 100% This analysis excludes binder and treaty reinsurance receivables.
An analysis of the overall credit risk exposure indicates that the group has reinsurance assets, insurance receivables and other debtors that are impaired at the reporting date.
The total impairment provision made in respect of these assets at 31 December 2008 totals 9.0m 2007: 5.7m.
These assets have been individually impaired after considering information such as the occurrence of significant changes in the counterpartys financial position, pattern of historical payment information and disputes with counterparties.
The group has developed processes to formally examine all reinsurers before entering into new business arrangements.
New reinsurers are approved by the RSC, which also reviews arrangements with all existing reinsurers at least annually.
Vulnerable or slow-paying reinsurers are examined more frequently.
An approval system also exists for all new brokers, and broker performance is carefully monitored.
Regular exception reports highlight trading with non-approved brokers, and the groups credit control function frequently assesses the ageing and collectability of debtor balances.
Any large, aged items are prioritised and where collection is outsourced, incentives are in place to support these priorities.
The investments committee has established comprehensive guidelines for the groups investment managers regarding the type, duration and quality of investments acceptable to the group.
The performance of investment managers is regularly reviewed to confirm adherence to these guidelines.
2.3 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk arises where cash may not be available to pay obligations when due at a reasonable cost.
The group is exposed to daily calls on its available cash resources, principally from claims arising from its insurance business.
In the majority of the cases, these claims are settled from the premiums received.
The groups approach is to manage its liquidity position so that it can reasonably survive a significant individual or market loss event.
This means that the group maintains sufficient liquid assets, or assets that can be translated into liquid assets at short notice and without any significant capital loss, to meet expected cash ow requirements.
These liquid funds are regularly monitored using cash ow forecasting to ensure that surplus funds are invested to achieve a higher rate of return.
The group also makes use of loan facilities and borrowings, details of which can be found in note 24.
Further information on the groups capital resources is contained on page 39.
Beazley Annual Report 2008 81 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Risk management continued The following is an analysis by business segment of the estimated timing of the net cash ows based on the claims liabilities balance held at 31 December 2008: Weighted average term Within Greater than to settlement 31 December 2008 1 year 2-3 years 4-5 years 5 years Total years Marine 44% 41% 14% 1% 100% 1.3 Political risks and contingency 37% 40% 20% 3% 100% 1.9 Property 53% 38% 7% 2% 100% 1.3 Reinsurance 45% 44% 10% 1% 100% 1.5 Specialty lines 21% 42% 26% 11% 100% 2.6 Weighted average term Within Greater than to settlement 31 December 2007 1 year 2-3 years 4-5 years 5 years Total years Marine 44% 42% 13% 1% 100% 1.6 Political risks and contingency 37% 40% 20% 3% 100% 1.9 Property 53% 38% 7% 2% 100% 1.3 Reinsurance 45% 44% 10% 1% 100% 1.5 Specialty lines 21% 42% 26% 11% 100% 2.6 2.4 Market risk Market risk arises where the value of assets and liabilities changes as a result of movements in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and market prices.
Foreign exchange risk The group is exposed to changes in the value of assets and liabilities due to movements in foreign exchange rates.
The group deals in four main currencies, US dollars, UK sterling, Canadian dollars and euros.
Transactions in all other currencies are converted to UK sterling on initial recognition and revalued at the balance sheet date.
The group manages foreign exchange exposure by projecting forward its US dollar profits for each calendar year and selling one twelfth of the expected amount each month.
The amounts sold are periodically validated against actual exposure and additional top up trades of US dollars are made if required.
The foreign exchange exposure to Canadian dollars and euros is closely monitored by the group and a similar approach will be taken to manage the risk as our exposure grows in the future.
The group also has investment in foreign subsidiaries with functional currencies that are different from the presentational currency.
This gives rise to a currency translation exposure to US dollars, Hong Kong dollars and Singapore dollars, although the exposures to Hong Kong dollars and Singapore dollars are minimal.
The US dollar translation exposure is managed by borrowing funds denominated in the same currency.
com 2 Risk management continued Sensitivity analysis Fluctuations in the groups main trading currencies would result in a change to net asset value.
The table below gives an indication of the impact on net assets of a % change in the value of the US dollar, Canadian dollar and euro, simultaneously, relative to UK sterling, with all other variables constant.
The analysis is based on the current information available and our assumptions in performing this analysis are: t UIF BOBMZTJT JODMVEFT BO FTUJNBUF PG UIF JNQBDU PO PVS GPSFJHO CPSSPXJOHT BOE DSPTT DVSSFODZ TXBQT BOE t UIF JNQBDU PG GPSFJHO FYDIBOHF PO OPO NPOFUBSZ JUFNT XJMM CF OJM Impact on net assets m 2008 2007 Change in exchange rate of US dollar, Canadian dollar and euro relative to UK sterling 30% 25.9 14.1 20% 18.7 10.2 10% 10.2 5.6 10% 12.5 6.8 20% 28.1 15.3 30% 48.2 26.2 Interest rate risk Some of the groups financial instruments, including financial investments, cash and cash equivalents and borrowings, are exposed to movements in market interest rates.
The group manages interest rate risk by primarily investing in short duration financial investments and cash and cash equivalents.
The investment committee monitors the duration of these assets on a regular basis.
The following table shows the average duration of the financial instruments.
Duration is a commonly used measure of volatility and we believe gives a better indication than maturity of the likely sensitivity of our portfolio to changes in interest rates.
Further details are provided in notes 24 and 25.
Sensitivity analysis The group holds financial assets and liabilities that are exposed to interest rate risk.
Changes in interest yields, with all other variables constant, would result in a loss of capital on debt securities and a change in value of borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
This will affect net assets as indicated in the table below.
Impact on Impact on investments borrowings and Total impact value derivative value on net assets m m m Shift in yield basis points 150 22.8 6.2 29.0 100 15.3 4.8 20.1 50 7.7 3.2 10.9 -50 7.2 0.1 7.3 -100 13.2 1.8 15.0 Price risk Debt securities, equities and hedge funds that are recognised on the balance sheet at their fair value are susceptible to losses due to adverse changes in prices.
This is referred to as price risk.
Investments are made in debt securities, equities and hedge funds depending on the groups appetite for risk.
These investments are well diversied with high quality, liquid securities.
The investment committee has established comprehensive guidelines with investment managers setting out maximum investment limits, diversication across industries and concentrations in any one industry or company.
Listed investments are recognised on the balance sheet at quoted bid price.
If the market for the investment is not considered to be active, then the group establishes fair value using valuation techniques.
This includes using recent arms length market transactions, reference to current fair value of other investments that are substantially the same, discounted cash ow models and other valuation techniques that are commonly used by market participants.
Sensitivity analysis The market price of debt securities have an inverse relationship to interest yields.
Sensitivity analysis on interest yields is provided above.
At 31 December 2008, the fair value of hedge funds and equities recognised on the balance sheet was 120.7m 2007: 125.8m.
If the fair value of the groups hedge fund and equity portfolios were to change, then the overall pre-tax impact on net assets would be impacted as indicated in the below table: Impact on net assets m Change in fair value of equity and hedge fund portfolios 2008 2007 30% 36.2 37.7 20% 24.1 25.2 10% 12.1 12.6 10% 12.1 12.6 20% 24.1 25.2 30% 36.2 37.7 2.5 Operational risk Operational risk arises from the risk of losses due to inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems, service providers or from external events.
There are a number of business activities for which the group uses the services of a third party company, such as investment management, data entry and credit control.
These service providers are selected against rigorous criteria and formal service level agreements are in place, and regularly monitored and reviewed.
The group also recognises that it is necessary for people, systems and infrastructure to be available to support our operations.
Therefore we have taken significant steps to mitigate the impact of business interruption which could follow a variety of events, including the loss of key individuals and facilities.
We operate a formal disaster recovery plan which, in the event of an incident, allows the group to move critical operations to an alternative location within 24 hours.
The group actively manages operational risks and minimises them where appropriate.
This is achieved by implementing and communicating guidelines to staff and other third parties.
The group also regularly monitors the performance of its controls and adherence to these guidelines through the risk management reporting process.
"com 2 Risk management continued Key components of the groups operational control environment include: t $"" NPEFMMJOH PG PQFSBUJPOBM SJTL FYQPTVSF BOE TDFOBSJP UFTUJOH t. BOBHFNFOU SFWJFX PG BDUJWJUJFT t %PDVNFOUBUJPO PG QPMJDJFT BOE QSPDFEVSFT t 1SFWFOUBUJWF BOE EFUFDUJWF DPOUSPMT XJUIJO LFZ QSPDFTTFT t $POUJOHFODZ QMBOOJOH BOE t 0UIFS TZTUFNT DPOUSPMT 2.6 Group risk Group risk occurs where business units fail to consider the impact of their activities on other parts of the group, as well as the risks arising from these activities."
There are four main components of group risk which are explained below.
Strategic This is the risk that the groups strategy is inappropriate or that the group is unable to implement its strategy.
There is no tolerance for any breach of guidance issued by the board, and where events supersede the group strategic plan this is escalated at the earliest opportunity through the groups monitoring tools and governance structure.
Reputation Reputation risk is the risk of negative publicity as a result of the groups contractual arrangements, customers, products, services and other activities.
Key sources of reputation risk include operation of a Lloyds franchise, interaction with capital markets since the groups IPO during 2002, and reliance upon the Beazley brand in the US, Europe and Asia.
The groups preference is to minimise reputation risks but where it is not possible or beneficial to avoid them, we seek to minimise their frequency and severity by management through public relations and communication channels.
Management stretch Management stretch is the risk that business growth might result in an insufficient or overly complicated management team structure, thereby undermining accountability and control within the group.
As the group expands its business worldwide, management stretch may make the identication, analysis and control of group risks more complex.
On a day-to-day basis, the groups management structure encourages organisational exibility and adaptability, while ensuring that activities are appropriately coordinated and controlled.
By focusing on the needs of their customers and demonstrating both progressive and responsive abilities, staff, management and outsourced service providers are expected to excel in service and quality.
Individuals and teams are also expected to transact their activities in an open and transparent way.
These behavioral expectations reafrm low group risk tolerance by aligning interests to ensure that routine activities, projects and other initiatives are implemented to benefit and protect resources of both local business segments and the group as a whole.
Capital management The group follows a risk based approach to determine the amount of capital required to support its activities.
Recognised stochastic modelling techniques are used to measure risk exposures, and capital to support business activities is allocated according to risk prole.
Stress and scenario analysis is regularly performed and the results are documented and reconciled to the boards risk appetite where necessary.
The group has several requirements for capital, including: 1 To support underwriting at Lloyds through syndicates 2623, 3623 and 3622.
This is based on the groups own individual capital BTTFTTNFOU 5IJT NBZ CF QSPWJEFE JO UIF GPSN PG FJUIFS UIF HSPVQ T DBTI BOE JOWFTUNFOUT PS EFCU GBDJMJUJFT 5P TVQQPSU VOEFSXSJUJOH JO #FB[MFZ OTVSBODF $PNQBOZ OD JO UIF 64 BOE 3 To make acquisitions, such as Momentum Underwriting Management Ltd in 2008, of insurance companies or MGAs whose strategic goals are aligned with our own.
3 Segmental analysis Segment information is presented in respect of reportable segments.
This is based on the groups management and internal reporting structures and represents the level at which financial information is reported to the board, being the chief operating decision maker as dened in IFRS 8.
The operating segments are based upon the different types of insurance risk underwritten by the group as described below: Marine This segment underwrites a broad spectrum of marine classes including hull, energy, cargo & specie and war risks.
Political risks and contingency This segment underwrites terrorism, political violence, expropriation and credit risks as well as contingency and risks associated with contract frustration.
Property The property segment underwrites commercial, high-value homeowners and engineering property insurance on a worldwide basis.
Reinsurance This division specialises in writing property catastrophe, property per risk, aggregate excess of loss and pro-rata business.
Beazley Annual Report 2008 85 Notes to the financial statements continued 3 Segmental analysis continued Specialty lines This segment mainly underwrites professional lines, employment practices liability, specialty liability, directors and ofcers liability and healthcare.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Foreign exchange differences on non-monetary items have been left unallocated.
This has been separately disclosed as it provides a fairer representation of the loss ratios, which would otherwise be distorted by the mismatch arising under IFRSs whereby unearned premium reserve, reinsurers share of unearned premium reserve and DAC are treated as non-monetary items and claims reserves are treated as monetary items.
Non-monetary items are carried at historic exchange rates, while monetary items are translated at closing rates.
This imbalance creates volatility in our accounts which cannot be hedged as the mismatch is not monetary in nature.
Finance costs and taxation are not allocated to operating segments as these items are determined by entity level factors and do not relate to operating performance.
The unallocated segment assets relate to the foreign exchange adjustment to non-monetary items.
This adjustment is not allocated by segment.
2008 2007 m m Net earned premiums Lloyds 664.7 609.4 Non-Lloyds 18.4 7.8 683.1 617.2 Segment assets Lloyds 2,785.1 2,035.4 Non-Lloyds 212.4 145.3 2,997.5 2,180.7 Beazley Annual Report 2008 87 Notes to the financial statements continued 3 Segmental analysis continued Capital expenditure 2008 2007 m m Lloyds 24.1 9.7 Non-Lloyds 1.4 24.1 11.1 4 Net investment income 2008 2007 m m Investment income at fair value through income statement 65.1 53.1 Realised gains losses on financial investments at fair value through income statement 49.5 7.4 Net fair value gains losses on financial investments through income statement 38.1 6.9 Investment management expenses 3.3 2.5 25.8 64.9 5 Other income 2008 2007 m m profit commissions 5.0 7.6 Agency fees 1.0 1.0 Other income 4.1 1.5 10.1 10.1 6 Operating expenses 2008 2007 m m Fees payable to the companys auditor for the audit of the groups annual accounts 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to the companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of the companys subsidiaries 0.2 0.1 Tax services 0.1 0.1 other services 0.2 0.2 Operating leases 2.4 2.0 7 Employee benefit expenses 2008 2007 Group Company Group Company m m m m Wages and salaries 34.6 0.3 30.7 0.3 Short-term incentive payments 10.5 19.6 Social security 4.4 3.8 Share-based remunerations 4.7 3.0 Pension costs 3.0 3.9 57.2 0.3 61.0 0.3 Recharged to syndicate 623 7.8 7.0 49.4 0.3 54.0 0.3 Further information on employees is provided on page 33.
com 8 Finance costs 2008 2007 m m Interest expense 12.2 11.8 Arrangement fees 0.4 0.2 12.6 12.0 9 Income tax expense 2008 2007 m m Current tax expense Current year 20.7 20.2 Prior year adjustments 0.7 2.1 20.0 18.1 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences 3.0 19.2 Prior year adjustments 0.2 0.8 2.8 20.0 Income tax expense 22.8 38.1 profit before tax 87.2 138.5 Tax calculated at UK tax rates 24.9 39.9 Effects of: Tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 0.2 0.5 Non-deductible expenses 1.5 0.2 Tax relief on share-based payments current and future years 2.9 1.2 Under over provided in prior years 0.9 1.3 Tax charge for the period 22.8 38.1 The weighted average applicable tax rate was 28.5% 2007: 28.3%.
10 Earnings per share 2008 2007 Basic 18.8p 28.1p Diluted 18.0p 27.1p Basic Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit after tax of 64.4m 2007: 100.4m by the weighted average number of issued shares during the year of 342.6m 2007: 357.4m.
The shares held in the Employee Share Options Plan ESOP have been excluded from the calculation, until such time as they vest unconditionally with the employees.
In addition, the treasury shares have been excluded from the calculation.
Diluted Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit after tax of 64.4m 2007: 100.4m by the adjusted weighted average number of shares of 358.7m 2007: 366.0m.
The adjusted weighted average number of shares assumes conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares, being shares from the SAYE, retention and deferred share schemes.
The shares held in the ESOP have been excluded from the calculation, until such time as they vest unconditionally with the employees.
11 Dividends per share The final dividend of 4.4p 2007: 4.0p final and 4.0p special per ordinary share, will be payable on 30 April 2009 to shareholders registered on 13 March 2009 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008.
Together with the interim dividend of 2.2p 2007: 2.0p this brings the total ordinary dividend to 6.6p 2007: 10.0p including 4.0p special.
These financial statements do not provide for the final dividend as a liability.
Beazley Annual Report 2008 89 Notes to the financial statements continued 12 Intangible assets Syndicate IT development Goodwill capacity Licences costs Total m m m m m Cost Balance at 1 January 2007 7.9 4.4 4.6 6.5 23.4 Acquired through business combinations 7.6 7.6 Other additions 1.7 1.7 Amounts written off 0.2 0.2 Balance at 31 December 2007 15.5 4.4 4.6 8.0 32.5 Balance at 1 January 2008 15.5 4.4 4.6 8.0 32.5 Acquired through business combinations 17.9 17.9 Other additions 0.5 3.3 3.8 Foreign exchange gain 3.8 1.8 5.6 Amounts written off 1.3 1.3 Balance at 31 December 2008 35.9 4.9 6.4 11.3 58.5 Amortisation Balance at 1 January 2007 1.5 1.5 Amounts written off during the year 0.1 0.1 Amortisation for the year 2.4 2.4 Balance at 31 December 2007 3.8 3.8 Balance at 1 January 2008 3.8 3.8 Amounts written off during the year Amortisation for the year 2.2 2.2 Balance at 31 December 2008 6.0 6.0 Carrying amount 31 December 2008 35.9 4.9 6.4 5.3 52.5 31 December 2007 15.5 4.4 4.6 4.2 28.7 Impairment tests Goodwill, syndicate capacity and licences are deemed to have indefinite life.
Consequently, they are not amortised but annually tested for impairment.
They are allocated to the groups cash generating units CGUs as follows: 2008 2007 Lloyds Non-Lloyds Lloyds Non-Lloyds m m m m Goodwill 35.9 15.5 Syndicate capacity 4.9 4.4 Licences 6.4 4.6 When testing for impairment, the recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value in use.
Value in use is calculated using projected cash ows based on financial budgets approved by management covering a five-year period.
This growth rate is consistent with the long-term average growth rate for the industry.
A discount rate of growth of 6%, being the groups weighted average cost of capital, has been used to discount the projected cash ows.
The split of Lloyds Non-Lloyds business is the most appropriate level at which these intangible assets can be allocated since the assets were purchased in respect of future revenue streams to the Lloyds syndicates and the US admitted insurance company Non-Lloyds.
com 13 Plant and equipment Fixtures Computer & ttings equipment Total m m m Cost Balance at 1 January 2007 7.3 0.9 8.2 Additions 0.9 0.9 1.8 Balance at 31 December 2007 8.2 1.8 10.0 Balance at 1 January 2008 8.2 1.8 10.0 Additions 1.0 1.4 2.4 Foreign exchange gain 0.8 0.3 1.1 Balance at 31 December 2008 10.0 3.5 13.5 Accumulated depreciation Balance at 1 January 2007 1.0 0.2 1.2 Depreciation charge for the year 1.2 0.4 1.6 Balance at 31 December 2007 2.2 0.6 2.8 Balance at 1 January 2008 2.2 0.6 2.8 Depreciation charge for the year 1.5 0.8 2.3 Foreign exchange loss 0.2 0.1 0.3 Balance at 31 December 2008 3.9 1.5 5.4 Carrying amounts 31 December 2008 6.1 2.0 8.1 31 December 2007 6.0 1.2 7.2 14 Investment in associates On 12 December 2008, Beazley Furlonge Holdings Limited BFHL purchased the remaining share capital that it did not already own in Beazley Finance Limited.
BFHL previously owned 5,000,000 ordinary shares in Beazley Finance Limited representing 22.7% of its entire share capital reecting this investment as an associate.
Following the transaction on 12 December 2008, BFHL owned 22,000,000 ordinary shares in Beazley Finance Limited, being 100% of its share capital.
Beazley Finance and its wholly owned subsidiary, Beazley Dedicated Limited, now represent wholly owned subsidiaries of the ultimate parent, Beazley Group plc.
The consideration for this transaction was 1 and the net assets acquired were nil.
Beazley Finance Limited and Beazley Dedicated Limited are not active trading companies and it is anticipated that they will become dormant.
15 Deferred acquisition costs 2008 2007 m m Balance at 1 January 82.0 78.9 Additions 192.1 182.3 Amortisation charge 182.6 179.2 Balance at 31 December 91.5 82.0 Beazley Annual Report 2008 91 Notes to the financial statements continued 16 Financial investments 2008 2007 Group Company Group Company m m m m Financial investments at fair value through income statement 18.1 Equity securities-listed 54.7 Hedge funds 102.6 71.1 Debt securities Fixed interest 1,089.8 307.9 778.4 298.1 Floating interest 340.1 78.9 228.1 43.7 Total financial investments at fair value through income statement 1,550.6 386.8 1,132.3 341.8 Current 795.2 247.3 483.8 192.8 Non-current 755.3 139.5 648.5 149.0 1,550.6 386.8 1,132.3 341.8 A further breakdown of the groups investment portfolio is provided on pages 34 and 35.
The group has given a xed and oating charge over its investments and other assets to secure obligations to Lloyds in respect of its corporate member subsidiary.
Further details are provided in note 32.
17 Insurance receivables 2008 2007 m m Insurance receivables 287.8 199.9 287.8 199.9 These are receivable within one year and relate to business transacted with brokers and intermediaries.
All insurance receivables are designated as loans and receivables.
18 Reinsurance assets 2008 2007 m m Reinsurers share of claims 461.7 286.1 Impairment provision 9.0 5.7 452.7 280.4 Reinsurers share of unearned premium reserve 85.9 72.9 538.6 353.3 Further analysis of the reinsurance asset is provided in note 23.
com 19 Cash and cash equivalents 2008 2007 Group Company Group Company m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 124.4 3.8 39.5 0.6 Short-term deposits 212.9 1.6 245.8 20.3 Overseas deposits 106.3 73.0 Cash and cash equivalents 443.6 5.4 358.3 20.9 20 Share capital 2008 2007 No.
of shares m m shares m m Ordinary shares of 5p each Authorised 450.0 22.5 450.0 22.5 Issued and fully paid 369.5 18.5 367.1 18.4 Balance at 1 January 367.1 18.4 361.0 18.1 Issue of shares 2.4 0.1 6.1 0.3 Balance at 31 December 369.5 18.5 367.1 18.4 21 Reserves Foreign Employee Employee currency share share Share Merger translation options Treasury trust premium reserve reserve reserve shares reserve Total m m m m m m m Group Balance at 1 January 2007 230.8 1.6 2.6 1.6 5.6 225.8 Issue of shares 4.0 4.0 Share-based payments 3.4 3.4 Acquisition of own shares held in trust 5.4 5.4 Purchase of treasury shares 5.1 5.1 Foreign exchange translation differences 0.1 0.1 Transfer of shares to employees 0.3 0.3 Balance at 31 December 2007 234.8 1.6 2.5 5.0 5.1 10.7 223.1 Issue of shares 0.8 0.8 Share-based payments 3.4 3.4 Acquisition of own shares held in trust 7.1 7.1 Purchase of treasury shares 24.9 24.9 Foreign exchange translation differences 11.6 11.6 Transfer of shares to employees 1.2 1.2 Balance at 31 December 2008 235.6 1.6 9.1 8.4 30.0 16.6 208.1 The above movements in reserves are stated net of any related taxation.
Beazley Annual Report 2008 93 Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Reserves continued Foreign Employee Employee currency share share Share Merger translation options Treasury trust premium reserve reserve reserve shares reserve Total m m m m m m m Company Balance at 1 January 2007 230.8 0.1 230.9 Issue of shares 4.0 4.0 Share-based payments 5.0 5.0 Purchase of treasury shares 5.1 5.1 Acquisition of own shares held in trust 11.0 11.0 Transfer of shares to employees 0.3 0.3 Balance at 31 December 2007 234.8 0.1 5.0 5.1 10.7 224.1 Issue of shares 0.8 0.8 Share-based payments 3.4 3.4 Purchase of treasury shares 24.9 24.9 Acquisition of own shares held in trust 7.1 7.1 Transfer of shares to employees 1.2 1.2 Foreign exchange translation differences 4.5 4.5 Balance at 31 December 2008 235.6 4.4 8.4 30.0 16.6 193.0 22 Equity compensation plans 22.1 Employee share trust 2008 2007 No.
of shares m m Costs debited to employee share trust reserve Balance at 1 January 8.4 10.7 5.2 5.6 Additions 5.1 7.1 3.5 5.4 Transfer of shares to employees 0.9 1.2 0.3 0.3 Balance at 31 December 12.6 16.6 8.4 10.7 The shares are owned by the employee share trust to satisfy awards under the groups deferred share plan and retention plan.
These shares are purchased on the market and carried at cost.
On the third anniversary of an award the shares under the deferred share plan are transferred from the trust to the employees.
Under the retention plan, on the third anniversary, and each year after that, 25% of the shares awarded are transferred to the employees.
The deferred share plan is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over a period of three years, while the retention share plan is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over a period of six years.
22.2 Employee share option plans The group has a long-term incentive plan LTIP, approved share option plan, unapproved share option plan and SAYE that entitle employees to purchase shares in the group.
In accordance with these plans, options are exercisable at the market price of the shares at the date of the grant.
com 22 Equity compensation plans continued The terms and conditions of the grants are as follows: Share option plan Grant date No.
of options m Vesting conditions Contractual life of options LTIP 21 03 2005 0.4 Three years service NAV TSR comparator 10 years 21 03 2006 1.5 21 03 2007 0.7 21 03 2008 0.6 Approved share option plan 29 03 2004 0.1 Three years service NAV 10 years Unapproved share option plan 29 03 2004 0.1 Three years service NAV 10 years 06 12 2004 0.1 SAYE 13 04 2006 0.5 Three years service 11 04 2007 0.6 18 04 2008 0.4 Total share options outstanding 5.0 Vesting conditions In summary the vesting conditions are dened as: Three years service An employee has to remain in employment until the third anniversary from the grant date.
NAV The NAV growth is greater than the risk-free rate of return plus a premium per year.
TSR comparator The groups TSR growth is compared with that of members of the comparator group over a three-year period starting with the year in which the award is made.
Further details of equity compensation plans can be found in the directors remuneration report on pages 54 to 63.
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows: 2008 2007 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise price pence No.
of options price pence No.
of options per share m per share m Outstanding at 1 January 33.8 6.9 43.2 10.2 Forfeited during the year 25.8 0.7 49.7 2.8 Exercised during the year 33.5 2.4 77.4 1.9 Granted during the year 47.6 1.2 55.9 1.4 Outstanding at 31 December 37.6 5.0 33.8 6.9 Exercisable at 31 December 0.8 0.9 The share option programme allows group employees to acquire shares of the company.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in employee share options reserve.
The fair value of the options granted is measured at grant date and spread over the period in which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using the Black Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reect the actual number of share options that vest, except where forfeiture is due to the share option achieving the vesting conditions.
Beazley Annual Report 2008 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Equity compensation plans continued The following is a summary of the assumptions used to calculate the fair value: 2008 2007 m m Share options charge to income statement 4.7 3.1 Weighted average share price pence per option 123.8 108.7 Weighted average exercise price pence per option 37.6 33.8 Weighted average expected life of options 5.6yrs 5.7yrs Expected volatility 25.0% 25.0% Expected dividend yield 4.0% 4.0% Average risk-free interest rate 4.3% 4.2% The expected volatility is based on historic volatility over a period of at least two years.
23 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets 2008 2007 m m Gross Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 497.3 302.0 Claims incurred but not reported 1,291.6 785.6 Gross claims liabilities 1,788.9 1,087.6 Unearned premiums 457.8 384.3 Total insurance liabilities, gross 2,246.7 1,471.9 Recoverable from reinsurers Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 109.4 89.1 Claims incurred but not reported 343.3 191.3 Reinsurers share of claims liabilities 452.7 280.4 Unearned premiums 85.9 72.9 Total reinsurers share of insurance liabilities 538.6 353.3 Net Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 387.9 212.9 Claims incurred but not reported 948.3 594.3 Net claims liabilities 1,336.2 807.2 Unearned premiums 371.9 311.4 Total insurance liabilities, net 1,708.1 1,118.6 The gross claims reported, the loss adjustment liabilities and the liabilities for claims incurred but not reported are net of expected recoveries from salvage and subrogation.
com 23 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued 23.1 Movements in insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets a Claims and loss adjustment expenses 2008 2007 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net m m m m m m Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 302.0 89.1 212.9 278.2 103.1 175.1 Claims incurred but not reported 785.6 191.3 594.3 587.8 166.8 421.0 Balance at 1 January 1,087.6 280.4 807.2 866.0 269.9 596.1 Claims paid 276.7 62.0 214.7 224.0 55.5 168.5 Increase in claims Arising from current year claims 631.5 157.6 438.2 425.0 53.5 371.5 Arising from prior year claims 109.4 36.6 37.2 86.4 22.3 64.1 Reinsurance to close 66.4 20.4 46.0 109.1 37.6 71.5 Net exchange differences 389.5 92.9 296.6 2.1 2.8 0.7 Balance at 31 December 1,788.9 452.7 1,336.2 1,087.6 280.4 807.2 Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 497.3 109.4 387.9 302.0 89.1 212.9 Claims incurred but not reported 1,291.6 343.3 948.3 785.6 191.3 594.3 Balance at 31 December 1,788.9 452.7 1,336.2 1,087.6 280.4 807.2 b Unearned premiums reserve 2008 2007 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 384.3 72.9 311.4 359.6 83.2 276.4 Increase in the year 875.7 135.3 740.4 780.5 128.3 652.2 Release in the year 822.3 139.2 683.1 755.8 138.6 617.2 Net exchange differences arising in overseas subsidiary 20.1 16.9 3.2 Balance at 31 December 457.8 85.9 371.9 384.3 72.9 311.4 23.2 Assumptions, changes in assumptions and sensitivity a Process used to decide on assumptions The peer review reserving process Beazley uses a quarterly dual track process to set its reserve: t 5IF BDUVBSJBM UFBN VTFT TFWFSBM BDUVBSJBM BOE TUBUJTUJDBM NFUIPET UP FTUJNBUF UIF VMUJNBUF QSFNJVN BOE DMBJNT DPTUT 5IF NPTU BQQSPQSJBUF NFUIPET BSF TFMFDUFE EFQFOEJOH PO UIF OBUVSF PG FBDI DMBTT PG CVTJOFTT BOE t 5IF VOEFSXSJUJOH UFBNT DPODVSSFOUMZ SFWJFX UIF EFWFMPQNFOU PG UIF JODVSSFE MPTT SBUJP PWFS UJNF XPSL XJUI PVS DMBJNT NBOBHFST UP TFU specic reserve estimates for identied claims and utilise their detailed understanding of the risks underwritten to establish an alternative estimate of ultimate claims cost which are compared to the actuarially established gures.
Beazley Annual Report 2008 97 Notes to the financial statements continued 23 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued A formal internal peer review process is then undertaken to determine the reserves held for accounting purposes which, in totality, is not lower than the actuarially established gure.
The group also commissions an annual independent review to ensure that the reserves established are reasonable.
Actuarial assumptions Chain-ladder techniques are applied to premiums, paid claims and incurred claims i. e. paid claims plus case estimates.
The basic technique involves the analysis of historical claims development factors and the selection of estimated development factors based on historical patterns.
The selected development factors are then applied to cumulative claims data for each underwriting year that is not yet fully developed to produce an estimated ultimate claims cost for each underwriting year.
Chain-ladder techniques are most appropriate for classes of business that have a relatively stable development pattern.
Chain-ladder techniques are less suitable in cases in which the insurer does not have a developed claims history for a particular class of business or for underwriting years that are still at immature stages of development where there is a higher level of assumption volatility.
The Bornhuetter-Ferguson method uses a combination of a benchmark market-based estimate and an estimate based on claims experience.
5IF GPSNFS JT CBTFE PO B NFBTVSF PG FYQPTVSF TVDI BT QSFNJVNT UIF MBUUFS JT CBTFE PO UIF QBJE PS JODVSSFE DMBJNT PCTFSWFE UP EBUF 5IF two estimates are combined using a formula that gives more weight to the experience-based estimate as time passes.
This technique has been used in situations where developed claims experience was not available for the projection i. e. recent underwriting years or new classes of business.
The expected loss ratio method uses a benchmark market-based estimate applied to the expected premium and is used for classes with little or no relevant historical data.
The choice of selected results for each underwriting year of each class of business depends on an assessment of the technique that has been most appropriate to observed historical developments.
In certain instances, this has meant that different techniques or combinations of techniques have been selected for individual underwriting years or groups of underwriting years within the same class of business.
As such, there are many assumptions used to estimate general insurance liabilities.
We also review triangulations of the paid outstanding claim ratios as a way of monitoring any changes in the strength of the outstanding claim estimates between underwriting years so that adjustment can be made to mitigate any subsequent over or under reserving.
To date, this analysis indicates no systematic change to the outstanding claim strength across underwriting years.
Where a signicantly large loss impacts an underwriting year e. g. the events of 11 September 2001 and the hurricanes in 2004, 2005 and 2008, its development is usually very different from the attritional losses.
In these situations, the large loss is extracted from the remainder of the data and analysed separately by the respective claims managers using exposure analysis of the policies in force in the areas affected.
Further assumptions are required to convert gross of reinsurance estimates of ultimate claims cost to a net of reinsurance level and to establish reserves for unallocated claims handling expenses and reinsurance bad debt.
b Major assumptions The main assumption underlying these techniques is that the groups past claims development experience with appropriate adjustments for known changes can be used to project future claims development and hence ultimate claims costs.
As such these methods extrapolate the development of premiums, paid and incurred losses, average costs per claim and claim numbers for each underwriting year based on the observed development of earlier years.
Throughout, judgment is used to assess the extent to which past trends may not apply in the future, for example, to reect changes in external or market factors such as economic conditions, public attitudes to claiming, levels of claims ination, premium rate changes, judicial decisions and legislation, as well as internal factors such as portfolio mix, policy conditions and claims handling procedures.
com 23 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued c Changes in assumptions As already discussed, general insurance business requires many different assumptions.
The diagram below illustrates the main categories of assumptions used for each underwriting year and class combinations.
Marine Political risks and contingency Premium rate change Property Claims inflation Reinsurance Mix of business Specialty lines Reporting patterns Settlement patterns Judicial decisions Professional judgment Underwriting years 1993 1994... 2007 2008 Given the range of assumptions used, the groups profit or loss is relatively insensitive to changes to a particular assumption used for an underwriting year class combination.
However, the groups profit or loss is potentially more sensitive to a systematic change in assumptions that affect many classes, such as judicial changes or when catastrophes produce more claims than expected.
The group uses a range of risk mitigation strategies to reduce the volatility including the purchase of reinsurance.
In addition, the group holds additional capital as ICA.
The net of reinsurance estimates of ultimate claims costs on the 2007 and prior underwriting years has improved by 72.8m during 2008 2007: 64.1m.
This movement has arisen from a combination of better than expected claims experience coupled with small changes to the many assumptions reacting to the observed experience and anticipating any changes as a result of the new business written.
d Sensitivity analysis The estimation of IBNR reserves for future claim notications is subject to a greater degree of uncertainty than the estimation of the outstanding claims already notied.
This is particularly true for the specialty lines business, which will typically display greater variations between initial estimates and final outcomes as a result of the greater degree of difficulty in estimating these reserves.
The estimation of IBNR reserves for other business written is generally subject to less variability as claims are generally reported and settled relatively quickly.
As such, our reserving assumptions contain a reasonable margin for prudence given the uncertainties inherent in the insurance business underwritten, particularly on the longer tailed specialty lines classes.
Since year end 2004, we have identied a range of possible outcomes for each class and underwriting year combination directly from our ICA process.
Comparing these with our pricing assumptions and reserving estimates gives our management team increased clarity into our perceived reserving strength and relative uncertainties of the business written.
To illustrate the robustness of our reserves, the loss development tables below provide information about historical claims development by the five segments Marine, Political risks and contingency, Property, Reinsurance and Specialty lines.
The tables are by underwriting year which in our view provides the most transparent reserving basis.
We have supplied tables for both ultimate gross claims and ultimate net claims.
The top part of the table illustrates how the groups estimate of claims ratio for each underwriting year has changed at successive year-ends.
The bottom half of the table reconciles the gross and net claims to the amount appearing in the balance sheet.
While the information in the table provides a historical perspective on the adequacy of the claims liabilities established in previous years, users of these financial statements are cautioned against extrapolating redundancies or deficiencies of the past on current claims liabilities.
The group believes that the estimate of total claims liabilities as at 31 December 2008 are adequate.
However, due to inherent uncertainties in the reserving process, it cannot be assured that such balances will ultimately prove to be adequate.
Beazleys relatively light participation has meant that the general trend of reducing loss ratios across our business has continued.
The impact of hurricanes Gustav and Ike has increased our initial net estimates for 2008 relative to 2007 on the marine, property and reinsurance classes of business.
Our claim managers have performed detailed exposure and case by case claim analyses to set cautious estimates.
The 2008 hurricanes have also affected the 2007 underwriting year of the marine and property classes of business.
However, this impact has largely been offset by the release of the catastrophe margin that remained on the 2007 underwriting year.
The reserves established for the 2004 and 2005 hurricanes continue to remain sufficient and some reserve releases have been possible.
The level of paid claims has now reached 93% and 88% of the estimated ultimate claims costs respectively.
Marine Most years have exhibited a stable or reducing trend.
The slight in increase in 2007 has been caused by the 2008 hurricanes affecting that underwriting year more than anticipated.
Our initial analysis indicates that the case-specic hurricane reserves proposed by the surveyors are conservative following deficiencies that arose from the 2005 hurricanes.
As such, we expect that the 2008 hurricane reserves will reduce over time.
Nevertheless, any savings will affect gross estimates only as the hurricane claims are currently within our catastrophe reinsurance programme.
Political risks and contingency Reductions have been seen on all years as claims continue to develop favourably.
Property Despite the increase in claims within the market, most years have exhibited a relatively stable or reducing trend.
The slight increases on the 2005 underwriting year have arisen from the homeowners class where we have experienced a general deterioration on two large accounts on which we no longer participate.
The 2008 hurricanes have meant that the opening position for 2008 is slightly higher than for 2007.
Reinsurance The reduction on the 2005 year has arisen following an updated review of the remaining exposures to the 2005 hurricanes by our claims managers.
The remaining catastrophe margin on 2007 has now been released.
The 2007 net ultimate loss ratio is lower than the corresponding 2006 net ultimate ratio because of lower reinsurance costs in 2007.
The opening net position for 2008 is higher than for 2007 due to the 2008 hurricanes.
Specialty lines Whilst the releases have started to slow down on the 2003 underwriting year a year of exceptional performance, the ultimate loss ratios have continued to reduce on the more recent years.
Whilst reductions made to date have been lower on each subsequent year to reect the uncertainty caused by the prevailing market conditions, this does not imply that the final position on each subsequent underwriting year once all claims are closed will be worse.
The table below illustrates movements in our net claims recognised in the income statement in 2008 by both underwriting year and by business segments: Political risks Marine & contingency Property Reinsurance Specialty lines Total 2008 m m m m m m Current year 74.6 26.0 109.0 38.4 225.9 473.9 Prior year 2005 and earlier 2.3 5.8 2.1 6.0 27.2 39.2 2006 year of account 10.5 1.1 3.5 0.3 15.4 2007 year of account 4.7 2.4 10.3 0.8 18.2 12.8 11.6 3.8 16.6 28.0 72.8 Net insurance claims 61.8 14.4 105.2 21.8 197.9 401.1 102 www.
com 23 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued Political risks Marine & contingency Property Reinsurance Specialty lines Total Year to 31 December 2007 m m m m m m Current year 55.2 20.0 87.4 26.1 182.8 371.5 Prior year 2004 and earlier 0.3 4.5 2.0 3.0 21.0 30.8 2005 year of account 4.6 2.2 3.5 1.7 3.2 15.2 2006 year of account 5.1 2.2 5.3 5.2 0.3 18.1 10.0 8.9 10.8 9.9 24.5 64.1 Net insurance claims 45.2 11.1 76.6 16.2 158.3 307.4 24 Borrowings The carrying amount and fair values of the non-current borrowings are as follows: 2008 2007 Group Company Group Company m m m m Carrying value Subordinated debt 12.5 12.5 9.0 9.0 Tier 2 subordinated debt 165.0 160.3 147.7 147.9 177.5 172.8 156.7 156.9 Fair value Subordinated debt 12.5 12.5 9.0 9.0 Tier 2 subordinated debt 116.8 116.8 144.6 144.6 129.3 129.3 153.6 153.6 The fair value of the borrowings is based on quoted market prices.
When quoted market prices are not available, a discounted cash ow model is used based on a current yield curve appropriate for the remaining term to maturity.
The discount rates used in the valuation techniques are based on the borrowing rates.
In November 2004, the group issued subordinated debt of US $18m to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A JPMorgan.
The loan was unsecured and interest was payable at the US London interbank offered rate LIBOR plus a margin of 3.65% per annum.
The subordinated notes are due in November 2034.
In October 2006, the group issued 150m of unsecured xed oating rate subordinated notes that are due in October 2026 with a first callable date of October 2016.
Interest of 7.25% per annum is paid annually in arrears for the period up to October 2016.
From October 2016, the notes will bear annual interest at the rate of 3.28% above LIBOR.
The notes were assigned a credit rating of BBBby S&Ps rating services.
The group entered into a cross currency swap transaction with Lloyds Banking Group and JPMorgan in October 2006.
In exchange for 42.3m the group received $40m from each party which will be nally exchanged on termination of the contract, being October 2016.
Lloyds Banking Group charges interest at US three-month LIBOR plus 2.25%, while JPMorgan charges interest at US three-month LIBOR plus 2.23%.
As part of the agreement, the group receives interest at 7.25% from both parties.
There is an option, exercisable by both parties, to terminate the swaps in October 2011 and annually thereafter until October 2016.
The group also entered into an interest rate swap transaction with Lloyds Banking Group and JPMorgan in October 2006.
Under this agreement, the xed interest rate of 7.25% on the balance of 107.7m 53.8m from each party is exchanged for oating interest rate of UK LIBOR plus 2.24% with Lloyds Banking Group and UK LIBOR plus 2.23% with JPMorgan.
This agreement terminates on 17 October 2016 with an optional early termination in October 2011 and annually thereafter, exercisable by both parties.
In addition to these borrowings we operate a 100m syndicated short-term banking facility, managed through Lloyds Banking Group.
5IF GBDJMJUZ XBT TVDDFTTGVMMZ SFOFHPUJBUFE GPS UISFF ZFBST JO VMZ JG GVOET BSF ESBXO UIF DIBSHF JT BCPWF 6, - #03 MFUUFST of credit raised against the facility are charged at 1.25%.
At the end of 2008, no drawings had been made against this facility.
Beazley Annual Report 2008 103 Notes to the financial statements continued 25 Derivative financial instruments The group uses fair value interest rate hedges and net investment hedges to manage some of its exposures.
The group entered into derivative financial instruments to manage this risk.
2008 2007 m m Fair value Interest rate swap 16.7 0.4 Cross currency swap 14.0 1.6 2.7 1.2 a Fair value hedges As described in note 24, the group has hedged its xed rate borrowing using xed-to-oating interest rate swaps.
In 2008, the hedge was effective and therefore the group did not recognise any gain or loss in the income statement in respect of the hedge.
b Hedge of net investment in foreign entity The groups US dollar denominated borrowing is designated as a hedge of the net investment in the groups US subsidiaries.
The foreign exchange loss of 14.0m on translation of the borrowing to sterling at the balance sheet date was recognised in foreign currency translation reserve.
This offsets the gain or loss on translation of the net investment in the groups US based subsidiaries.
26 Other payables 2008 2007 Group Company Group Company m m m m Reinsurance premiums payable 54.8 59.3 Accrued expenses including staff bonuses 30.4 34.2 Other payables 11.9 6.8 0.8 Amounts due to subsidiaries 122.5 39.0 Deferred consideration payable on acquisition of MGAs 8.5 2.0 Due to syndicate 623 and associates 10.1 4.3 115.7 122.5 106.6 39.8 All other payables are payable within one year of the balance sheet date other than deferred consideration which is payable after one year.
27 Retirement benefit obligations 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 m m m m m Retirement benefit obligations 0.9 1.9 2.9 3.9 Beazley Furlonge Limited operates a funded pension scheme the Beazley Furlonge Limited Pension Scheme providing benets based on final pensionable pay, with contributions being charged to the income statement so as to spread the cost of pensions over employees working lives with the company.
The contributions are determined by a qualied actuary using the projected unit method and the most recent valuation was at 31 December 2008.
com 27 Retirement benefit obligations continued Pension benets Amount recognised in the balance sheet 2008 2007 m m Present value of funded obligations 10.3 17.5 Fair value of plan assets 10.0 15.5 0.3 2.0 Unrecognised actuarial losses 0.3 1.1 Liability in the balance sheet 0.9 Amounts recognised in the income statement Current service cost Interest cost 1.0 0.8 Expected return on plan assets 0.9 0.9 0.1 0.1 Movement in present value of funded obligations recognised in the balance sheet Balance at 1 January 17.5 16.0 Current service cost Interest cost 1.0 0.8 Actuarial losses gains 8.2 0.7 Balance at 31 December 10.3 17.5 Movement in fair value of plan assets recognised in the balance sheet Balance at 1 January 15.5 13.3 Expected return on plan assets 0.9 0.9 Actuarial losses 3.0 0.4 Employer contributions 0.9 1.7 Balance at 31 December 14.3 15.5 2008 2007 m m Plan assets are comprised as follows: Equities 6.9 12.5 Bonds 3.1 3.0 Total 10.0 15.5 The actual loss on plan assets was 2.2m 2007: 0.4m return.
Principal actuarial assumptions Discount rate 6.2% 5.5% Ination rate 2.7% 3.4% Expected return on plan assets 5.3% 6.2% Future salary increases 5.5% 6.2% Future pensions increases 2.3% 3.0% Life expectancy 84 years 84 years Beazley Annual Report 2008 105 Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Deferred income tax 2008 2007 m m Deferred income tax asset 6.8 4.5 Deferred income tax liability 37.1 34.0 30.3 29.5 The movement in the net deferred income tax is as follows: Balance at 1 January 29.5 8.1 Income tax charge 2.8 21.4 Foreign exchange translation differences 2.0 Balance at 31 December 30.3 29.5 Balance Recognised Recognised Balance 1 Jan 08 in income in equity 31 Dec 08 m m m m Plant and equipment 0.3 0.4 0.1 Intangible assets 0.7 0.4 0.3 Other receivables 0.2 0.1 0.1 Share options 2.3 2.3 Syndicate profits 34.1 5.0 39.1 Retirement benefit obligations 0.3 0.3 Tax losses 4.5 0.3 2.0 6.8 Net deferred income tax account 29.5 2.8 2.0 30.3 Balance Recognised Balance 1 Jan 07 in income 31 Dec 07 m m m Plant and equipment 1.2 0.9 0.3 Intangible assets 0.7 0.7 Other receivables 0.1 0.3 0.2 Trade and other payables 2.2 2.2 Syndicate profits 14.8 19.3 34.1 Retirement benefit obligations 0.6 0.3 0.3 Tax losses 3.5 1.0 4.5 Net deferred income tax account 8.1 21.4 29.5 The group has recognised deferred tax assets on unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which unused tax losses can be utilised, as supported by financial projections.
29 Operating lease commitments The group leases land and buildings under a non-cancellable operating lease agreement.
The future minimum lease payments under the non-cancellable operating lease are as follows: 2008 2007 m m No later than 1 year 2.5 1.3 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 9.5 6.6 Later than 5 years 3.0 5.8 15.0 13.7 106 www.
com 30 Related party transactions The group and company have related party relationships with syndicate 623, its subsidiaries, associates and its directors.
30.1 Syndicate 623 Beazley Furlonge Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the group, received management fees and profit commissions for providing a range of management services to syndicate 623 in which the corporate member subsidiaries participated.
The value of the services provided and the balances with the syndicate are as follows: 2008 2007 m m Services provided: Syndicate 623 13.6 13.2 Balances due: Due to syndicate 623 10.1 1.9 30.2 Key management compensation 2008 2007 m m Salaries and other short-term benets 6.5 9.2 Post employment benets 0.3 0.9 Share-based remuneration 2.3 1.5 9.1 11.6 Key management include executives and non-executive directors and other senior management.
Further details of directors shareholdings and remuneration can be found in the directors remuneration report on pages 54 to 63.
30.3 Other related party transactions At 31 December 2008, the group did not have any balances payable to associates 2007: 2.5m.
All transactions with associates and subsidiaries are priced on an arms length basis.
Beazley Annual Report 2008 107 Notes to the financial statements continued 31 Parent company and subsidiary undertakings Beazley Group plc is the ultimate parent and the ultimate controlling party within the group.
The following is a list of all the subsidiaries: Country of Ownership incorporation interest Nature of business Beazley Furlonge Holdings Limited England 100% Intermediate holding company Beazley Furlonge Limited England 100% Lloyds underwriting agents BFHH Limited England 100% Dormant Beazley Investments Limited England 100% Investment company Beazley Corporate Member Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds Beazley Dedicated No.
2 Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds Global Two Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds Beazley Underwriting Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds Beazley Management Limited England 100% Intermediate management company Beazley Staff Underwriting Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds Beazley Solutions Limited England 100% Insurance services Beazley Corporate Member No.
2 England 100% Dormant Beazley Corporate Member No.
3 England 100% Dormant Deltaland Limited England 100% Dormant Beazley Finance Limited England 100% Intermediate holding company Beazley Dedicated Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds Beazley Capital Management Limited England 100% Investment services Beazley Underwriting Services Limited England 100% Insurance services Beazley Underwriting Pty Limited Australia 100% Insurance services Beazley USA Services, Inc. USA 100% Insurance services Beazley Holdings, Inc. USA 100% Holding company Beazley Group USA General Partnership USA 100% General partnership Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. USA 100% Underwrite admitted lines Beazley Limited Hong Kong 100% Insurance services Tasman Corporate Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds Beazley Pte.
Limited Singapore 100% Underwriting at Lloyds 32 Contingencies 32.1 Funds at Lloyds The following amounts are subject to a deed of charge in favour of Lloyds to secure underwriting commitments: 2008 2007 m m Company Debt securities and other xed income securities 360.8 306.2 360.8 306.2 32.2 Financial guarantee The parent company has provided a financial guarantee in favour of its subsidiary Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. which unconditionally guarantees the payment of amounts due to third party reinsurers in the event of the inability of the subsidiary company to meet its obligations.
33 Foreign exchange rates The group used the following exchange rates to translate foreign currency assets, liabilities, income and expenses into the groups presentation currency: 2008 2007 Average Year end spot Average Year end spot US dollar 1.85 1.44 2.00 1.99 Canadian dollar 1.96 1.77 2.15 1.96 Euro 1.26 1.03 1.46 1.36 108 www.
com 34 Acquisition of subsidiaries 34.1 Momentum Underwriting Management Limited On 4 November 2008, the group acquired all the shares in Momentum Underwriting Management Ltd MUML for initial consideration of $15.0m and 2.3m in cash.
Further consideration up to a maximum of $22.5m is payable in the future subject to certain performance criteria being achieved.
The wholly owned subsidiary of MUML, Momentum Underwriting Management Australia Limited MUMAL, was acquired as part of the transaction.
MUML and MUMAL were subsequently renamed as Beazley Underwriting Services Ltd and Beazley Underwriting Pty Ltd respectively.
The acquisition had the following effect on the groups assets and liabilities: Fair value of net assets on acquisition m Fixed assets 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents 1.5 Other receivables 2.3 Other payables 1.6 Intangible assets goodwill 17.9 Consideration paid 20.2 The consideration paid of 20.2m represents amounts paid at the time of the transaction and an estimate of the most probable amount that is expected to be paid in respect of contingent consideration.
Contingent consideration arises subject to the acquired business meeting specic performance criteria over a five-year period from the transaction date.
34.2 Beazley Finance Limited On 12 December 2008, Beazley Furlonge Holdings Limited BFHL purchased the remaining share capital that it did not already own in Beazley Finance Limited.
Following the transaction on 12 December 2008, BFHL owned 22,000,000 ordinary shares in Beazley Finance Limited being 100% of its share capital.
Beazley Finance Limited and Beazley Dedicated Limited have ceased active trading and it is anticipated that they will become dormant.
35 Events after the balance sheet date The following events that are material to the operations of the group have been announced since the balance sheet date and are all subject to shareholder approval.
These events are non-adjusting events in that they have not been reected in the financial statements of the group for the year ended 31 December 2008.
35.1 Capital raising The group has announced its proposal to raise 150m net of expenses through a rights issue and placing.
35.2 Acquisition of business portfolio The group has announced its intention to purchase First State Management Group Inc. a US domiciled underwriting manager, for total consideration of $35.4m.
