Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the fifteenth Annual General To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions Meeting of BlackRock World Mining Trust plc will be held at as special resolutions: the offices of BlackRock Investment Management UK Special resolutions Limited, 33 King William Street, London EC4R 9AS on Thursday, 23 April 2009 at 11.30 a. m. to transact the 9.
That, subject to the passing of Resolution 8 above, and in following business: substitution for the equivalent authority granted at the Annual General Meeting held on 10 April 2008, the Ordinary business Directors of the Company be and are hereby empowered 1.
To receive the report of the Directors and the financial pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the statements for the year ended 31 December 2008, Act to allot equity securities as defined in section 94 of together with the report of the auditors thereon.
the Act of the Company for cash, pursuant to the authority referred to above and to sell equity securities 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the within the meaning of section 94 of the Act which are year ended 31 December 2008. held by the Company in treasury as defined in Section 3.
To declare a final dividend of 5.50p per ordinary share.
162A 3 of the Act, as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotments and sales, provided that this 4.
To re-elect Mr A W Lea as a Director.
power shall be limited to the allotment and sale of equity 5.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors to the securities: Company.
a in connection with an offer of such securities by way of 6.
To authorise the Directors to determine the auditors rights, open offer or other offer of securities, to remuneration.
holders of ordinary shares in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their respective holdings of Special business such shares, but subject to such exclusions or other To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary as ordinary resolutions: or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems under the laws of any Ordinary resolutions territory, or the requirements of any recognised 7.
That the Company shall continue in being as an regulatory body or stock exchange, or any other investment trust.
That the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby b otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above generally and unconditionally authorised for the up to an aggregate nominal amount of 482,526 purposes of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the representing 5% of the aggregate nominal amount of Act, in substitution for and to the exclusion of any the issued share capital : outstanding authority previously conferred on the c at a price of not less than the then prevailing net asset Directors under section 80 of the Act, to allot relevant value per share: securities as defined in section 80 2 of the Act of the Company up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of and such power shall expire on 22 October 2010 482,526 being 5% of the issued share capital at the date except that the Company may before such expiry of this notice provided this authority shall expire on make offers or agreements which would or might 22 April 2014 but so that the Company may, before such require equity securities to be allotted or sold after expiry, make any offer or agreement which would or such expiry and notwithstanding such expiry the might require relevant securities to be allotted pursuant Directors may allot or sell equity securities in to any such offer or agreement as if the authority hereby pursuance of such offers or agreements.
That, in substitution for the Companys existing authority to make market purchases of ordinary shares of 5p in the Company Shares, the Company be and it is hereby 62 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc authorised in accordance with section 166 of the All Shares purchased pursuant to the above authority Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market shall be either: purchases of Shares within the meaning of section 163 of a cancelled immediately on completion of the the Act provided that: purchase: or a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to b held, sold, transferred or otherwise dealt with as be purchased is 28,932,278: treasury shares in accordance with the provisions of b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may the Act.
be paid for a Share shall be 5p, being the nominal 11.
That the regulations contained in the printed document value per Share: produced to the meeting and marked A and for the c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may purposes of identification initialled by the Chairman of be paid for a Share shall be the higher of 5% above the the meeting be hereby approved and adopted as the average of the market values of the Shares for the five Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, business days immediately preceding the date of the and to the exclusion of all, existing Articles of Association.
purchase, the price of the last independent trade and the highest current bid on the trading venues where By order of the Board the purchase is carried out: and BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited Secretary d unless renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall 11 February 2009 expire on 22 October 2010 save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to Registered Office: purchase Shares which will or may be completed or 33 King William Street executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
London EC4R 9AS Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2008 63 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes: 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is also entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of him her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Forms of proxy must reach the office of the Companys registrar by 11.30 a. m. on 21 April 2009.
A form of proxy is provided to shareholders with the annual report.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
Proxy votes can be submitted electronically at www.
com by entering the control number and by using the PIN and SRN numbers printed on the form of proxy or sent to you by email.
The latest time for the submission of proxy votes electronically is 11.30 a. m. on 21 April 2009.
If you are a CREST system user including a CREST personal member you can appoint one or more proxies or give an instruction to a proxy by having an appropriate CREST message transmitted.
To appoint one or more proxies or to give an instruction to a proxy whether previously appointed or otherwise via the CREST system, the CREST message must be received by Computershare ID number 3RA50 not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp generated by the CREST system from which Computershare is able to retrieve the message.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members should contact their CREST sponsor for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and system timings please refer to the CREST manual.
The Company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at 6.00 p. m. on 21 April 2009 the specified time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the time applicable to the original meeting, the specified time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If, however, the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified in that notice.
In accordance with Section 325 of the Companies Act 2006 2006 Act the right to appoint proxies does not apply to persons nominated to receive information rights under Section 146 of the 2006 Act.
Persons nominated to receive information rights under Section 146 of the 2006 Act who have been sent this Notice of Meeting are hereby informed, in accordance with Section 149 2 of the 2006 Act, that they may have the right under an agreement with the registered member by whom they were nominated to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for this meeting.
If they have no such right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Nominated persons should contact the registered member by whom they were nominated in respect of these arrangements.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is given discretion as to how the votes subject of those proxies are cast and the voting rights in respect of those discretionary proxies, when added to the interest in the Companys securities already held by the Chairman, result in the Chairman holding such number of voting rights that he has a notifiable obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary notifications to the Company and the Financial Services Authority.
As a result, any member holding 3 per cent.
or more of the voting rights in the Company who grants the Chairman a discretionary proxy in respect of some or all of those voting rights and so would otherwise have a notification obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, need not make a separate notification to the Company and the Financial Services Authority.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
No service contracts exist between the Company and any of the Directors, who hold office in accordance with letters of appointment and the Articles of Association.
This notice is sent for information only to warrantholders who are not entitled to attend or vote at meetings of shareholders.
As at 11 February 2009 being the last business day prior to the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital comprised 177,760,929 ordinary shares of 5 pence each, excluding shares held in treasury.
Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote and therefore the total number of voting rights in the Company on 11 February 2009 is 177,760,929.
64 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
