Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report The Directors also confirm to the best of their knowledge and and the financial statements in accordance with applicable belief that: United Kingdom law and those International Financial the financial statements, prepared in accordance with Standards [IFRS] as adopted by the European Union.
applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or statements for each financial year.
Under that law they have loss of the Company: and prepared the financial statements in accordance with the annual report includes a fair view of the development applicable laws and IFRS.
and performance of the business and the position of the The Directors are required to ensure that the financial Company, together with a description of the principal statements give a true and fair view of the affairs of the risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
Company and of the Group at the end of each financial year By order of the Board and of the profit or loss of the Company and the Group for A W Lea that period.
11 February 2009 In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance: and state that the Company has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors confirm that the accounts comply with the above requirements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulation, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
30 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
