Shareholder Information Investor Services PLC on 0870 707 1187.
Shareholders who Financial calendar have already opted for dividend reinvestment do not need to The timing of the announcement and publication of the reapply.
The last date for registering for this service for the Companys results may normally be expected in the months forthcoming dividend is 7 April 2009. shown below: Share price February The Companys mid-market ordinary share price is quoted Annual results and final dividend for year announced.
daily in The Financial Times under Investment Companies Annual report and financial statements published.
and in The Daily Telegraph and The Times under Investment Trusts.
The share price is also available on the BlackRock April Investment Management UK Limited BlackRock website Annual General Meeting.
ISIN SEDOL numbers The ISIN SEDOL numbers and mnemonic codes for the August Companys shares are: Half yearly figures announced and half yearly financial report published.
Ordinary Shares ISIN GB0005774855 Dividend 2008 SEDOL 0577485 The proposed final dividend in respect of the year ended Reuters code BRWM.
Bloomberg code BRWM LN Ex-dividend date shares transferred without the dividend 18 February 2009 Share dealing Record date Investors wishing to purchase more shares in the Company last date for registering transfers to or sell all or part of their existing holding may do so through receive the dividend 20 February 2009 a stockbroker.
Most banks also offer this service.
Last date for registering DRIP instructions 7 April 2009 Dividend payment date 30 April 2009 For existing shareholders, the Companys registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, has both internet and telephone share dealing services.
The telephone Payment of dividends share dealing service is available on 0870 703 0084.
Cash dividends will be sent by cheque to the first-named To access the internet share dealing log on to shareholder at their registered address.
To use these services, be paid direct into a shareholders bank account via you will need your shareholder reference number, which is BACSTEL-IP Bankers Automated Clearing Service detailed on your share certificate.
This may be arranged by contacting the Companys registrar, Computershare Investor CREST Services PLC on 0870 707 1187 or by completing the Mandate The Companys shares have joined CREST, an electronic Instructions section on the reverse of your dividend system for uncertificated securities trading.
counterfoil and sending this to the Companys registrar, Computershare.
Tax vouchers will be sent to shareholders at Private investors can continue to retain their share their registered address, unless other instructions have been certificates and remain outside the CREST system.
Private given, to arrive on the payment date.
investors are able to buy and sell their holdings in the same way as they did prior to the introduction of CREST, although Dividend reinvestment scheme DRIP there may be differences in dealing charges.
Shareholders may request that their dividends be used to purchase further shares in the Company.
Dividend reinvestment forms may be obtained from Computershare Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2008 59 Shareholder Information continued mineral production potentially leading to price Electronic communications reductions.
Computershare provides a service to enable shareholders to receive correspondence electronically including annual and There may be exposure to significant currency, political half yearly financial reports if they wish.
If a shareholder and nationalisation risks due to the location of the opts to receive documents in this way, paper documents will operation of companies in which the Company may only be available on request unless electronic submission invest.
fails, in which case a hard copy will be mailed to the Shares of companies in the mining sector can prove investors last known address.
volatile and this may be reflected in the Companys share Shareholders who opt for this service would receive a Notice price.
of Availability via e-mail from Computershare with a link to Any investment in the Company will involve an above the relevant section of the BlackRock website where the average risk and is suitable only for financially documents can be viewed and printed.
For more information, to view the terms and conditions and Past performance is not necessarily a guide to future to register for this service, please visit Computershares performance.
The value of your investment in the internet site at www-uk.
com investor you Company and the income from it can fluctuate as the will need your shareholder reference number, which is given value of the underlying investments fluctuate.
on your share certificate or tax voucher.
Duration of the Company Electronic proxy voting Shareholders are given an opportunity at each Annual Shareholders are able to submit their proxy votes General Meeting to vote on an ordinary resolution to continue electronically via Computershares internet site at the life of the Company for a further twelve months.
com by entering the control number and a unique identification PIN and SRN which will Nominee Code be provided with voting instructions and the Notice of Annual Where shares are held in a nominee company name, the General Meeting.
Company undertakes: CREST members who wish to appoint one or more proxies or to provide the nominee company with multiple copies of give an instruction through the CREST electronic proxy shareholder communications, so long as an indication of appointment service may do so by using the procedures quantities has been provided in advance: described in the CREST manual.
More details are set out in the notes on the form of proxy and the Notice of Annual to allow investors holding shares through a nominee General Meeting.
company to attend general meetings, provided the correct authority from the nominee company is available: Risk Factors and As the Company invests worldwide, the value of its shares that investors in the BlackRock Investment Trusts is also affected by changes in rates of exchange.
Savings Plan and ISA are automatically sent shareholder The price at which the Companys shares trade on the communications, including details of general meetings, London Stock Exchange is not the same as their net asset together with a form of direction to facilitate voting and to value although they are related and therefore you may seek authority to attend.
realise returns which are lower or higher than NAV Nominee companies are encouraged to provide the performance.
necessary authority to underlying shareholders to attend the A lack of growth in world industrial production may Companys general meetings.
Deteriorating economic conditions in certain countries may lead to aggressive exporting of their metal and 60 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc Publication of net asset value portfolio analysis Shareholder enquiries The net asset value NAV per share of the Company is The Companys registrar is Computershare Investor Services calculated daily, with details of the Companys investments PLC.
In the event of queries regarding your holding of shares, and performance being published monthly.
please contact the registrar on 0870 707 1187.
Changes of name or address must be notified in writing to the registrar at: The daily NAV per share and monthly information are released through the London Stock Exchanges Regulatory Computershare Investor Services PLC News Service and are available on the BlackRock website at The Pavilions www.
co. uk its and through the Reuters News Bridgwater Road Service under the code BLRKINDEX, on page 8800 on Topic Bristol BS99 6ZZ 3 ICV terminals and under BLRK on Bloomberg monthly Certain details relating to your holding can also be checked information only.
through the Computershare investor centre website.
As a security check, specific information needs to be input Internet accurately to gain access to an individuals account.
This Other details about the Company are also available on includes your shareholder reference number, available the BlackRock website at www.
co. uk its from either your share certificate or tax voucher.
and shareholders can check details of their The address of the Computershare website is wwwholdings on Computershares website at uk.
The financial statements and other literature are published General enquiries on the BlackRock website.
Visitors to the website need to be Enquiries about the Company should be directed to: aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the The Secretary preparation and dissemination of the financial statements BlackRock World Mining Trust plc may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
33 King William Street London EC4R 9AS Savings Plan Telephone: 0800 44 55 22 The Company participates in the BlackRock Investment Trusts Savings Plan, which facilitates both regular monthly Enquiries about the Savings Plan and ISA should be investments and occasional lump sum investments in the directed to: Companys ordinary shares.
Shareholders who would like Freepost RLTZ-KHUH-KZSB information on the Savings Plan should call BlackRock free BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited on 0800 44 55 22.
PO Box 9036 Chelmsford CM99 2XD Stocks and Individual Savings Accounts ISA Telephone: 0800 44 55 22 ISAs are a tax-efficient method of investment and the Companys shares are eligible investments within the BlackRock Investment Trust stocks and shares Individual Savings Account.
Investors have an annual ISA allowance of 7,200 and details are available from BlackRock by calling free on 0800 44 55 22.
Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2008 61
