Notes to the Financial Statements continued 19.
Risk Management policies and procedures continued vii Capital Management policies and procedures The Companys capital management objectives are: to ensure it will be able to continue as a going concern: and to achieve an annual dividend target and, over the longer term, capital growth investing primarily in securities of companies in the mining and metals sectors.
This is to be achieved through an appropriate balance of equity capital and gearing.
The Company operates a flexible gearing policy which depends on prevailing conditions.
The policy is that debt should not be more than 15% of the Groups net assets.
Related party disclosure The related party transaction with BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited is set out in the Directors Report on page 19.
The investment management fee for the year was 13,762,000 2007: 14,371,000 and the secretarial and administration fee for the year was 484,000 2007:676,000.
From 13 August 2008, the administration fee was combined within the management fee.
At the year end, the following amounts were outstanding in respect of investment management fees:1,899,000 2007: 3,958,000.
Contingent assets As reported last December, the Board welcomed the success of the AIC and JPMorgan Claverhouse Investment Trust plc following their lengthy test case against HM Revenue & Customs HMRC challenging the imposition of VAT on management services supplied to investment trusts.
HMRC has now accepted the European Court of Justices judgement on 28 June 2007 that management services supplied to investment trusts should be exempt from VAT.
Total irrecoverable VAT incurred by the Company on management fees is estimated at 3 million.
The Investment Manager has submitted claims to recover from HMRC any amounts repayable as a result of the AIC and JPMorgan Claverhouse case and will pay these across as soon as any repayment is received from HMRC.
At present the Board is in negotiations with the Manager over the exact basis of any repayments due.
Given the volume of claims HMRC has to process, we expect any refunds to be received in the next financial year.
As there is uncertainty over the timing of receipt of any funds from HMRC, and the exact basis of any repayment is still to be determined, it is not considered appropriate to recognise a contingent asset in respect of any amounts recoverable at this stage.
The amounts involved are not expected to have a significant impact on your Companys NAV.
Contingent liabilities There were no contingent liabilities at 31 December 2008 31 December 2007: nil except derivatives as disclosed in note 19 above.
56 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
