Appendix to Notice of Annual General Meeting are being amended to conform to the new provisions in the Explanatory note of principal changes to BlackRock 2006 Act.
In particular, a general meeting to consider a World Mining Trust plcs Articles of Association special resolution other than a general meeting at which the It is proposed in resolution 11 that new articles of association appointment of a director is to be considered can now be be adopted with effect from the conclusion of the next Annual convened on 14 days notice whereas previously 21 days General Meeting the New Articles.
These are intended to notice was required.
replace the Companys current articles of association the existing Articles.
The main reason for the adoption of the Quorum requirements New Articles is to take account of changes in UK company The existing Articles provide that two members present in law brought about by the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 person or by proxy and entitled to attend and vote shall be a Act.
The 2006 Act, which is replacing the Companies Act quorum.
The 2006 Act provides in general terms that the 1985 the 1985 Act, is being implemented in stages and quorum for a general meeting be calculated by reference to will not be fully in force until 1 October 2009.
The New the numbers of qualifying persons who are present at the Articles will come into effect immediately following the meeting.
The term qualifying persons includes an Annual General Meeting and will reflect those changes in individual who is a member of the Company, a person company law brought about by the 2006 Act which are in authorised to act as the representative of a corporation and force at that time.
a person appointed as proxy of a member.
The New Articles Due to the extent of the changes, it is proposed that the New override the provisions of the 2006 Act as is permitted so Articles be adopted in their entirety, rather than individual that two persons who are proxies for the same member can amendments being made to the existing Articles.
The principal changes being proposed in the New Articles Votes of members are summarised below.
Other changes, which are of a minor, Under the 2006 Act, proxies are entitled to vote on a show of technical or clarifying nature have not been noted.
A clean hands, whereas under the existing Articles proxies are only copy of the New Articles and a copy marked up to show entitled to vote on a poll.
Multiple proxies may be appointed changes from the existing Articles are available for provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights inspection at the Companys registered office.
attached to a different share or shares held by the shareholder and multiple corporate representatives may be Form of resolution appointed although if they purport to exercise their rights in The existing Articles provide for both special and different ways, then the power is treated as not being extraordinary resolutions.
The New Articles reflect these new provisions.
resolutions are not included in the New Articles as the concept of extraordinary resolutions has not been retained Proxies under the 2006 Act.
The time limits for the appointment or termination of proxies have been altered by the 2006 Act so that weekends and bank Variation of class rights holidays can be excluded for the purposes of the timing The provisions have been amended in the New Articles to requirements for delivery of proxies.
The New Articles reflect reflect the fact that a special resolution not an extraordinary this change.
resolution will be required to vary any class rights.
Transfer of shares Extraordinary and annual general meetings Under the 2006 Act, a company must either register a The existing Articles contain provisions referring to transfer of shares or give the transferee notice of, and extraordinary general meetings.
This concept has been reasons for, its refusal to register a transfer.
Any registration abolished under the 2006 Act and meetings of shareholders of transfer or notice must be made or given as soon as other than annual general meetings are referred to simply as practicable and in any event at the earlier of either the time general meetings.
In addition, the provisions in the existing required by the rules of the London Stock Exchange or within Articles dealing with the convening of general meetings and the length of notice required to convene a general meeting Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2008 65 Appendix to Notice of Annual General Meeting continued two months from the date that the transfer is lodged with the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will Company.
The New Articles reflect these requirements.
be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when Age of directors giving authorisation if they think that this is appropriate.
The existing Articles contain a provision limiting the age at It is also proposed that the New Articles should contain which a director can continue to be a director or be provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at appointed.
Such provision could now fall foul of the Board meetings and availability of Board papers to protect a Employment Equality Age Regulations 2006 and so has director being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or been removed from the New Articles.
potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict Notice of Board meetings has previously been authorised by the directors.
It is the Under the existing Articles, when a director is abroad he can Boards intention to report annually on the Companys request that notice of directors meetings are sent to him at procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers to authorise a specified address, and if he does not do so he is not entitled conflicts are operated effectively.
to receive notice while he is away.
In line with the 2006 Act, this provision has been amended, as modern Right to inspect accounts communications mean that there may be no particular The provision in the existing Articles requiring the Board to obstacle to giving notice to a director who is abroad.
It has keep accounting records has been removed as this been replaced with a more general provision that a director requirement is contained in the 2006 Act and it was felt that is treated as having waived his entitlement to notice unless it was not necessary to duplicate this in the New Articles.
he supplies the Company with the information necessary to ensure that he receives notice of a meeting before it takes Electronic and web communications place.
The 2006 Act enables companies to communicate with their members by electronic communication to a greater extent Conflicts of interest than previously permitted and the New Articles would allow The 2006 Act sets out directors general duties.
The the Company to take advantage of the new provisions provisions largely codify the previously existing law, but with relating to website communications.
Before the Company some changes.
Under the 2006 Act, a director must avoid a can communicate with a member by means of website situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect communication, the relevant member must be asked interest which conflicts or possibly may conflict with the individually by the Company to agree that the Company may Companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and send or supply documents or information to him by means of could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of website communication, and the Company must either have another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The received a positive response or have received no response 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise within the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, where the request was sent.
The Company will notify the member the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
either in writing, or by other permitted means when a The 2006 Act also allows the articles of association to contain relevant document or information is placed on the website other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of and a member can always request a hard copy version of the interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The New Articles give the document or information.
Members can also revoke their directors authority to approve such situations and to include consent to receive electronic communications at any time.
other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with Provisions to this effect are included in the New Articles.
in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards in the New Articles which will apply Distribution of assets otherwise than in cash when directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or The existing Articles contain provisions dealing with the potential conflict.
Firstly, only directors who have no interest distribution of assets in kind in the event of the Company in the matter being considered will be able to make the going into liquidation.
These provisions have been removed in relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the 66 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc the New Articles on the grounds that they simply reflect current insolvency law section 107 Insolvency Act 1986.
Execution of deeds The 2006 Act now permits deeds to be executed on behalf of a company by one director in the presence of a witness.
The New Articles reflect this.
Directors indemnities and loans to fund expenditure A company now has wider powers to indemnify directors and to fund expenditure incurred in connection with certain actions against directors.
In addition, the existing exemption allowing a company to provide money for the purpose of a directors defence in court proceedings now expressly covers regulatory proceedings and applies to associated companies.
The New Articles deal with these new provisions and give the Company power to indemnify directors subject to statute.
Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2008 67
