BlueBay Asset Management plc Directors Responsibility 54 Annual Report 2008 Statement The following statement, which should be Disclosure of information to auditors and businesses of the Group.
These read in conjunction with the report of the Each Director has responsibility for ensuring statements and forecasts involve risk and independent auditors, is made with a view to that, as far as he is aware, there is no relevant uncertainty because they relate to events and distinguishing for shareholders the respective audit information of which the auditors are depend on circumstances that may occur in responsibilities of the Directors and the unaware, and that he has taken all the steps the future.
There are a number of factors that auditors in relation to the Annual Report and that he ought to have taken to make himself could cause actual results or developments the Financial Statements contained therein.
aware of any relevant audit information that to differ materially from those expressed or is, relevant to the preparation of the auditors implied by these forwardlooking statements The Directors are responsible for preparing reports and to establish that the Groups and forecasts.
Forward-looking statements the Annual Report and ensuring it gives a auditors are aware of that information.
and forecasts are based on the Directors true and fair view of the state of affairs of This confirmation is given and should be current view and information known to them the Group and Company at the end of the interpreted in accordance with the provisions at the date of this report.
The Directors do financial year and of the results of the year in of section 234ZA of the Companies not make any undertaking to update or revise accordance with applicable UK laws, United Act 1985. any forward looking statements, whether as Kingdom Accounting Standards and those a result of new information, future events or International Financial Reporting Standards Other disclosures otherwise.
Nothing in this document should adopted by the EU.
The Directors have Pages 30 to 32 inclusive contain the Directors be construed as a profit forecast.
responsibility for ensuring that proper Report and pages 40 to 47 inclusive contain accounting records are kept that disclose with the Remuneration Report, both of which have The Financial Statements for the year ended reasonable accuracy at any time the financial been drawn up and presented in accordance 30 June 2008 are included in the Annual position of the Group and Company, and with and in reliance upon applicable English Report 2008, which is published in hard which enable them to ensure the Financial Company Law, and the liabilities of the copy form and made available on the Groups Statements comply with the Companies Act Directors in connection with those reports website.
The Directors are responsible for 1985.
They are also responsible for taking shall be subject to the limitations and the maintenance and integrity of the Annual reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of restrictions provided by such law.
Report on the Groups website in accordance the Group and Company and to prevent and with UK legislation governing the preparation detect fraud and other irregularities.
The statement from the Chairman and the and dissemination of Financial Statements.
Chief Executive on page 7 and 8 to 10 It should be noted that information published The Directors remain satisfied that the respectively and the Business Review on on the Internet is accessible in many Group and Company have adequate pages 13 to 26, which form part of the countries, some of which have different resources to continue in business and, Directors Report, contain certain forwardlegal requirements relating to the preparation accordingly, that the Financial Statements looking statements with respect to the and dissemination of Financial Statements.
should be drawn up on a going concern financial condition, and results of, operations The work carried out by the auditors does basis.
Further, appropriate accounting policies not involve consideration of these matters consistently applied and supported by and, accordingly, the auditors accept no reasonable and prudent judgements and responsibility for any changes that have estimates have been used in the preparation occurred to the Financial Statements since of these Financial Statements and applicable they were initially presented on the website.
accounting standards have been followed.
These policies and standards, for which the By order of the Board Directors accept responsibility, have been discussed with the auditors.
The Directors, having prepared the Financial Statements, James Brace have requested the auditors to take whatever Company Secretary steps and to undertake whatever inspections they consider appropriate for the purpose of 18 September 2008 giving their report.
