"NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING NOTICE OF THE GENERAL MEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the General Meeting ""GM"" of the voting members of BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company will be held at Anson Place, Mill Court, La Charroterie, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 1EJ on Friday 19 June 2009 at 11.00 a. m. to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of the Company: Ordinary Business: to be proposed as ordinary resolutions 1."
To receive the Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 December 2008.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors to the Company, to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next General Meeting to be held in 2010 under section 199 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended the Law, and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
To re-elect Mr Richard Crowder as a director.
To re-elect Mr Paul Meader as a director.
Special Business: to be proposed as an ordinary resolution 5. to resolve as an ordinary resolution that the Company be authorised, in accordance with section 315 1 a of the Law, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 316 of the Law of ordinary shares of no par value each, whether denominated in Sterling, Euros or US Dollars Shares, and to cancel such Shares or hold such Shares as treasury shares, provided that: i the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99 per cent.
of each class of Shares in issue on the date on which this resolution is passed: ii the maximum price which may be paid for a Share shall be the higher of a an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of the middle market quotation for a Share of the relevant class on the relevant market for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Shares are purchased and b the higher of the price of the last independent trade and highest current bid on the London Stock Exchange when the purchase is carried out: iii the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 1 pence, 1 Euro cent or 1 US Dollar cent as the case may be: and 69 NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING continued Special Resolution 5 continued iv unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010, under section 199 of the Law, save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase Shares under such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
Special Business: to be proposed as a special resolution 6. to disapply pre-emption rights granted to Shareholders for a period concluding immediately prior to the General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010 under section 199 of the Law.
Rules for an Adjournment: If the above meeting falls to be adjourned because it is not quorate, it will be adjourned to the same time and place five business days later, whereupon those shareholders then present in person, by their representative or by proxy shall form the quorum.
In the event of any such adjournment the Company will announce the adjournment via a regulatory information service but no notification will be sent directly to shareholders.
Registered Office: By order of the Board Anson Place BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Mill Court La Charroterie St Peter Port Guernsey GY1 1EJ Date:8 May 2009 70 NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING continued Notes Ordinary Resolution: To be passed this type of resolution requires a simple majority of the votes cast by those shareholders voting in person or by proxy at the meeting to be voted in favour of the resolution.
Special Resolution: To be passed, this type of resolution requires that a majority of not less than three-quarters of all the votes cast by those shareholders voting in person or by proxy at the meeting to be cast in favour of the resolution.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to speak and vote instead of them.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not preclude members from attending or voting at the meeting, if they so wish.
More than one proxy may be appointed provided each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares.
To be valid the Form of Proxy, together with the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is executed or a notarially certified copy of such power of authority must be deposited with the Companys agent, for this purpose being, Anson Registrars Limited, Anson Place, Mill Court, La Charroterie, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 1EJ, not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed with this Notice.
All persons recorded on the register of shareholders as holding shares in the Company as at 11.00 a. m. on 17 June 2009 or, if the GM is adjourned, as at 48 hours before the time of any adjourned GM, shall be entitled to attend and vote either in person or by proxy at the GM and shall be entitled to one vote per share held.
Where there are joint registered holders of any shares such persons shall not have the right of voting individually in respect of such shares but shall elect one of their number to represent them and to vote whether in person or by proxy in their name.
In default of such election the person whose name stands first on the register of shareholders shall alone be entitled to vote.
Where there are joint participants in respect of any share such persons shall not have the right of voting individually in respect of such share but shall elect one of their number to represent them and to vote whether in person or by proxy in their name.
In default of such election the participant whose interests are first notified to the Company shall alone be entitled to vote.
On a poll votes may be given either personally or by proxy and a shareholder entitled to more than one vote need not use all his votes or cast all the votes he uses in the same way.
Any corporation which is a shareholder may by resolution of its directors or other governing body authorise such person as it thinks fit to act as its representative at this meeting.
Any person so authorised shall be entitled to exercise on behalf of the corporation which he represents the same powers other than to appoint a proxy as that corporation could exercise if it were an individual shareholder.
None of the Directors has a Contract of Service with the Company.
71 NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING continued Proxy Form FOR USE BY HOLDERS OF SHARES AT THE GENERAL MEETING OF BLUECREST ALLBLUE FUND LIMITED THE COMPANY CONVENED FOR FRIDAY 19 JUNE 2009 AT 11.00 A. M. AT ANSON PLACE, MILL COURT, LA CHARROTERIE, ST PETER PORT, GUERNSEY GY1 1EJ AND AT ANY ADJOURNMENT THEREOF: I We.
"Block Capitals being a shareholder s of the above-named Company hereby appoint the Chairman of the meeting or.. as my our proxy to vote for me us on my our behalf at the General Meeting of the Company the ""GM"" to be held on Friday 19 June 2009 at 11.00 A. M. and at any adjournment thereof."
Note: If it is desired to appoint as proxy any person other than the Chairman of the Meeting, his her name and address should be inserted in the relevant place and reference to the Chairman of the meeting deleted and the alternation initialled.
I WE direct the proxy to vote on the Resolutions as follows: Ordinary Resolutions FOR AGAINST WITHHELD 1.
To receive the audited financial report for the year ended 31 December 2008.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors to the Company, to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next General Meeting to be held in 2010 under section 199 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended, and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
To re-elect Richard Crowder a director.
To re-elect Paul Meader a director.
To resolve as an ordinary resolution that the Company be authorised, in accordance section 315 1 a of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 the 2008 Law, to make market purchases of ordinary shares of no par value each, whether denominated in Sterling, Euros or US Dollars, Shares on the terms set out.
72 NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING continued Proxy Form continued Special Resolution FOR AGAINST WITHHELD 6.
To disapply pre-emption rights granted to Shareholders in respect of an unlimited number of ordinary shares, whether denominated in Sterling, Euros or US Dollars, for a period concluding immediately prior to the General Meeting of the Company in 2010 under section 199 of the Law.
Please indicate with an X in the appropriate space how you wish your vote to be cast.
On receipt of the form duly executed and in the absence of a specific direction, your proxy will vote or abstain as he or she thinks fit on the resolutions.
If the shareholder is a Corporation, this form must be executed under its common seal or under the hand of its duly authorised officer or attorney.
In the case of joint members, the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person, or by proxy, will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.
For this purpose, seniority is determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of shareholders in respect of the joint holding.
Any alterations to this proxy should be initialled by the person who signs it.
