Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the One Hundred and Annual General Meeting of the Company after Eleventh Annual General Meeting of British Assets the passing of this resolution but so that such Trust Public Limited Company will be held at authority shall allow the Company to make 80 George Street, Edinburgh on Thursday offers or agreements before the expiry of such 18 December 2008 at 12 noon for the following authority which would or might require relevant purposes: securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot relevant securities in To consider and, if thought fit, pass the pursuance of such offers or agreements as if following as Ordinary Resolutions: the power conferred hereby had not expired.
That the Report and Accounts for the year To consider and, if thought fit, pass the ended 30 September 2008 be received.
That a final dividend of 1.734 pence per 11.
That the Directors be and are hereby authorised Ordinary Share be declared.
to allot equity securities within the meaning of 3.
That Mr I S M Russell, who retires at the first Section 94 of the Companies Act 1985 the Annual General Meeting following his Act pursuant to the authority conferred by appointment, be re-appointed as a Director.
resolution number 10 proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company convened for 4.
That Mr J S MacLeod, who retires annually, be 18 December 2008, as if Section 89 of the Act re-elected as a Director.
did not apply to any such allotment, provided 5.
That Dr C Masters, who retires annually, be that this power shall be limited to: re-elected as a Director.
a the allotment of equity securities in 6.
That Mr W R E Thomson, who retires annually, connection with a rights issue in favour of be re-elected as a Director.
the holders of equity securities in the Company Shares where the equity 7.
That Mr J G West, who retires annually, be securities respectively attributable to the re-elected as a Director.
interest of all such shareholders are 8.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the proportionate as nearly as may be to the year ended 30 September 2008 be approved.
respective number of Shares held or deemed or notionally held by them but 9.
That Ernst & Young LLP be re-appointed as subject to such exclusions or other Auditors and the Directors be authorised to arrangements as the Directors may think fit determine their remuneration.
in relation to fractional entitlements or to deal 10.
That the Directors be and are hereby generally with problems under the laws, or requirements, of any recognised body or and unconditionally authorised in accordance Stock Exchange in any territory: and with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company b the allotment other than pursuant to to allot relevant securities as defined in paragraph a of this resolution of equity Section 80 2 of the Act up to an aggregate securities up to an aggregate nominal value nominal amount of 7,315,307 in substitution of 3,657,653 5 per cent of the equity share for any existing authority under Section 80 of capital in issue on 14 November 2008 : the Act but without prejudice to any exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, such and shall expire on the date of the next Annual authority to expire on the date of the next General Meeting of the Company after the 54 British Assets Trust plc passing of this resolution, save that the d unless previously varied, revoked or Company may, before such expiry, make any renewed, the authority hereby conferred offer or agreement which would or might require shall expire on the later of 18 June 2010 equity securities to be allotted after such expiry, and the conclusion of the next Annual and the Directors may allot equity securities in General Meeting of the Company, save that pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the the Company may, prior to such expiry, power conferred hereby had not expired.
enter into a contract to purchase Ordinary Shares under such authority and may make 12.
That the Company be generally and a purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant to unconditionally authorised, in accordance with any such contract.
Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to make market purchases within the 13.
That the draft regulations produced to the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of meeting and, for the purposes of identification, ordinary shares of 25p each Ordinary Shares, initialled by the Chairman of the meeting be provided that: adopted as the articles of association of the Company in substitution for, and to the entire a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares exclusion of, the existing articles of association hereby authorised to be purchased shall be of the Company.
14.99 per cent of the issued Ordinary Shares on the date on which this resolution By order of the Board is passed: G R Hay Smith b the minimum price which may be paid for an Secretary Ordinary Share shall be 25p: 80 George Street c the maximum price exclusive of expenses Edinburgh EH2 3BU which may be paid for an Ordinary Share 14 November 2008 shall not be more than the higher of i 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the Daily Official List for the Ordinary Shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and ii the higher of the last independent bid and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange: and Annual Report and Accounts 2008 55 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder Notes attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not 1.
A member entitled to attend, speak and vote at the above appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, representative, a designated corporate representative will be speak and vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, of the Company.
who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives 2.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use at the above meeting.
will give voting directions to that designated corporate Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
To guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and be effective, the form of proxy, duly executed, must be lodged Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives at the address shown on the form of proxy i by 12 noon on www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The 16 December 2008 or, ii in respect of an adjourned meeting, guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the no later than 48 hours before the holding of that adjourned Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
meeting or, in the case of a poll taken subsequent to the date 6.
The members of the Company may require the Company to of the meeting or an adjourned meeting, not less than 24 hours publish, on its website, a statement setting out any matter before the time appointed for the taking of the poll.
relating to the audit of the Companys accounts, including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities will be required to do so once it has received such requests Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that only those from either members representing at least 5 per cent of the holders of Ordinary Shares entered on the Register of Members total voting rights of the Company or at least 100 members of the Company as at 6.00 pm on 16 December 2008 or, in who have a relevant right to vote and hold shares in the the event that the meeting is adjourned, on the Register of Members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, Company on which there has been paid up an average sum shall be entitled to attend, speak or vote at the meeting in per member of at least 100. respect of the number of Ordinary Shares registered in their 7.
A copy of the Articles of Association of the Company as names at that time.
Changes to the entries on the Register of proposed to be adopted with effect from the passing of Members after 6.00 pm on 16 December 2008 or, in the event resolution 13 will be available for inspection at Royal London that the meeting is adjourned, on the Register of Members 48 House, 22-25 Finsbury Square, London EC2A 1DX and at the hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be registered office of the Company from the date of this notice disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend, until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and on the speak or vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any provisions in date of the Annual General Meeting 15 minutes prior to the any enactment, the Articles of Association of the Company or start until the conclusion of the meeting.
other instrument to the contrary.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
Any person holding 3 per cent of the total voting rights in the Directors letters of appointment will be available for 15 minutes Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as prior to, and during the Annual General Meeting.
his proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the 9.
As at 5.00 pm on 14 November 2008 being the latest Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
applicable date prior to the publication of this notice, the Companys issued share capital comprised 292,612,282 5.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the Ordinary Shares of 25p each.
Every Member holding Ordinary meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so Shares shall have one vote for every 4.00 of nominal ordinary that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman share capital held by them and therefore the total number of of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions voting rights in the Company at 5.00 pm on 14 November to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the 2008 was 18,288,267. other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the 10.
Members who have general queries about the Annual General meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will Meeting should not use any electronic address to give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in communicate with the Company but should call the accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one Companys registrars on 0870 601 5366.
