Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting general meetings are referred to simply as general Summary of the Proposed Material meetings.
Any resolution requiring a 75 per cent Changes to the Articles of majority will be a special resolution.
Association of the Company The provisions of the existing Articles dealing with The principal changes which would arise from the the convening of general meetings and annual adoption of the New Articles are set out below.
general meetings and the length of notice required to convene such meetings are amended in the New Electronic and Web Communication Articles to conform with the 2006 Act.
In particular, Provisions of the 2006 Act which came into force in general meetings to consider special resolutions can January 2007 enable companies to communicate now be convened on 14 days notice whereas with members by electronic means and or website previously 21 days notice was required.
The New Articles contain a General Meeting of the Company still requires 21 number of provisions designed to maximise the days notice.
Companys ability to use electronic systems, including websites, for communications with Quorum shareholders.
In the New Articles, the quorum requirement has The New Articles give the Directors the discretion to been reduced from three members to two members use electronic communication to distribute notices of present in person or by proxy and, for the avoidance meetings, annual reports, accounts and summary of doubt, corporate representatives.
Before the Company can communicate with a member by electronic Ordinary Business communication and or by means of website The definition of ordinary business has been communication, the relevant member must be asked extended in the New Articles to include the renewal individually by the Company to agree that the of the share buy-back authority as ordinary business Company may send or supply documents or when it is transacted at an Annual General Meeting information to the member electronically or by of the Company.
means of a website, and the Company must either have received a positive response or have received Votes of Members no response within the period of 28 days beginning The existing Articles provide that on a poll every with the date on which the request was sent.
The member who is present in person or by proxy shall Company will notify the member either in writing, or have one vote for every 4 nominal of ordinary share by other permitted means when documents or capital which he is the holder.
In order to simplify information are placed on the website and a the voting procedure and computations the New member can always request a hard copy of the Articles provide that on a poll every member who is document or information.
The use of electronic present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for communication by the Company will enable the every share of which he is the holder.
Company to reduce costs and generally facilitate communication with shareholders.
Proxies Under the 2006 Act, proxies now have the right to Form of Resolutions and Convening Meetings vote on a show of hands and the New Articles The existing Articles refer to extraordinary reflect this.
resolutions and extraordinary general meetings.
These concepts have been abolished by the 2006 The time limits for the receipt of the appointment of Act.
Meetings of shareholders other than annual proxies have also been altered by the 2006 Act and Annual Report and Accounts 2008 57 Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting continued a company may now exclude weekends and bank Periodic Retirement of Directors holidays from the period prior to the relevant general The Combined Code on Corporate Governance meeting by which forms of proxy must be received recommends that a Director must submit himself for in order to be valid.
The New Articles reflect these election by shareholders at the first Annual General changes.
Meeting after his appointment and to re-election thereafter at intervals of not more than three years Corporate Representatives until the ninth anniversary of his appointment and annually thereafter.
The New Articles follow this The 2006 Act permits a corporate shareholder to recommendation.
appoint multiple corporate representatives who can attend, speak, vote and count towards a quorum at Age of Directors on Appointment any general meeting.
The New Articles reflect these provisions of the 2006 Act.
The existing Articles contain a provision limiting the age at which a Director can be appointed.
Such a provision could now infringe the Employment Conflicts of Interest Equality Age Regulations 2006 and has not been The New Articles reflect the provisions of the 2006 included in the New Articles.
Act in relation to Directors conflicts of interests which came into force on 1 October 2008.
Indemnification of Directors and Officers From 1 October 2008, a Director must avoid a The New Articles incorporate the 2006 Act situation where he has, or can have, a direct or provisions on indemnification by the Company of its indirect interest which conflicts, or may conflict, with Directors and officers to the extent applicable to the the Companys interests.
The requirement is very Company and reflect the current market standard broad and could apply, for example, where a provisions which have evolved since the existing Director becomes a director of another company or indemnity provisions were adopted.
The 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise Directors Fees conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, It is proposed to increase the amount per annum insofar as the articles of association contain a that the Directors may be paid, out of the funds of provision to this effect.
the Company, by way of fees for their services as It is proposed that the New Articles will contain Directors from an aggregate of 200,000 to provisions giving the Directors authority to approve 300,000. situations involving Directors conflicts of interest and to allow conflicts of interest to be managed by the CREST and the Uncertificated Securities Directors.
Regulations The New Articles contain a number of provisions There are safeguards in the New Articles which will designed to maximise the ability of the Companys apply when Directors decide whether to authorise a Shareholders to utilise CREST.
First, only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and second, in taking the decision, the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
58 British Assets Trust plc Corporate Information Directors Brokers William R E Thomson, Chairman Cenkos Securities Limited James M Long, TD 6.7.
8 Tokenhouse Yard ` James S MacLeod London EC2R 7AS Dr Christopher Masters, CBE Lynn C Ruddick Solicitors I S M Russell, CBE Dickson Minto WS James G West 16 Charlotte Square Edinburgh EH2 4DF Company Secretary Gordon R Hay Smith, CA Bankers JPMorgan Chase Bank Investment Managers 125 London Wall F&C Investment Business Limited London EC2Y 5AJ 80 George Street Edinburgh EH2 3BU Company Number SC 3721 Auditors Ernst & Young LLP Ten George Street Edinburgh EH2 2DZ Chairman of the Management Engagement and Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee ` Chairman of the Audit Committee Senior Independent Director Summerhall Corporate 46321 Registered Office 80 George Street Edinburgh EH2 3BU Tel: 0207 628 8000 Fax: 0131 225 2375 Registrars Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Registrars Shareholder Helpline: 0871 384 2462 Registrars Broker Helpline: 0871 384 2779 Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephone providers costs may vary.
Calls to this number are charged at 1 per minute from a BT landline.
