How to Invest As well as investing in British Assets Trust plc directly through a stockbroker, you can enjoy some additional benefits by investing through one of the savings plans run by F&C Management Limited F&C.
You can enjoy the convenience of making regular savings by Direct Debit, take advantage of our tax-efficient ISA wrapper, receive a simple statement every six months and let us automatically reinvest your dividends for you... F&C Private Investor Plan F&C Child Trust Fund CTF A flexible, low cost way to invest with a lump sum F&C is a leading provider of childrens investment from 500 or regular savings from 50 a month.
plans and is one of the few providers to offer an investment trust based CTF.
Suitable for children born after 1 September 2002... F&C lnvestment Trust ISA F&C Childrens lnvestment Plan Invest up to 7,200 tax efficiently each year with Suitable for older children ineligible for a CTF, or if a lump sum from 500 or regular savings from you need access to the funds before the child is 50 a month.
You can also transfer any existing 18.
This flexible plan can easily be written under ISAs.
trust to help reduce inheritance tax liability.
Investments can be made from a 250 lump sum or 25 a month.
Potential investors are reminded that the value of investments and the income from them may go down as well as up and you may not receive back the full amount originally invested.
Tax rates and reliefs depend on the circumstances of the investor.
Low charges All the plans are low cost and flexible.
When you buy or sell shares in these plans the dealing fee is only 0.2%.
Government stamp duty of 0.5% also applies on purchases.
There are no initial or exit charges.
The only annual management fee is on the ISA, which is 60 VAT no matter how many tax years ISAs you take out with F&C, or how many lSAs you transfer.
The F&C Child Trust Fund has no initial charges, dealing charges or annual management fee.
How to invest For more information on any of these products, please contact F&Cs Investor Services Team: Call us on 0800 136 420 email at info@fandc.
co. uk Existing plan holders enquiry line Calls may be recorded.
0845 600 3030 Existing plan holders email us at: investors.
com The information on this page has been approved by F&C Management Limited which is a member of the F&C Asset Management Group and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
