Statement of Directors Responsibilities Company and enable them to ensure that its Statement of Directors financial statements comply with the Companies Act Responsibilities in Respect of the 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking Annual Report and the Financial such steps as are reasonably open to them to Statements safeguard the assets of the Company and to The Directors are responsible for preparing the prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Annual Report and the financial statements in Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors accordance with applicable law and regulations.
are also responsible for preparing a Directors Company law requires the Directors to prepare Report including a Business Review, a Directors financial statements for each financial year.
Under Remuneration Report and a Corporate Governance that law they have elected to prepare the financial Statement.
statements in accordance with UK Accounting The Directors are responsible for the maintenance Standards.
The financial statements are required by and integrity of the corporate and financial law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs information included on the Companys website.
of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and Company for that period.
dissemination of financial statements may differ from In preparing these financial statements, the Directors legislation in other jurisdictions.
are required to: We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: select suitable accounting policies and then the financial statements, prepared in accordance apply them consistently: with the applicable set of accounting standards, make judgments and estimates that are give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, reasonable and prudent: financial position and profit or loss of the state whether applicable UK Accounting Company: and Standards have been followed, subject to any the Report of the Directors includes a fair review material departures disclosed and explained in of the development and performance of the the financial statements: and business and the position of the Company prepare the financial statements on the going together with a description of the principal risks concern basis unless it is inappropriate to and uncertainties that it faces.
presume that the Company will continue in business.
On behalf of the Board The Directors are responsible for keeping proper W R E Thomson Chairman accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the 14 November 2008 48 British Assets Trust plc
