BEST p22-56 08 P8:BEST p24-54 P2 15 11 08 07:34 Page 54 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the One Hundred and Nineteenth Annual General Meeting of British Empire Securities and General Trust plc will be held at Grocers Hall, Princes Street, London EC2R 8AD at 12.00 noon on 18 December 2008 to consider the following business: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive and adopt the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2008 together with the Reports of the Directors and the Auditors.
To approve a final Ordinary Dividend of 4.00 pence per Ordinary Share.
To approve a Special Dividend for the year of 1.50 pence per Ordinary Share.
To re-elect Mr Peter Allen, who retires under the Articles of Association, as a Director.
To re-elect Mrs Rosamund Blomfield-Smith, who retires under the Articles of Association, as a Director.
To elect Mr Andrew Robson, who was appointed subsequent to the last Annual General Meeting, as a Director.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys Auditor and authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
To receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration Report.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: 9.
THAT, the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 Act to allot relevant securities as defined in the said Section 80 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,400,000 provided that the authority hereby granted shall expire on 17 March 2010 unless otherwise renewed, varied or revoked.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as Special Resolutions: 10.
To adopt new Articles of Association as laid before the meeting.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised and empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in Section 80 of the Act pursuant to Section 95 of the Act as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this authority and power shall expire on 17 March 2010 unless otherwise renewed, varied or revoked and shall be limited to: i the allotment of any such securities having an aggregate nominal value not exceeding 800,400 being approximately 5 per cent of the equity share capital currently in issue: ii the allotment of equity securities at a price excluding expenses of not less than the net asset value per share on the day preceding allotment or, if earlier, the agreement to allot: and iii the transfer or sale of any Shares held by the Company as treasury Shares at prices excluding expenses not exceeding 5% below the net asset value per Share on the day preceding such transfer or sale: 5 4 BEST p22-56 08 P8:BEST p24-54 P2 15 11 08 07:34 Page 55 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 save that the authority and power hereby granted shall permit the Company to make offers or agreements which would or might require any such securities to be allotted, transferred or sold after the expiry of such period and the Directors may allot, transfer or sell such securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements as if the authority hereby granted had not expired.
THAT the Company be and is hereby authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the said Act of the Ordinary Shares of 10p each in the Company Shares provided that: i the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 23,996,005. ii the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 0.10: iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share shall be 5 per cent above the average of the mid market values of the Shares on the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the 5 business days immediately preceding the day of purchase: iv any Shares bought back may be placed in treasury or cancelled, and if held in treasury may be resold or cancelled, at the discretion of the Directors: and v unless otherwise varied or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 17 March 2010 save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into contract s to purchase Shares which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry and the Company may purchase such Shares as if the authority hereby granted had not expired.
By Order of the Board For and on behalf of Registered Office: Phoenix Administration Services Limited - Secretary Bennet House, 54 St. Jamess Street Springfield Lodge, Colchester Road, Chelmsford, Essex CM2 5PW London SW1A 1JT 17 November 2008 Company Number: 28203 Notes 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to represent them and vote in their stead, provided each votes in relation to different shares.
Proxies need not be members of the Company.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed which must be returned duly completed to the Registrar in accordance with the terms printed thereon by no later than 12.00 noon on 16 December 2008.
If more than one proxy is being appointed, the member should copy the Form of Proxy and complete a copy as appropriate for each proxy, and should also state on copy each that it is part of multiple Forms of Proxy for that member.
Completion and submission of Forms of Proxy will not preclude a member from attending and voting in person at the meeting.
Corporate members who propose appointing more than one person to represent them are strongly recommended to appoint multiple proxies rather than multiple corporate representatives since the votes of multiple corporate representatives risk nullification under the Companies Act 2006.
To facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, the arrangements proposed by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators see guidance at www.
uk for corporate representatives will be implemented.
Corporate members are further urged to nominate a designated corporate representative, which could be the Chairman of the meeting, to vote collectively for all of that corporate members multiple corporate representatives.
In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only those members entered on the Register of Members at 6.00pm on the second day before the meeting or any adjournment will be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and changes after that time will be disregarded.
Persons nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights receiving this notice may have a right to be appointed, or have someone else appointed, as proxies if their nominating member so appoints them.
The statements in Notes 1 & 2 above do not apply to nominated persons except where they are properly appointed as proxies.
The register of Directors interests in the Ordinary Shares of the Company will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours Saturdays excepted from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and at Grocers Hall for fifteen minutes prior to and during the Meeting.
There are no service contracts between any of the Directors and the Company.
