REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW Introduction In the highly competitive retail market, our market share of BT is one of the worlds leading communications services consumer and business DSL digital subscriber line and LLU companies, operating in over 170 countries worldwide.
Our broadband connections was 35%, compared with 34% in 2007. principal activities include the provision of: With 4.4 million broadband connections, we continue to be the UKs most popular broadband retailer.
During 2008, revenue from s networked IT services globally: broadband services grew by 10% to 2,219 million.
s local, national and international communications services: s broadband and internet products and services: and Convergent mobility solutions s converged xed mobile products and services.
In the converged world, individuals and businesses increasingly need to connect and communicate wherever they happen to be, Our vision using whatever device they choose.
We offer a range of mobility Our vision is to be dedicated to helping our customers thrive in a services in both the consumer and business markets.
Dedication to our customers is vital in a for example, is one of the leading Wi-Fi wireless broadband competitive market.
By designing everything we do around our services in the UK and at the heart of our wireless cities initiative.
customers, we can help them succeed on their terms.
Customers signing up to our broadband packages get Wi-Fi minutes We aim to be a global leader in converged communications included and we offer Wi-Fi roaming via 3,000 premium BT services.
Convergence bringing together xed-line and mobile Openzone hotspots in the UK and Ireland and a further 40,000 technologies, IT and communications, networks and services is at around the world.
the core of what we offer our customers.
At BT, we call this unied In 2008, group mobility revenue was up 18% at 348 million, communications.
At 31 March 2008, we had a total of 360,000 mobile connections.
We also further extended the Our strategy European coverage of our mobility offering in 2008 through MVNO Our strategy is to increase shareholder value by: mobile virtual network operator agreements with Vodafone in Spain and Italy.
s driving profitable growth in new wave markets: s defending our traditional business: Defending our traditional business s transforming our networks, systems and services for the twentyWe continue to face challenges in our traditional markets as a result first century: and of increased competition, a shift in our customers buying patterns s creating long-term partnerships with our customers.
In response to these conditions, we aim to make our traditional services mainly calls Driving profitable new wave growth and lines ever more compelling for customers.
For example, by At a time when next generation products and services are radically combining voice services in attractive new ways, we can continue to reshaping the communications industry, customers have more add value to our customers lives and businesses.
Revenue from choice than ever before.
But more choice can mean more traditional services was 12,661 million in 2008.
Which is why we aim to offer straightforward and decline of 1% in the year.
comprehensive services, backed by levels of customer service that set us apart from our competitors.
Transforming our networks In the 2008 financial year 2008, 39% of our revenue came Our strategy is to build innovative, software-driven global networks from new wave and next generation products and services that provide platforms for the rapid delivery of exible and resilient primarily networked IT, broadband and convergent mobility new services that transform the customer experience and enable us solutions.
This is up from 36% in the 2007 financial year 2007. to operate more cost effectively.
Our global 21CN twenty-first New wave revenue grew by 9% in 2008, mainly driven by growth in century network is helping to define communications networks for networked IT services and broadband.
the future and we are investing in a exible systems infrastructure throughout BT.
At 31 March 2008, 40% of the core 21CN Global networked IT services infrastructure had been built.
We are a business operator running our customers mission-critical networked IT services, to allow them to focus on their core At the heart of a networked Britain business.
We do this to create value in partnership with our BT has the most comprehensive xed-line communications network customers including, co-investing and co-innovating so that they in the UK, with around 5,600 exchanges, 670 local and 120 trunk can create long-term value for their customers.
We are a global processor units, more than 125 million kilometres of copper wire leader in our target markets, competing with the worlds best.
In and over 10.8 million kilometres of optical bre, and an extensive recent years we have proved our ability to deliver both local and IP backbone network.
global networked IT Services contracts for large corporate customers and other organisations including the government and Our global footprint public sectors around the world.
We have a comprehensive We have one of the most extensive IP-enabled networks in the portfolio of services, supported by tens of thousands of highly world, stretching from Europe to North and South America, the skilled professional services people.
Revenue from networked IT Middle East, Africa and the Asia Pacic region.
services for 2008 was 4,841 million, up 10% on the previous year.
In 2008, we focused on enhancing the quality of our agship MPLS multi-protocol label switching network service which Broadband in the UK provides coverage and support in 172 countries from more than We continue to enhance the availability and attractiveness of 800 BT managed PoPs points of presence and more than 2,500 broadband in the UK.
At 31 March 2008, we had 12.7 million PoPs in partnership.
We installed an average of more than 3,100 broadband lines, including 4.3 million LLU local loop unbundling new customer sites a month on our MPLS network during 2008.
Broadband is available through our wholesale business to a result, MPLS revenue for 2008 grew by 25% to 815 million.
99.6% of the UKs homes and businesses.
2 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2008 Report of the Directors Business review Global customer service is provided via service and network we have been driving cycle time improvements through individual management centres around the world, 24 hours a day, seven days product lines.
In November 2007, BT won the World Communications Association award for Best Customer Care.
Widely recognised as a Free cash ow leading global industry event, the scheme celebrates business Free cash ow in 2008 was 2,462 million, compared with excellence and outstanding service.
For details of how we define free cash ow, see page 19.
Free cash ow is a non-GAAP Creating long-term partnerships measure.
For further discussion of non-GAAP measures, see Our customers are at the heart of what we do and improving page 24. customer service is a critical focus for us.
Understanding our customers needs and responding to them quickly and with insight Transforming BT helps to set us apart from our competitors.
BT is engaged in a process of radical transformation from a xedWe explain elsewhere in this Business review how we are, for line business to a software-driven global communications services example, focusing on areas such as networked IT services contracts company.
In 2008, we invested 402 million in this transformation.
as part of this long-term partnership strategy.
At 31 March 2008, Increasingly, communications infrastructures are no longer just the around 80% of our global services business units major contracts physical network: what is becoming more important now are the were for five or more years, and 70% of consumer revenue was layers of software that make it possible to manage the network under contract.
without the need for physical intervention.
The development of common capabilities, or reusable components, is increasingly How do we measure our success?
enabling us to meet customers needs quickly and exibly.
80% of For 2008, the KPIs key performance indicators against which we our new products already use common capabilities.
measured the success of our strategy were customer service and A year ago we announced a new structure designed to enable us free cash ow.
to transform the way we offer services to our customers.
Today, we are one of the worlds first communications companies to have Being number one for customer service achieved the integration of its networks, IT, processes and technical Our goal is to become number one for customer service.
This enables us to create end-to-end processes, that this is the vital differentiator in all the markets in which we remove unnecessary complexity and bring BT people closer to our operate.
In order to measure our progress, we have changed our customers.
See Our IT systems and networks estate on page 9 for main customer measures to reect more directly the real experience more information about our systems and networks.
our customers have from start to nish.
The key measures we now use are right first time and cycle time: Outlook In our outlook statement in our 2007 Business review, we said that s right first time is the most important measure of whether we we had confidence that we could continue to grow revenue and are keeping our promises to our customers and meeting or EBITDA before specic items in 2008.
We have successfully exceeding their expectations: and delivered growth in these areas.
s cycle time is the time between the start and nish of each and In 2009, we expect to continue to deliver revenue growth as we every customer experience for example, the time elapsed continue our transformation.
Our continued focus on driving between a customers initial attempt to contact BT and receipt efficiencies across the group is expected to generate further gross of the relevant service and payment of the bill.
cost savings of some 700 million which will contribute towards growth in EBITDA before specic items and leaver costs.
We are focusing on getting things right first time because this will streamline the customer experience and reduce cycle times.
How BT is structured We set ourselves the group-wide target in 2008 of improving right BT has four customer-facing lines of business: BT Global Services, first time by 11%.
In fact, we achieved an increase of around 9% BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach, all supported by two and, for the 2009 financial year 2009, our target is to achieve an internal functional units: BT Design and BT Operate.
BT Global Services is a global business operator: BT Retail, BT All parts of BT are required to implement right first time plans Wholesale and Openreach operate mainly within the UK, where BT for their customers, and a number of right first time initiatives is the largest communications services provider to the residential have been introduced.
These range from the prioritisation of sales and business markets.
queue activities, clean order entry and validation, accurate billing and closer working with suppliers throughout our global operations, BT Global Services through to a drive in our retail operations relating to the provision Revenue in 2008 increased by 8% to 7,889 million, compared and repair of products and services.
In our consumer business, for with 7,312 million in 2007.
Non-UK revenue grew by 21% in example, a rigorous emphasis on right first time has driven major 2008 and new wave revenue grew by 10%.
Total orders were improvements in the experience of customers using our broadband 8 billion in 2008. technical help services.
Thanks to the introduction of new processes, a restructuring of the call centre and the delivery of BT Retail customer-focused training programmes, our front line advisers have Revenue in 2008 increased by 2% to 8,477 million, compared been able to deal with customers more effectively.
New wave revenue, mostly dissatisfaction levels have fallen as advisers have been able to broadband, grew by 20%, while traditional revenue, mainly calls handle a higher proportion of customer contacts, without the need and lines, decreased by 3%.
to pass them on to colleagues.
There are four parts to BT Retail: Although the principal emphasis during the year was on right first time, we also paid close attention to cycle time.
In particular, Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2008 3 s Consumer: at 31 March 2008, we had 15 million UK consumer Keeping our costs down customers with around 19 million residential customer exchange We continue to benchmark ourselves against the best in the and broadband lines: industry to determine where efficiencies can be generated.
We s BT Business: at 31 March 2008, we had around one million remain focused on financial discipline and on delivering efficiency business customers in the UK, who between them had 7.5 million programmes to generate sustainable cost efficiencies.
business exchange and broadband lines: Cost transformation programmes delivered 625 million of s BT Ireland, which operates across the major business, SME, savings in 2008 and we expect to deliver around 700 million in consumer and wholesale markets throughout the Republic of 2009.
Many of these programmes are closely linked to right first Ireland and Northern Ireland: and time initiatives, which have the dual benefit of reducing our cost of s Enterprises, which comprises a number of individual businesses: failure as well as enhancing the customer experience.
BT Conferencing, BT Directories, BT Payphones, BT redcare We have, for example, continued to enhance the ways in which monitoring and tracking facilities, BT Expedite a specialist customers interact with BT.
The number of transactions completed retail division offering retail integration solutions and services via bt.
com a leading internet-based retailer of IT and had 3.6 million customers receiving e-bills, almost 1.9 million of technology products.
whom do not receive paper bills.
In response, we have planted one million trees over the past three years.
BT Wholesale We remained focused on reducing the number and complexity In 2008, BT Wholesales main focus was as a market-facing line of of our systems and processes see Our IT systems and networks business.
Overall, revenue decreased by 8% to 4,959 million, estate on page 9.
Other key programmes relate to innovative mainly due to a decline in low margin transit and premium rate procurement and sourcing.
services revenue, price reductions in broadband and volume We continued to explore the possibilities of exible and agile decreases resulting from LLU migrations.
However, at the same working.
At 31 March 2008, 23% of BT people doing what are time, we are increasingly positioning BT Wholesale as a provider of conventionally thought of as ofce jobs did not have a dedicated innovative, managed network solutions, signing a number of major desk of their own.
Rather, they used a combination of deals in 2008. homeworking and or exible workstations which can be shared by multiple users.
Openreach We also made progress in 2008 in our drive to streamline our Openreach is responsible for the crucial first mile of the network in organisation and eliminate duplication.
This will remain a priority in the UK.
It was set up in January 2006, following a strategic review 2009. of the telecommunications market by Ofcom, to offer all communications providers including other BT lines of business Regulation and competition fair, equal and open access to our access and backhaul networks, in BT operates in an increasingly competitive and dynamic commercial order to underpin the future development of the industry.
environment, both in the UK and around the world.
Revenue in 2008 grew by 1% to 5,266 million, driven by Communications markets are undergoing significant change with, external volume growth across Openreachs portfolio of products for example, the accelerating convergence of TV and video services and services.
over xed and mobile broadband connections.
The differences between xed and mobile telephony are increasingly becoming BT Design and BT Operate blurred, with many calls from ofces and homes now being made BT Design is responsible for the design and deployment of the from mobiles.
Service bundles offering TV, broadband and xed and platforms, systems and processes which support our products and mobile telephony are provided by an increasing number of services.
BT Operate is responsible for their operation.
Together, competitors in the market.
they help BT deliver software-driven products over next generation The changing dynamics of the markets and of business models networks.
They also help BT to achieve cost efficiencies.
BT Design are creating new sources of competition and choices for consumers.
and BT Operate serve BTs customer-facing businesses and do not Under these circumstances, we believe that it is critical that generate external revenue.
regulation should only be applied where necessary, otherwise there is a real risk that innovation and investment could be stied.
Our customers The UK has one of the worlds most competitive broadband Our customers comprise: markets, with over four million lines for non-BT communications providers now unbundled LLU.
The success of LLU has led to s major corporate customers global corporations, multi-site Ofcoms see below proposed recognition of separate geographic organisations in the UK and overseas, and governments in the markets in the UK following its wholesale broadband access market UK and overseas : review, a position supported by the European Commission see s consumer customers in the UK: significant market power conditions below.
This is a welcome s small and medium-sized enterprises SME in the UK typically development and means that deregulation would be able to occur companies with up to 1,000 employees, although some of our in areas where infrastructure competition is strong, enabling us to customers in this market are signicantly larger : and compete more effectively.
Ofcom is planning to carry out two s other communications providers in the UK including our narrowband market reviews in the 2009 financial year.
wholesale customers and those who receive access network services provided by Openreach.
Regulation in the UK Electronic communications regulation in the UK is conducted within For financial reporting purposes, we continue to report by lines a framework set out in various EU European Union directives, of business see Financial review.
The framework is currently under review by EU bodies and new directives are expected to take effect in or about 2010.
UK legislation and regulation will therefore need to be amended to reect any changes.
4 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2008 Report of the Directors Business review Our policy is to comply fully with all applicable laws and obligations relating to payphones and special social needs schemes regulations, while competing fairly and vigorously within the rules.
such as the light user scheme.
Ofcom significant market power conditions Ofcom the Ofce of Communications was set up under the Ofce Ofcom is required by the EU directives regularly to review relevant of Communications Act 2002 replacing the previous markets and determine whether any communications provider has telecommunications regulator, Oftel to provide a single, seamless SMP in those markets.
Where Ofcom nds that a provider has SMP, approach to regulating the entire communications market.
Its it must impose such remedies as it considers appropriate, as principal duties are to further the interests of citizens in relation to specified in the Communications Act.
These may include obligations communications matters and to further the interests of consumers to meet reasonable requests to supply certain services to other in relevant markets, where appropriate by promoting competition.
communications providers, not to discriminate unduly, to publish Ofcom regulation takes the form of sets of conditions laid down prices and notify price changes and obligations relating to by Ofcom under the Communications Act 2003 Communications regulatory accounting.
In some cases, additional obligations such as Act, and directions under these conditions.
Some conditions apply price controls and cost orientation have also been imposed.
to all providers of electronic communications networks and services: Following a series of market reviews by Ofcom, BT has been others apply to individual providers, which Ofcom has designated as deemed to have SMP in a number of retail and wholesale xed universal service providers or having SMP significant market power telecommunications markets, including all or parts of the markets in a particular market.
The Communications Act also imposes more for: xed narrowband retail services, xed narrowband wholesale general requirements on communications providers.
exchange lines, call origination and conveyance, wholesale broadband access, wholesale local access and leased lines.
Conditions applying to all providers In 2008, Ofcom continued to work on its review of the General conditions wholesale broadband access market, repeating earlier proposals to The general conditions made by Ofcom apply generally to all define three geographical markets based upon the level of providers of electronic communications networks or services.
competition in individual exchange areas.
For the most competitive Although these conditions are concerned primarily with consumer market, covering around 1,070 exchanges, Ofcom proposes to protection, they also include requirements relating to general remove the SMP obligations, subject to a one-year transition access and interconnection, standards, emergency planning and period.
Ofcoms Final Statement on this market review is expected numbering.
A separate condition regulates the provision of to be published in the first quarter of the 2009 financial year.
In May 2007, following certain improvements to our WLR product, Ofcom granted consent for certain pricing relaxations in  Code ECC relation to business exchange lines for major business customers.
The ECC applies to communications providers authorised to carry Ofcom is also carrying out a market review of business connectivity.
out streetworks and similar activities for network provision.
The This may result in deregulation of some categories of higher application of the ECC is subject to conditions made by the bandwidth wholesale private circuits, and also the extension of Secretary of State for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform.
charge controls to a number of business connectivity services not currently subject to such controls see Pricing regulation on Funds for liabilities page 6.
Ofcom is planning to initiate market reviews of xed Under the terms of the ECC, an electronic communications provider narrowband wholesale services and xed narrowband retail services with apparatus on or in the public highway is required to make in the 2009 financial year.
financial provision to cover any damage caused by work it carries out, and for the removal of its network in the event of liquidation How we are delivering our Undertakings or bankruptcy.
In response to Ofcoms strategic review of telecommunications, we The conditions require an electronic communications provider proposed a number of legally binding Undertakings under the subject to the code to provide Ofcom annually with a certicate Enterprise Act 2002 Enterprise Act.
These Undertakings were that, in the opinion of its board, it has fullled its obligations to accepted by Ofcom and came into force in September 2005. ensure the availability of the required funds.
BT has provided this The Undertakings are intended to deliver clarity and certainty to for the period to 31 March 2009. the UK telecommunications industry and to support a reduction in regulation over time.
significant structural changes have been Other general requirements made to enable BT to deliver the Undertakings, including the Other general requirements contained in the Communications Act creation of a new access services division Openreach and the include: implementation of restrictions on sharing of information between upstream and downstream divisions of BT.
Since the Undertakings s the payment of administrative charges: and came into force, we have made good progress in delivering our s the provision of information to Ofcom when required.
The key Undertakings given by BT are to: Conditions applying to BT Universal service conditions s establish Openreach: BT is the designated supplier of universal service for the UK, s deliver equivalence of input for key wholesale products, and excluding the Hull area where Kingston Communications is the increased transparency for others: designated provider.
The universal service obligations USO are s introduce new rules on access to, and sharing of, certain dened in an order issued by the Secretary of State.
Ofcom restricted information: subsequently adopted universal service conditions based on these s restrict the exercise of inuence by other parts of BT on the obligations.
Our primary obligation is to ensure that basic xed-line commercial policy of both Openreach and parts of BT Wholesale: services are available at an affordable price to all citizens and s ensure fair access and migration to our 21CN for other consumers in the UK.
Other universal service conditions include communications providers: Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2008 5 s publish and make available to all BT people a code of practice Vision.
Mobile broadband has also been a focus for many of the explaining what they must do to comply with the Undertakings: mobile operators as the voice and text market approach saturation.
and Broadband providers are now expected to deliver an excellent level s create an Equality of Access Board EAB to monitor, report and of service in addition to a range of applications and products which advise on BTs compliance with the Undertakings and the code are tailored to the individual needs of customers.
The EAB was established on 1 November 2005.
The EAB Annual Report which does not form part of this report is Competition law available online at www.
com eabreport In addition to communications industry-specic regulation, BT is subject to the Competition Act 1998 Competition Act in the UK In Ofcoms annual report on the impact of the strategic review and EU competition law.
Breach of UK or EU competition rules of telecommunications, published in December 2007, Ofcom could lead to fines of up to 10% of a companys worldwide revenue reviewed the impact of the Undertakings and concluded that BTs in its previous financial year and or claims for damages in national progress in implementing them had delivered benets for industry courts.
A company may also be ordered to cease an infringing and for consumers.
Ofcom also identied a number of areas where activity.
Where we operate outside of the UK, we are also subject to changes to the Undertakings are required.
These include the competition laws in the relevant countries.
Openreachs provision of space, power and Ethernet services, and In 2004, Ofcom launched an investigation into allegations that the process for consulting with industry on the deployment of BT had abused a dominant position in relation to its pricing of 21CN.
We are working closely with Ofcom on the form these consumer broadband products.
Ofcom sent BT three statements of changes will take.
objection to which we responded, and argued that our pricing does not amount to an abuse of dominance.
Ofcom is expected to issue Pricing regulation a decision during the 2009 financial year.
BT is no longer subject to retail price controls covering publicswitched telephony services.
Other wholesale services continue to Other significant changes and issues be subject to price controls: Ofcom is currently conducting a review of the Openreach financial framework, with the aim of creating a long-term financial s Network charge control: We operate under interconnection environment in which Openreach will deliver efficiency, coverage agreements with most other CPs communications providers.
and high quality services, while ensuring that equivalence of access Our charges for a range of interconnect services are controlled encourages improved service performance.
The consultation is by Ofcom, under the NCC network charge control regime.
expected to begin in early summer 2008 and any newly proposed These controls are designed to ensure that our charges are regulatory measures should take effect during 2009. reasonably derived from costs, plus an appropriate return on The implementation of the Undertakings and continuing capital employed.
Depending on the degree of competition, changes to the market for Openreach products have resulted in charges are cap controlled each year by RPI Retail Price Index changes to Openreachs cost base.
The focus of Ofcoms review is minus X for services Ofcom considers unlikely to become likely to be the current price ceilings on the copper access products competitive in the near future, and safeguard cap-controlled ie WLR and LLU and transaction connections, migrations and no increases above RPI for services likely to become rental charges.
X is a number specic to a particular market, This review is, in our view, a significant milestone and we indicating the permitted change in controlled prices relative to welcome it as an opportunity to create regulatory certainty and the rate of ination.
The current NCC period began on financial stability, as well as provide incentives for Openreach to 1 October 2005 and will last until 30 September 2009.
BT must invest and innovate.
notify Ofcom and other CPs if it intends to amend existing charges or offer new services.
Regulation outside the UK s Other charge controls: PPCs partial private circuits are leased BT must comply with the regulatory regimes in the countries in lines that BT sells to other network operators.
On 1 October which we operate and this can have a material impact on our 2004, Ofcom introduced a PPC charge control to replace the business.
annual determinations previously carried out by Oftel.
The control is a four-year, three-part RPI minus X formula covering Doing business in the European Union low and high bandwidth services and equipment.
Ofcom will Communications regulation in each EU country is conducted within carry out a review of the PPC charge control before the existing the regulatory framework determined by EU directives, regulations control expires on 30 September 2008.
In its consultation on and recommendations.
This framework is currently under review the business connectivity market review, Ofcom has proposed to see Regulation in the UK on page 4.
The manner and speed with remove our SMP designation in relation to higher bandwidth which the existing directives have been implemented vary from PPCs and certain circuits provided in Central London.
This would country to country and national regulators are working together in result in these services being removed from the charge control.
the European Regulators Group to introduce greater harmonisation However, Ofcom has also proposed to extend charge controls to in their approach to the assessment of SMP and the imposition of PPC trunk segments, wholesale Ethernet origination services and appropriate remedies.
BT does not have universal service obligations outside the UK, although in certain member states we may be required to Competition contribute towards an industry fund to pay for the cost of meeting UK market trends universal service obligations in those countries.
The UK market has seen another strong year of growth in The European Commission formally investigated the way the UK broadband, with Wi-Fi proving ever more popular both in and out Government set BTs property rates and those paid by Kingston of the home.
Broadband networks have supported the launch and Communications, and whether or not the UK Government complied increased usage of new services, including peer-to-peer with European Community Treaty rules on state aid.
It concluded applications, such as the BBCs iPlayer, and IPTV, including BT that no such state aid had been granted.
The Commissions decision 6 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2008 Report of the Directors Business review has now been appealed, but we continue to believe that any Our brand values are implicit in our advertising strap line Bringing allegation of state aid is groundless and that the appeal will not it all together which captures both what we can do for customers succeed.
and our commitment to acting as a single BT team.
During 2008 we made great progress with the task of The rest of the world integrating the brands and identities of the various IT services The vast majority of the communications markets in which we businesses that we have acquired in the UK and around the world.
operate around the world are subject to regulation, and in most of As each of these companies adopts the BT brand and identity, they these we have to meet certain conditions and have had to obtain enhance our reputation for expertise in delivering services in local licences or other authorisations.
The degree to which these markets markets, while the acquired companies gain from the global scale are liberalised varies widely which means that our ability to and trust that the BT brand brings with it.
compete fully in some countries is constrained.
We continue to press incumbent operators and their national Our people regulatory authorities around the world including in the EU for Our aim is to create a team of high-performing, engaged and cost-related wholesale access to their networks where appropriate motivated people who can make a difference for customers, and for advance notice of any changes to their network design or shareholders, the company and themselves.
technology which would have an impact on our ability to serve our customers.
Building a global team Our people strategy continued to support the transformation of BT Our relationship with HM Government in our drive to become number one for customer service.
As we The UK Government, collectively, is our largest customer, but the increasingly operate globally, so our workforce outside the UK provision of services to any one of its departments or agencies does continues to grow.
At 31 March 2008, BT employed 111,300 not comprise a material proportion of our revenue.
Except as people worldwide 102,000 in the UK and the rest of Europe, the described below, the commercial relationship between BT as a Middle East and Africa: 4,700 in the Americas: and 4,600 in the supplier and the UK Government as a customer has been on a Asia Pacic region.
significant acquisition activity during the normal customer and supplier basis.
financial year meant that 8,455 new employees were integrated We can, however, be required by law to do certain things and within the BT family.
The acquisition, for example, of Frontline provide certain services for the UK Government.
General conditions involved the transfer of 3,264 people to BT.
made under the Communications Act require all providers of public Our success as a business depends on recruiting, retaining, telephone networks and or publicly available telephone services, developing and rewarding skilled and talented people who live by including BT, at the request of and in consultation with the the BT values.
authorities, to make, and if necessary implement, plans for the provision or restoration of services in connection with disasters.
The Nurturing leadership capabilities Civil Contingencies Act 2004 contains provisions enabling The quality of leadership is also vital to the successful obligations to be imposed on providers of public electronic transformation of BT.
We are focused on ensuring that leaders at all communications networks, including BT, in connection with civil levels understand what is expected of them, have access to contingency planning.
In addition, the Secretary of State has appropriate development opportunities and are able to benchmark statutory powers to require us to take certain actions in the interest their performance against that of their peers.
of national security and international relations.
Encouraging learning and development Legal proceedings We offer employees a wide range of learning and re-skilling We do not believe that there are any pending legal proceedings opportunities.
A variety of online and instructor-led courses are that would have a material adverse effect on the financial position available through Route2Learn, our group-wide web-based or operations of the group.
We have created and operate a learning governance model to There have been criminal proceedings in Italy against 21 defendants, including a former BT employee, in connection with ensure that learning and development within BT really do align with the Italian UMTS universal mobile telecommunications system our key strategic objectives.
Our successful company-wide auction in 2000.
Blu, in which we held a minority interest, re-accreditation to Investors in People first achieved in 1998 is a participated in that auction process.
On 20 July 2005, the former vital measure of our success in achieving this alignment.
BT employee was found not culpable of the fraud charge brought Key to being number one for customer service is developing a by the Rome Public Prosecutor.
All the other defendants were also passionately customer-centric culture in BT and ensuring that our acquitted.
The Public Prosecutor has appealed the courts decision.
people have the skills and the tools necessary to ensure that every If the appeal is successful, we could be held liable, with others, for customer experience is an excellent one.
A number of development any damages.
The company has concluded that it would not be initiatives designed to improve our right first time performance appropriate to make a provision in respect of any such claim.
For example, by the end of May 2008, BT Design and BT Operate will have taken about 21,000 people from Our resources around the world through a one-day event focused on a number of Our brand and reputation practical ways to improve the customer experience and to drive BT has a strong reputation and a trusted brand that is widely innovation and cross-organisation problem solving.
recognised in the UK and around the world.
Our brand helps to shape our relationships with customers, suppliers and employees.
Rewarding and recognising achievement As a vital asset, the BT brand needs to be developed, protected Around 40,000 managers are eligible for variable, performanceand managed with the same rigour that we bring to other assets, related bonuses and the remuneration of our most senior managers both tangible and intangible.
And as the world and the markets in is linked to BTs total shareholder return performance measured which we operate change, so our brand needs to reect this, over a period of three years or, in the case of Openreach senior becoming more confident, dynamic and forward looking.
managers, Openreachs performance over a three-year period.
Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2008 7 From 2009, remuneration will also be linked to the manner in development and implementation of local diversity and inclusion which objectives are met as well as to the fact that they are met.
For example, in 2008 Openreach developed a This how factor will take into account the behaviours managers recruitment campaign to attract more women and people from exemplify customer-centric leadership abilities in meeting their ethnic minority backgrounds into the engineering workforce.
campaign received a Chairmans Award from Race for Opportunity We are also developing ways of recognising and rewarding not and the Investor of the Year award from Women into Science, just individual performance but also teamwork between individuals Engineering and Construction WISE.
and between different parts of the business, in order to promote We benchmark our policies and practices against the standards new ways of serving our customers best interests.
set by a number of organisations including Race for Opportunity We operate a exible benets programme in many parts of BT, BT ranking: 3rd, the Employers Forum on Disability BT ranking: which gives employees the freedom to choose between different 3rd, Opportunity Now gender BT ranking: 6th, Stonewall sexual types of benets, exchanging salary for healthcare or bonus orientation BT ranking: 11th and the Schneider Ross Global payments for enhanced pension contributions.
Diversity and Inclusion benchmark BT ranking: 2nd.
We continued to provide our employees with opportunities to Outside the UK, we are working to ensure that our policies and share in the groups success.
Employees outside the UK receive an practices are tailored to address legislation country by country, as award of free BT Group plc shares or a cash equivalent depending well as respecting cultural differences.
on local legal and or regulatory requirements from 2008, all BT Flexible working for example, hot-desking, ofce sharing and employees in the UK were entitled to receive free broadband working from home enables people with disabilities, caring instead of an award of free shares.
Employees in more than 25 responsibilities and those returning from maternity leave to work where once it would have been difficult.
All BT employees have the countries also have the opportunity to save to buy BT Group plc shares at a discount to the price at the start of the savings period.
right to request exible working and it is already well established in And under the BT Employee Share Investment Plan ESIP, UK our UK operations where more than 11,000 employees work from employees can buy BT Group plc shares from their pre-tax and prehome.
This practice is increasingly important in our global NI salaries.
95% of eligible employees participate in one or more of operations where during 2008, we ran exible working initiatives in these plans.
Spain, France, the Netherlands and the US.
Most of our employees are members of the BT Pension Scheme a dened benefit scheme or the BT Retirement Plan a money Health and safety purchase scheme, both of which are controlled by independent The health and safety of our people are of paramount importance trustees.
The BT Pension Scheme was closed to new members on and we continue to seek improvements by focusing on behavioural 31 March 2001.
The majority of new employees are eligible to join lifestyle change.
In 2008, we concentrated our health promotion the BT Retirement Plan see Pensions in the Financial review on activities on mental well-being impaired mental health is our page 23. single greatest cause of lost time and productivity.
Our sickness absence rate amounted to 2.43% of calendar days being lost 20% Connecting with our people lower than five years ago.
During 2008, we reduced our accident Our annual employee attitude survey was conducted most recently rate by more than 20% to 1.9 lost time incidents per million in February 2008 and attracted a 72% response rate over 74,000 working hours at 31 March 2008. responses.
The survey generates around 5,000 feedback reports for managers and their teams across the business, helping to promote Our global research and development capability effective team working.
We are developing a global R&D research and development Employees are kept informed about our business through a wide capability to support BTs drive to meet customers needs around range of communications channels, including our online news the world.
We have a world-class team of researchers, scientists service, bi-monthly newspaper, regular e-mail bulletins and senior and developers, including over 3,100 people at Adastral Park management webchats and webcast briengs.
England, a research team based in Malaysia and a new R&D centre in China.
We have announced plans to establish a joint research and We have a record of stable industrial relations and enjoy generally constructive relationships with recognised unions in the innovation centre in the United Arab Emirates with the Emirates UK and works councils elsewhere in Europe.
In the UK, we Telecommunications Corporation Etisalat and Khalifa University.
recognise two main trade unions the Communication Workers And we play a lead role in the India-UK Advanced Technology Union and Connect.
We also operate a pan-European works council Centre, a consortium of industry and academic partners from India the BTECC.
We have dedicated innovation scanning teams in the US, Asia Embedding exibility and promoting diversity and the Middle East who identify more than 600 new technologies, We continue to create an inclusive working environment in which business propositions and market trends a year.
employees can thrive regardless of their race, sex, religion beliefs, We embrace open innovation, reaching out beyond the disability, marital or civil partnership status, age, sexual orientation, company to nd the best people and the best ideas, wherever they gender identity, gender expression or caring responsibilities.
We are involved in partnerships at every stage of 22% of our workforce is female, women hold 19 of our top 81 the innovation process, from scientific research to the development leadership roles and make up 29% of the people in our leadership of new products and services.
10% of our most highly rewarded people in In 2008, we invested 1,252 million in R&D to support our drive the UK are from an ethnic minority background and 16.5% are for innovation.
This investment comprised capitalised software female.
development costs of 720 million and R&D operating costs of Diversity and inclusion at BT are led by our Global Equality and 532 million.
This compares with 1,119 million in 2007, which Diversity Forum.
Each diversity group eg gender, race, disability comprised 741 million of capitalised software development costs is championed by a senior manager who is a member of the Forum.
and 378 million of R&D operating costs.
In addition, each line of business has a senior manager champion for equality and diversity, who is responsible for the promotion, 8 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2008 Report of the Directors Business review Embracing open innovation This section conforms to the Association of British Insurers We work with more than 30 universities around the world and have disclosure guidelines on social responsibility.
More detailed open innovation partner relationships with the University of information about our social, ethical and environmental Cambridge, UCL University College London and MIT performance is available in our independently veried 2008 Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Examples of collaborations sustainability report at www.
com betterworld include our work with Cambridge University to research protocols We invest significant resources in our CSR programmes and and architectures for wireless mesh networks, and the work we believe that it is vital that we continue to be forward-looking and have done with MIT Sloan on the applications of systems dynamics responsible in our everyday operations and maintain our reputation modelling.
We are also a member of the Participate consortium a UK During 2008, our UK accreditation to environmental government-funded project to explore the ways in which a management standard ISO 14001 was renewed, and we achieved combination of pervasive broadcast and online media can create certication for our operations in Ireland, Italy and Belgium.
And we led the EU-funded NM2 aim is to gain accreditation around the world.
We have had ISO collaborative research project into shapeshifted TV TV that can 9001 the international quality management system standard be personalised to suit the preferences of individual viewers.
certication for our operations in the UK and much of the rest of Building on our long tradition of innovation, we led patent the world since 1994. applications for 168 inventions in 2008.
We routinely seek patent During 2008, our CSR strategy prioritised three areas where BT protection in different countries including the US, Japan, France, can make the most difference: climate change, social inclusion and Germany and China, and we currently maintain a total worldwide sustainable economic growth.
portfolio of around 8,000 patents and applications.
Recognition of our contribution to society External venturing In July 2007, BT won Business in the Communitys prestigious We have successfully launched nine innovative, independent startCompany of the Year award for our positive impact on society.
The up companies, six through the corporate venturing partnership unit award goes to the company judged to be improving its business New Venture Partners, in which we are a limited partner.
They and its overall impact on society, in the marketplace, the include Azure Solutions, which merged with Subex to become the workplace, the environment and the community, through worlds largest revenue assurance company.
Real Time Content is leadership and integration of responsible business practices.
the latest company to be launched.
During 2008, BT was ranked as the top telecommunications company in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the seventh year Our IT systems and networks estate in a row.
The Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes rank companies for Our dedicated IT and networks professionals have a strong record in their success in managing social, ethical and environmental issues the development and delivery of systems and solutions and in for competitive advantage.
We were reaccredited with the Queens managing a secure and resilient infrastructure.
In 2008, in addition Award for Enterprise in recognition of our contribution to to the infrastructure work for 21CN, we focused significant systems sustainable development.
In 2008, we retained our Platinum development effort on introducing new programmes and services Banding for companies scoring over 95% on Business in the over 21CN and improving right first time performance.
We were the top We continued the radical transformation of the BT systems scorer in all but three of the 79 impact areas.
And the Association estate, with the aim of achieving year-on-year cost reductions at of Chartered Certied Accountants ACCA named BT as the winner the same time as improving speed to market and enhancing the of its best sustainability report award 2007. customer experience.
By eliminating duplication and simplifying and rationalising our Being a responsible business systems, we have been able to reduce the number of systems in CSR touches every part of our business from the way we interact use.
In 2008, we closed almost 650 systems, bringing cumulative with our customers, suppliers and partners, look after our people, give back to communities and support charities, right through to net closures to around 1,350 in less than three years.
our practical concern for the environment.
We commit a minimum Our property portfolio of 1% of our UK pre-tax profits cash and in-kind to activities At 31 March 2008, we occupied approximately 7,000 properties in which support society.
We provided a total of 22.3 million the UK and approximately 400 properties in the rest of the world.
designed to benefit society in 2008, of which 2.5 million was in The majority of these UK properties are owned by and leased charitable donations.
from the Telereal Group, which is part of the William Pears Group.
Our community investment strategy aims to help individuals These properties mainly house exchange equipment and are needed and communities make a better world through improved as part of our continuing activities.
Other general purpose communications skills and technology.
Our BT Better World properties consist chiey of ofces, depots and computer centres.
campaign aims to ensure that young people have the We anticipate that the deployment of innovative technology communication skills they need.
Over three million young people which makes possible the consolidation of exchange equipment benefit from BTs educational resources every year.
along with changes to our working patterns, will continue to reduce ChildLine, a UK charity, receives calls from 4,500 children every the size of our property portfolio and the amount we invest in it.
day but lack of funds means that many hundreds go unanswered.
We are working with ChildLine on a campaign to ensure that every Our wider responsibilities childs call for help is answered.
In 2008, BT and BT employees Sustainability and corporate social responsibility CSR raised 650,000 for ChildLine.
We see CSR as the voluntary action a company takes to contribute BT volunteers and call centre employees take donations as part to the wider social goal of sustainable development.
of major charity telephone and online appeals, including Children in Managing social, ethical and environmental issues in a way that Need, Sport Relief and Comic Relief, helping to raise millions of grows shareholder value, builds our brand and helps us and our pounds each year.
We also manage the telephone networks and customers become more sustainable is very important to us.
Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2008 9 provide equipment for these events.
And we help the Disaster In 2008, we launched our sustainability practice, helping our Emergency Committee DEC respond to international disasters.
customers improve their CSR performance.
The first consultancy In 2007, we launched our first global development partnership offering is a carbon impact assessment.
with UNICEF to develop community projects to bring education, ICT The London Organising Committee of the Olympic Games and information and communications technology and communications Paralympic Games LOCOG reinforced its vision of a Games for the skills to disadvantaged children.
BT is investing 1.5 million over Digital Age by announcing in March 2008 that BT had become the three years and this will be added to by fundraising activities by BT latest Tier One partner of the London 2012 Games.
As the ofcial people around the world.
Projects were launched in South Africa in communications services partner, we will be responsible for 2007, and in Brazil in April 2008.
China is scheduled for 2009. providing the communications services supporting the Games.
As a More than 140,000 has already been raised to support the Sustainability Partner, we will use our involvement with the Games projects in South Africa where, with BTs support, UNICEF has built as a platforms to drive and showcase our sustainability agenda.
or renovated classrooms at 25 of the countrys most impoverished schools, as well as providing ICT training for teachers.
Around Group risk factors 18,000 children have benefited.
The two-year initiative in Brazil In common with all businesses, BT is affected by a number of risk aims to reach more than 10,000 disadvantaged young people in factors, not all of which are wholly within our control.
Although ten schools in Sao Paulo, Rio fide Janeiro, Belo Horizonte, Salvador many of the risk factors inuencing our performance are and Fortaleza.
By making communications skills and technology macroeconomic and likely to affect the performance of businesses available in this way, we are enabling young people to tackle issues generally, others are particular to our operations.
that affect them, their schools and their communities.
This section highlights some of those particular risks affecting In June 2007, we announced a three-year partnership with the our business but it is not intended to be an extensive analysis of all British Red Cross in support of disaster relief worldwide.
We are the risk affecting our business.
Some risks may be unknown to us and first global communications services company ever to partner with other risks, currently regarded as immaterial, could turn out to be the British Red Cross in this way.
We are investing 100,000 a year material.
All of them have the potential to impact our business, to provide essential satellite, IT and GPS equipment.
By funding a revenue, profits, assets, liquidity and capital resources adversely.
three-year programme, BT and the British Red Cross can ensure We have a dened enterprise-wide risk management process for that the relevant equipment is in place so that relief can be identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by deployed anywhere in the world as quickly as possible.
The group risk register captures the most significant risks partnership builds on our current support for disaster relief through facing the business over a three year strategic planning horizon.
DEC and is a natural extension of our own emergency response and Each risk is assigned a senior management owner responsible for civil resilience activities.
monitoring and evaluating the risk and the mitigation strategies.
The group risk register has been reviewed by the Operating What are our CSR risks?
Committee before being reviewed and approved by the Board.
For a number of years we have maintained a CSR risk register.
The risk factors below are all identied on the group risk register During 2008 we continued to develop our knowledge and and should be considered against the background of our risk understanding of our CSR risks.
Our most significant CSR risks management process.
The risk factors discussed in this section are continue to be: considered to be consistent with the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group.
The risk factors should also be s breach of our code of business ethics: considered in connection with the statement on Internal control s climate change: over financial reporting on page 25, the forward-looking s diversity: statements in this document and the Cautionary statement s health and safety: regarding forward-looking statements on page 94. s outsourcing: s privacy: and Regulatory controls s supply chain working conditions.
Some of our activities are subject to significant price and other regulatory controls which may affect our market share, competitive Each of these risks has an owner within BT and a mitigation position and future profitability.
These risks are not regarded as material in Most of our wholesale xed-network activities in the UK are relation to the group and consequently are not included in Group subject to significant regulatory controls.
The controls regulate, risk factors.
among other things, the prices we may charge for many of our services and the extent to which we have to provide services to CSR opportunities other communications providers.
In recent years, the effect of these In general, corporate sustainability efforts have tended to focus on controls has been to cause us to reduce our prices.
We cannot mitigating risks and reducing social and environmental impacts.
assure our shareholders that the regulatory authorities will not Although we believe that such efforts are essential, they are only increase the severity of the price controls, nor extend the services part of the story.
If our sustainability efforts really are to support to which controls apply including any new services that we may our business growth, we need actively to seek out commercial offer in the future, nor extend the services which we have to opportunities.
provide to other communications providers.
These controls may In our view, information and communications technology has a adversely affect our market share, the severity of competition and positive role to play as part of the solution as individuals and our future profitability.
organisations look for more sustainable ways of communicating, In response to Ofcoms strategic review of telecommunications, working and living.
Our sustainable economic growth programme is we proposed a number of legally binding Undertakings that were intended to help BT and our customers achieve socially beneficial accepted by Ofcom and came into force in September 2005.
In growth within environmental limits.
This has a very direct Ofcoms annual report on the impact of the Telecoms Strategic connection with our business strategy and our commitment to put Review, published in December 2007, Ofcom noted the real our customers at the heart of what we do.
progress we had made to date in meeting the Undertakings, and 10 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2008 Report of the Directors Business review described where we could take further action to benefit UK be incurred and margins may decline if xed costs cannot be consumers.
A number of challenging milestones in the Undertakings reduced in line with falling revenue.
also remain to be delivered.
In the case of a breach of the Undertakings, Ofcom has the right Transformation strategy to seek an injunction through the courts.
Third parties who suffer Our strategy for transformation includes the targeting of significant losses as a result of the breach may also take action against BT in growth in new business areas.
Pressure for the introduction of next This may result in changes to our products, services, markets generation access services could result in BT being forced to invest and culture.
If this transformation strategy is unsuccessful there is a without being able to recover a fair return on the investment.
risk that future revenue and profitability will decline.
In particular, Ofcom is conducting a review of the Openreach financial we have targeted significant growth in new business areas, such as framework during the 2009 financial year.
Whilst the review is, in networked IT services, broadband and mobility.
In view of the likely our view, an opportunity to create regulatory certainty and financial level of competition and uncertainties regarding the level of stability, there is a risk that it may adversely affect our competitive economic activity, there can be no certainty that we will meet our position and future returns on our regulated copper asset base.
growth targets in these areas, with a consequential impact on Further details on the regulatory framework in which we operate future revenue and profitability.
can be found in Regulation and competition on page 4.
Major contracts Competition in UK xed-network services Our business may be adversely affected if we fail to perform on We face strong competition in UK xed-network services.
Ofcom considers that we have significant market power in We have entered into a number of complex and high value various parts of the UK xed telecommunications market.
In these networked IT services contracts with customers.
Our pricing, cost areas Ofcom can enforce obligations to meet reasonable requests to and profitability estimates for major contracts generally include supply services to other communications providers, not to anticipated long-term cost savings that we expect to achieve over discriminate unduly, to notify price changes and in some cases it the life of the contract.
can also impose extra obligations such as price controls.
These estimates are based on our best judgement of the Ofcom has promoted competition in the xed-network area by efficiencies we plan to deploy.
Any increased costs, delays or measures including local loop unbundling, carrier pre-selection failures to achieve the anticipated savings could make these making it easier for BT customers to route some or all of their calls contracts less profitable or loss making, thereby adversely impacting over other communications providers networks and wholesale our profit margins.
In some cases, our products and services incorporate software or Reduction in our share of the xed network market may lead to system requirements from other suppliers or service providers.
Our a fall in our revenue and an adverse effect on profitability.
Unlike ability to meet our commitments in a timely manner may depend other communications providers, we continue to be obliged by the on the ability of these suppliers and service providers to meet their current regulatory regime to serve customers in the UK, whether or obligations.
Failure to manage and meet our commitments under not such provision of service is economic.
these contracts may lead to a reduction in our future revenue, There is also competition for voice and data trafc volumes profitability and cash generation.
between xed-network operators and those operators offering VoIP and mobile services.
The impact of all these factors may be to Networks and systems failures accelerate the diversion of our more profitable customers without Our business depends on our ability to transfer substantial volumes being able to reduce our costs commensurately, which may cause of data speedily and without interruption.
adverse effects on our business, profitability, financial condition and Any significant failure or interruption of such data transfer as a prospects.
result of factors outside our control could have a material adverse effect on the business and our results from operations, including the deployment of 21CN.
We have a business continuity strategy in Technological advances Our continued success depends on our ability to exploit new place, designed to deal with such catastrophic events including, for technology rapidly.
example, major terrorist action, industrial action, extreme computer We operate in an industry with a recent history of rapid virus attack, hurricane or ooding.
A failure to deliver that strategy technological changes and we expect this to continue new may lead to a reduction in our profitability and there can be no technologies and products will emerge and existing technologies assurance that material adverse events will not occur.
and products will develop further.
We need to continually exploit next-generation technologies in Pensions order to develop our existing and future services and products.
We have a funding obligation to a dened benefit pension scheme.
However, we cannot predict the actual impact of these future Declining investment returns, longer life expectancy and technological changes on our business or our ability to provide regulatory changes may result in the cost of funding BTs dened competitive services.
For example, there is evidence of substitution benefit pension scheme BTPS becoming a significant burden on by customers using mobile phones for day-to-day voice calls in our financial resources.
As a result, of the triennial actuarial place of making such calls over the xed-network and of calls being valuation of the BTPS at 31 December 2005, we agreed to make routed over the internet in place of the traditional switched annual deficiency payments of 280 million over ten years.
If these trends accelerate, our xed-network assets may three instalments totalling 840 million were paid upfront by April be used uneconomically and our investment in these assets may not 2007. be recovered through profits on xed-network calls and line The results of future scheme valuations and associated funding rentals.
requirements will be impacted by the future performance of The complexity of the 21CN programme, and the risk that our investment markets, interest and ination rates and the general major suppliers fail to meet their obligations may result in delays to trend towards longer life expectancy, as well as regulatory changes, the delivery of the expected benets.
Impairment write-downs may all of which are outside our control.
Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2008 11
