REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS PARENT COMPANY Independent auditors report to the members of British Telecommunications plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of British Telecommunications plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 which comprise the balance sheet, accounting policies and the related notes.
These parent company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
These parent company financial statements are set out on pages 78 to 93.
We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements of British Telecommunications plc for the year ended 31 March 2008.
This separate report is set out on page 28.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Form 20-F and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Report of the Directors.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: r the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 March 2008: r the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and r the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, United Kingdom 16 May 2008 Report of the independent auditors parent company British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2008 77 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES I Accounting basis according to the nature of the contract.
For long-term services As used in these financial statements and associated notes, the contracts turnover is recognised on a straight line basis over the term company refers to British Telecommunications plc BT plc.
However, if the performance pattern is other These separate financial statements of the company are presented than straight line, turnover is recognised as services are provided, as required by the Companies Act 1985.
The separate financial usually on an output or consumption basis.
For xed price statements have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally contracts, including contracts to design and build software Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
solutions, turnover is recognised by reference to the stage of The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis completion, as determined by the proportion of costs incurred and under the historical cost convention as modied by the relative to the estimated total contract costs or other measures of revaluation of certain financial instruments.
completion such as, contract milestone or customer acceptance.
In As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the the case of time and materials contracts, turnover is recognised as companys profit and loss account has not been presented.
The BT plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended Costs related to delivering services under long-term contractual 31 March 2008 contain a consolidated statement of cash ows.
arrangements are expensed as incurred.
An element of costs Consequently, the company has taken advantage of the exemption incurred in the initial set up, transition or transformation phase of in FRS 1, Cash Flow Statements not to present its own cash ow the contract are deferred and recorded within debtors due after statement.
These costs are then recognised in the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the remaining The BT plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 contain related party disclosures.
Consequently, the contractual term, unless the pattern of service delivery indicates a company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8, Related different prole is appropriate.
These costs are directly attributable Party Disclosures not to disclose transactions with other members to specic contracts, relate to future activity, will generate future of the BT Group.
economic benets and are assessed for recoverability on a regular basis.
II Adoption of new accounting standards and pronouncements The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of The company has adopted Financial Reporting Standard No.
29 total expected contract turnover and costs, as well as reliable Financial Instruments: Disclosures FRS 29 during the year.
FRS 29 measurement of the progress made towards completion.
Unless the sets out the requirement for the presentation of, and disclosures financial outcome of a contract can be estimated with reasonable relating to, financial instruments, and replaces the disclosure certainty, no attributable profit is recognised.
In such requirements of FRS 25, Financial Instruments: Disclosures and circumstances, revenue is recognised equal to the costs incurred to Presentation.
The company is exempt from the requirements of date, to the extent that such turnover is expected to be FRS 29 because the company is included in the BT Group plcs recoverable.
Recognised turnover and profits are subject to publicly available consolidated financial statements for the year revisions during the contract if the assumptions regarding the ended 31 March 2008, which include disclosures that comply with overall contract outcome are changed.
The cumulative impact of a IFRS 7, the equivalent International Financial Reporting Standard.
revision in estimates is recorded in the period in which such revisions become likely and can be estimated.
Where the actual and III Turnover estimated costs to completion exceed the estimated turnover for a Turnover represents the fair value of the consideration received or contract, the full contract life loss is immediately recognised.
receivable for communication services and equipment sales, net of Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more discounts and sales taxes.
Turnover from the rendering of services separate elements that have value to a customer on a standalone and the sale of equipment is recognised when it is probable that basis, turnover is recognised for each element as if it were an the economic benets associated with a transaction will ow to the individual contract.
The total contract consideration is allocated between the separate elements on the basis of relative fair value company, and the amount of turnover and the associated costs can be measured reliably.
Where the company acts as agent in a and the appropriate turnover recognition criteria applied to each transaction it recognises turnover net of directly attributable costs.
Turnover arising from separable installation and connection services is recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Turnover IV Research and development from the rental of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is Expenditure on research and development is written off as incurred.
recognised evenly over the period to which the charges relate.
Turnover from calls is recognised at the time the call is made over V Leases the companys network.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and depreciated Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges for over their useful lives.
The capital element of future obligations access to broadband and other internet access or voice services, are under finance leases are recognised as liabilities.
The interest recognised as turnover as the service is provided.
Turnover arising element of rental obligations are charged over the period of the from the interconnection of voice and data trafc between other finance lease and represent a constant proportion of the balance of telecommunications operators is recognised at the time of transit capital repayments outstanding.
If a sale and leaseback transaction results in a finance lease, any Turnover from the sale of peripheral and other equipment is excess of sale proceeds over the carrying amount is deferred and recognised when all the significant risks and rewards of ownership recognised in the income statement over the lease term.
are transferred to the buyer, which is normally the date the Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are equipment is delivered and accepted by the customer.
held by the lessor are classied as operating leases by the lessee.
Turnover from long-term contractual arrangements is Operating lease rentals are charged against the profit and loss recognised based on the percentage of completion method.
The account on a straight-line basis over the lease period.
If a sale and stage of completion is estimated using an appropriate measure 78 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2008 Parent company accounting policies leaseback transaction results in an operating lease, any profit or loss IX Asset impairment non-financial assets is recognised in the profit and loss account immediately.
Fixed assets are tested for impairment when an event that might affect asset values has occurred.
Goodwill is also reviewed for VI Foreign currencies impairment at the end of the first financial year after acquisition.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying currency using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the amount cannot be recovered either by selling the asset or by the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from discounted future cash ows from operating the assets.
settlement of such transactions, and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at X Stocks period end exchange rates are recognised in the profit and loss Stocks mainly comprise items of equipment held for sale or rental account except when deferred in reserves as qualifying cash ow and consumable items.
Equipment held and consumable items are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value, after provisions for VlI Goodwill obsolescence.
Cost is calculated on a first-in-first-out basis.
Goodwill, arising from the purchase of businesses, represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair XI Redundancy costs value of the identiable net assets acquired.
Redundancy or leaver costs are payable when employment is Goodwill is amortised on a straight line basis from the time of terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an acquisition over its useful economic life.
The economic life is employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these normally presumed to be a maximum of 20 years.
If a business is subsequently sold, the appropriate unamortised Redundancy or leaver costs are charged against profit in the goodwill is dealt with through the profit and loss account in the year in which the company is demonstrably committed to the period of disposal as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
VIII Tangible xed assets XII Post retirement benets Tangible xed assets are stated at historical cost less depreciation.
The company operates a funded dened benefit pension plan, which is administered by an independent trustee for the majority of Cost its employees.
Cost in the case of network infrastructure and equipment includes The companys net obligation in respect of dened benefit direct labour, contractors charges, payments on account, materials, pension plans, is calculated separately for each scheme by direct labour and directly attributable overheads.
estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service to date.
That benefit is discounted Depreciation to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets Depreciation is provided on tangible xed assets on a straight line is deducted.
The discount rate used is the yield at the balance sheet basis from the time the asset is available for use, so as to write off date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates the costs over the estimated useful life taking into account any approximating the terms of the companys obligations.
Freehold land is not subject to calculation is performed by a qualied actuary using the projected depreciation.
The net obligation recognised in the balance The lives assigned to other significant tangible xed assets are: sheet is the present value of the dened benefit obligation less the fair value of the scheme assets.
Land and buildings The profit and loss account charge is split between an operating Freehold buildings 40 years charge and a net finance charge.
The operating charge reects the Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of lease service costs which are spread systematically over the working lives or 40 years, whichever is of the employees.
The net finance charge relates to the unwinding the shorter of the discount applied to the liabilities of the scheme offset by the expected return on the assets of the scheme, based on conditions Network infrastructure and equipment prevailing at the start of the year.
Transmission equipment: Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in Duct 40 years which they occur and are presented in the reconciliation of Cable 3 to 25 years movement in equity shareholders funds.
Radio and repeater equipment 2 to 25 years Actuarial valuations of the main dened benefit plan are carried Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years out by an independent actuary as determined by the trustees at Payphones, other network equipment 2 to 20 years intervals of not more than three years to determine the rates of contribution payable.
The pension cost is determined on advice of Other the companys actuary, having regard to the results of these trustee Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years valuations.
In any intervening years, the actuaries review the Computers and ofce equipment 3 to 6 years continuing appropriateness of the contribution rates.
Software 2 to 5 years XIII Share based payment Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of The ultimate parent undertaking, BT Group plc, has a number of the lease term or their useful economic life.
Residual values and employee share schemes and share option plans, as detailed in useful lives are reassessed annually, and if necessary changes are note 30 in the BT plc consolidated financial statements, under recognised prospectively.
which it makes equity settled share based payments to certain employees of the company.
Equity settled share based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant after taking into Parent company accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2008 79 account the companys best estimate of the number of awards of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets are expected to vest.
For share based payments to employees of the carried at fair value, with unrealised gains and losses except for company, the fair value determined at the date of grant is changes in exchange rates for monetary items, interest, dividends expensed on a straight line basis together with a corresponding and impairment losses which are recognised in the profit and loss increase in equity over the vesting period.
account are recognised in equity until the financial asset is Fair value is measured using either the Binomial or Monte Carlo derecognised, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously model, whichever is the most appropriate.
recognised in equity is taken to the profit and loss account in the The company has taken advantage of the transitional provisions line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or of FRS 20 Share based payment in respect of equity settled transaction.
awards and has applied FRS 20 only to those awards granted after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 1 January 2005.
Debtors Trade debtors are initially recognised at fair value, which is usually XIV Deferred Taxation the original invoiced amount and subsequently carried at amortised Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all timing differences cost using the effective interest method less provisions made for which have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded Provisions are made specically where there is objective as more likely than not that there will be sufficient taxable profits evidence of a dispute or an inability to pay.
An additional provision from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
The is made based on an analysis of balances by age, previous losses deferred tax balances are not discounted.
experienced and general economic conditions.
XV Dividends Cash Interim and final dividends are recognised when they are paid.
Cash includes cash in hand, bank deposits repayable on demand and bank overdrafts.
XVI Provisions Provisions are recognised when the company has a present legal or Impairment of financial assets constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that The company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and financial asset or group of financial assets are impaired.
the amount can be reliably estimated.
Financial liabilities within Where there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has provisions are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently arisen on assets carried at amortised cost, the carrying amount is carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
reduced with the loss being recognised in the profit and loss Provisions are discounted to present value where the effect is account.
The impairment loss is measured as the difference material.
between that assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows discounted at the financial assets XVII Financial instruments original effective interest rate.
The impairment loss is only reversed Financial assets if it can be related objectively to an event after the impairment was Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss recognised and is reversed to the extent the carrying value of the A financial asset is classied in this category if acquired principally asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the date of reversal.
for the purpose of selling in the short-term or if so designated by If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising management.
Financial assets held in this category are initially the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and recognised and subsequently measured at fair value, with changes amortisation and its fair value is transferred from equity to the in value recognised in the profit and loss account in the line which profit and loss account.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
instruments are taken through the profit and loss account if the increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non derivative financial assets with xed income statement.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market classied as available-for-sale are not recognised in the profit and other than: loss account.
r those that the company intends to sell immediately or in the If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been short-term, which are classied as held for trading: incurred on an unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at r those for which the company may not recover substantially all of fair value because its fair value cannot be objectively measured, or its initial investment, other than because of credit deterioration, on a derivative asset that is linked to and must be settled by which are classied as available-for-sale.
delivery of such an unquoted equity instrument, the amount of loss Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount transaction costs and subsequently carried at amortised cost using and the present value of estimated future cash ows discounted at the effective interest method, with changes in carrying value the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
recognised in the profit and loss account in the line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
Financial liabilities Creditors Fixed asset investments Creditors are initially recognised at fair value, which is usually the Fixed asset investments are stated at cost net of permanent original invoiced amount, and subsequently carried at amortised diminution in value.
cost using the effective interest method.
Available-for-sale financial assets Loans and other borrowings Non derivative financial assets classied as available-for-sale are Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at fair value either specically designated in this category or not classied in any plus directly attributable transaction costs.
Where loans and other 80 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2008 Parent company accounting policies borrowings contain a separable embedded derivative, the fair value the associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in of the embedded derivative is the difference between the fair value equity are reclassied into the profit and loss account in the same of the hybrid instrument and the fair value of the loan or other period or periods during which the asset acquired or liability borrowing.
The fair value of the embedded derivative and the loan assumed affects the profit and loss account.
or borrowing is recorded separately on initial recognition.
Loans Any ineffectiveness arising on a cash ow hedge of a recognised and other borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost asset or liability is recognised immediately in the same profit and using the effective interest method and if included in a fair value loss account line as the hedged item.
Where ineffectiveness arises hedge relationship are revalued to reect the fair value movements on highly probable transactions, it is recognised in the line which on the hedged risk associated with the loans and other borrowings.
most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
The resultant amortisation of fair value movements are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Fair value hedge When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of Financial guarantees the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or Financial guarantees are recognised initially at fair value plus unrecognised rm commitments, the change in fair value of the transaction costs and subsequently measured at the higher of the derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges are recorded in amount determined in accordance with the accounting policy the same line in the profit and loss account, together with any relating to provisions and the amount initially determined less, changes in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is when appropriate, cumulative amortisation.
attributable to the hedged risk.
Derivative financial instruments Discontinuance of hedge accounting The company uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce Discontinuance of hedge accounting may occur when a hedging exposure to foreign exchange risks and interest rate movements.
instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no The company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments longer qualies for hedge accounting or the group revokes for financial trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged financial qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading asset or liability remains or highly probable transaction is still instruments.
Under a cash ow hedge the cumulative gain or Derivative financial instruments are classied as held for trading loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance and initially recognised at cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The gain or transaction is no longer expected to take place or the underlying loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in hedged financial asset or liability no longer exists, the cumulative the profit and loss account in net finance income.
However, where unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any immediately in the profit and loss account.
Under a hedge of a net resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge.
investment the cumulative gain or loss remains in equity when the Derivative financial instruments are classied as current assets or hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the current liabilities where they are held for trading or have a maturity hedge no longer qualies for hedge accounting or the group period within 12 months.
Where derivative financial instruments revokes designation of the hedge relationship.
The cumulative gain have a maturity period greater than 12 months and are designated or loss is recognised in the profit and loss account as part of the in a hedge relationship, they are classied within either non current profit on disposal when the net investment in the foreign operation assets or non current liabilities.
Under a fair value hedge the cumulative gain or loss Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other adjustment associated with the hedged risk is amortised to the host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risk profit and loss account using the effective interest method over the and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts remaining term of the hedged item.
and host contracts are not carried at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of embedded derivatives are recognised in the profit and loss account in the line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
Hedge accounting Cash ow hedge When a financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
For cash ow hedges of recognised assets or liabilities, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the same line in the profit and loss account in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects the profit and loss account.
For highly probable transactions, when the transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non financial asset or non financial liability the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or carrying amount of the non financial asset or liability.
If a hedge of a highly probable transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, then Parent company accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2008 81 PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET As at 31 March British Telecommunications plc parent company balance sheet 2008 2007 Notes m m Fixed assets Intangible assets 1 408 435 Tangible assets 2 15,270 14,728 Derivative financial instruments 3 310 25 Investments in subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures 4 45,572 45,649 Other investments 5 316 103 Total xed assets 61,876 60,940 Current assets Stocks 86 108 Debtors 6 7,929 7,820 Derivative financial instruments 3 77 27 Other investments 5 20,072 17,329 Cash at bank and in hand 187 4 Total current assets 28,351 25,288 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Loans and other borrowings 7 46,195 44,305 Derivative financial instruments 3 267 318 Other creditors 8 5,789 5,447 Total creditors: amounts falling due within one year 52,251 50,070 Net current liabilities 23,900 24,782 Total assets less current liabilities 37,976 36,158 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year Loans and other borrowings 7 19,964 14,081 Derivative financial instruments 3 805 992 Other creditors 9 675 568 Total creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 21,444 15,641 Provisions for liabilities and charges Deferred taxation 10 1,818 1,713 Other provisions 10 286 307 Total provisions for liabilities and charges 2,104 2,020 Net assets excluding pension asset obligation 14,428 18,497 Pension asset obligation 16 2,054 230 Net assets including pension asset obligation 16,482 18,267 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 11 2,172 2,172 Share premium account 12 8,000 8,000 Other reserves 13 821 693 profit and loss account 12 5,489 7,402 Equity shareholders funds 16,482 18,267 The financial statements of the company on pages 78 to 93 were approved by the board of directors on 14 May 2008 and were signed on its behalf by Hanif Lalani Director 82 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2008 Parent company balance sheet
