CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting Policies iii Revenue i Basis of preparation of the financial statements Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in receivable for communication services and equipment sales, net of accordance with applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the EU and discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue from the rendering of services as issued by the IASB.
The financial statements have been prepared and the sale of equipment is recognised when it is probable that under the historical cost convention, modied for the revaluation of the economic benets associated with a transaction will ow to the certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value.
group and the amount of revenue and the associated costs can be The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS measured reliably.
Where the group acts as an agent in a requires the use of accounting estimates.
It also requires transaction it recognises revenue net of directly attributable costs.
management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying Revenue arising from separable installation and connection the groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree services is recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Revenue of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and from the rental of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, recognised evenly over the period to which the charges relate.
are disclosed below in Critical accounting estimates and key Revenue from calls is recognised at the time the call is made over judgements.
The groups income statement and segmental analysis separately Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges for identies trading results before significant one-off or unusual items access to broadband and other internet access or voice services, are termed specic items, a non GAAP measure.
This is consistent recognised as revenue as the service is provided.
Revenue arising with the way that financial performance is measured by from the interconnection of voice and data trafc between other telecommunications operators is recognised at the time of transit management and assists in providing a meaningful analysis of the trading results of the group.
The directors believe that the across the groups network.
presentation of the groups results in this way is relevant to an Revenue from the sale of peripheral and other equipment is understanding of the groups financial performance as specic recognised when all the significant risks and rewards of ownership items are significant one-off or unusual in nature and have little are transferred to the buyer, which is normally the date the predictive value.
Furthermore, the group consider a columnar equipment is delivered and accepted by the customer.
presentation to be appropriate as it improves the clarity of the Revenue from long-term contractual arrangements is recognised presentation and is consistent with the way that financial based on the percentage of completion method.
The stage of performance is measured and reported to the board of directors.
completion is estimated using an appropriate measure according to Specic items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures the nature of the contract.
For long-term services contracts used by other companies.
Items which have been considered revenue is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the significant one-off or unusual in nature include disposals of contract.
However, if the performance pattern is other than straight businesses and investments, business restructuring, asset line, revenue is recognised as services are provided, usually on an impairment charges and property rationalisation programmes.
The output or consumption basis.
For xed price contracts including directors intend to follow such a presentation on a consistent basis contracts to design and build software solutions, revenue is in the future.
Specic items for the current and prior years are recognised by reference to the stage of completion, as determined disclosed in note 4. by the proportion of costs incurred relative to the estimated total Accounting policies in respect of the parent company British contract costs or other measures of completion such as contract Telecommunications plc, are set out on pages 78 to 81.
These are milestone customer acceptance.
In the case of time and materials in accordance with UK GAAP.
contracts, revenue is recognised as the service is rendered.
Costs related to delivering services under long-term contractual ii Basis of consolidation arrangements are expensed as incurred.
An element of costs The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements incurred in the initial set up, transition or transformation phase of of British Telecommunications plc the company and entities the contract are deferred and recorded within non current assets.
These costs are then recognised in the income statement on a controlled by the company its subsidiaries and incorporate its share of the results of jointly controlled entities joint ventures and straight line basis over the remaining contractual term, unless the associates using the equity method of accounting.
pattern of service delivery indicates a different prole is The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the appropriate.
These costs are directly attributable to specic year are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition or up to contracts relate to future activity, will generate future economic the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, benets and are assessed for recoverability on a regular basis.
adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of associates and joint ventures to bring the accounting policies used total expected contract revenues and costs, as well as reliable in line with those used by the group.
All intra-group transactions, measurement of the progress made towards completion.
Unless the balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
financial outcome of a contract can be estimated with reasonable Investments in associates and joint ventures are initially certainty, no attributable profit is recognised.
In such recognised at cost.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying value of circumstances, revenue is recognised equal to the costs incurred to the groups investment in associates and joint ventures includes the date, to the extent that such revenue is expected to be recoverable.
groups share of post acquisition reserves, less any impairment in Recognised revenue and profits are subject to revisions during the the value of individual assets.
The income statement reects the contract if the assumptions regarding the overall contract outcome groups share of the results of operations after tax of the associate are changed.
The cumulative impact of a revision in estimates is or joint venture.
recorded in the period in which such revisions become likely and The groups principal operating subsidiaries and associate are can be estimated.
Where the actual and estimated costs to detailed on page 93. completion exceed the estimated revenue for a contract, the full contract life loss is immediately recognised.
Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate elements that have value to a customer on a standalone Accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2008 29 basis, revenue is recognised for each element as if it were an differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in a individual contract.
The total contract consideration is allocated separate component of equity, the translation reserve.
between the separate elements on the basis of relative fair value In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and and the appropriate revenue recognition criteria applied to each liabilities denominated in foreign currency, the cumulative element as described above.
translation difference associated with the undertaking in the translation reserve is charged or credited to the gain or loss on iv Other operating income disposal.
Other operating income is income generated by the group that arises from activities outside of the provision of communication vii Business combinations services and equipment sales.
Items reported as other operating The purchase method of accounting is used for the acquisition of income include such items as profits and losses on disposal of subsidiaries, in accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
On property, plant and equipment, income generated by our eet transition to IFRSs, the group elected not to apply IFRS 3 operations, repayment works and income from the exploitation of retrospectively to acquisitions that occurred before 1 April 2004. our intellectual property.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries which occurred between 1 January 1998 and 1 April 2004 is therefore included in v Leases the balance sheet at original cost, less accumulated amortisation to The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a the date of transition and any provisions for impairment.
Goodwill lease, is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary which occurred prior to 1 an assessment of whether the fullment of the arrangement is January 1998 was written off directly to retained earnings.
dependent on the use of a specic asset or assets and whether the On acquisition of a subsidiary, fair values are attributed to the arrangement conveys the right to use the asset.
The excess of the cost of the Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group holds acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as identiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost finance leases.
of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the groups share of Finance lease assets are capitalised at the commencement of the the identiable net assets acquired, the difference is recognised lease term at the lower of the present value of the minimum lease directly in the income statement.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the payments or the fair value of the leased asset.
The obligations gain or loss on disposal includes the carrying amount of goodwill relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of relating to the subsidiary sold.
Goodwill previously written off to future periods, are recognised as liabilities.
Leases are subsequently retained earnings is not recycled to the income statement on measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
If a disposal of the related subsidiary.
sale and leaseback transaction results in a finance lease, any excess of sale proceeds over the carrying amount is deferred and viii Intangible assets recognised in the income statement over the lease term.
Identiable intangible assets are recognised when the group Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are controls the asset, it is probable that future economic benets held by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Rentals are attributable to the asset will ow to the group and the cost of the charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the asset can be reliably measured.
All intangible assets, other than period of the lease.
If a sale and leaseback transaction results in an goodwill and indefinite lived assets, are amortised over their useful operating lease, any profit or loss is recognised in the income economic life.
The method of amortisation reects the pattern in statement immediately.
which the assets are expected to be consumed.
If the pattern cannot be determined reliably, the straight line method is used.
vi Foreign currencies Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups Goodwill subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the identiable net assets economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in including intangible assets of the acquired subsidiary.
Goodwill is Sterling, the presentation currency of the group.
tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional impairment losses.
currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the Telecommunication licences settlement of such transactions and from the translation of Licence fees paid to governments, which permit telecommunication monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at activities to be operated for dened periods, are initially recorded period end exchange rates are recognised in the income statement at cost and amortised from the time the network is available for use in the line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item to the end of the licence period.
Where monetary items form part of the net investment in a foreign operation and are designated as hedges of Brands, customer lists and customer relationships a net investment or as cash ow hedges, such exchange differences Intangible assets acquired through business combinations are are initially recognised in equity.
recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Assumptions are On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign undertakings used in estimating the fair values of acquired intangible assets and are translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results include managements estimates of revenue and profits to be of foreign undertakings are translated into Sterling at average rates generated by the acquired businesses.
of exchange for the year unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effects of the rates prevailing on Computer software the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are Computer software comprises computer software purchased from translated at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange third parties, and also the cost of internally developed software.
30 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2008 Accounting policies Computer software purchased from third parties is initially recorded Other at cost.
Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years Computers and ofce equipment 3 to 6 years Subscriber acquisition costs Subscriber acquisition costs are expensed as incurred, unless they Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of meet the criteria for capitalisation, in which case they are the lease term or their useful economic life.
Residual values and capitalised and amortised over the shorter of the customer life or useful lives are re-assessed annually and if necessary changes are contractual period.
Estimated useful economic lives xi Borrowing Costs The estimated useful economic lives assigned to the principal All borrowing costs are expensed in the income statement in the categories of intangible assets are as follows: period in which they are incurred.
Telecommunication licences 1 to 5 years xii Asset impairment non-financial assets Brands, customer lists and customer relationships 3 to 15 years Intangible assets with nite useful lives and property, plant and Computer software 2 to 5 years equipment are tested for impairment if events or changes in circumstances assessed at each reporting date indicate that the ix Research and development carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When an impairment test Research expenditure is recognised in the income statement in the is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to period in which it is incurred.
the higher of the net present value of expected future cash ows Development expenditure, including the cost of internally value in use of the relevant cash generating unit and the fair developed software, is recognised in the income statement in the value less cost to sell.
period in which it is incurred unless it is probable that economic Goodwill and intangible xed assets with indefinite useful lives benets will ow to the group from the asset being developed, the are tested for impairment at least annually.
cost of the asset can be reliably measured and technical feasibility If a cash generating unit is impaired, provision is made to reduce can be demonstrated.
Capitalisation ceases when the asset being the carrying amount of the related assets to their estimated developed is ready for use.
recoverable amount, normally as a specic item.
Impairment losses Research and development costs include direct labour, are allocated rstly against goodwill, and secondly on a pro rata contractors charges, materials and directly attributable overheads.
basis against intangible and other assets.
Where an impairment loss is recognised against an asset it may x Property, plant and equipment be reversed in future periods where there has been a change in the Property, plant and equipment is included in the balance sheet at estimates used to determine the recoverable amount since the last historical cost, less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment loss was recognised, except in respect of impairment of impairment.
goodwill which may not be reversed in any circumstances.
On disposal of property, plant and equipment, the difference between the sale proceeds and the net book value at the date of xiii Inventory disposal is recorded in the income statement.
Inventory mainly comprises items of equipment held for sale or rental and consumable items.
Cost Equipment held and consumable items are stated at the lower of Included within the cost for network infrastructure and equipment cost and estimated net realisable value, after provisions for are direct labour, contractors charges, materials, payments on obsolescence.
Cost is calculated on a first-in-first-out basis.
account, and directly attributable overheads.
xiv Termination benets Depreciation Termination benets leaver costs are payable when employment is Depreciation is provided on property, plant and equipment on a terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an straight line basis from the time the asset is available for use, so as employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these to write off the assets cost over the estimated useful life taking benets.
The group recognises termination benets when it is into account any expected residual value.
Freehold land is not demonstrably committed to the affected employees leaving the subject to depreciation.
The lives assigned to principal categories of assets are as follows: xv Post retirement benets Land and buildings The group operates a funded dened benefit pension plan, which is Freehold buildings 40 years administered by an independent trustee for the majority of its Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of employees.
lease or 40 years, The groups net obligation in respect of dened benefit pension whichever is the shorter plans is calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the Network infrastructure and equipment amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for Transmission equipment: their service to date.
That benefit is discounted to determine its Duct 40 years present value, and the fair value of any scheme assets is deducted.
Cable 3 to 25 years The discount rate used is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA Radio and repeater equipment 2 to 25 years credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years terms of the groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a Payphones, other network equipment 2 to 20 years qualied actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The net obligation recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the dened benefit obligation less the fair value of the plan assets.
Accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2008 31 The income statement charge is allocated between an operating xviii Advertising and marketing charge and a net finance charge.
The operating charge reects the The costs associated with the groups advertising and marketing service cost which is spread systematically over the working lives of activities are expensed within other operating costs as incurred.
The net finance charge reects the unwinding of the discount applied to the liabilities of the plan, offset by the xix Dividends expected return on the assets of the plan, based on conditions Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the year in which they prevailing at the start of the year.
are declared and approved by the company in general meeting.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
which they occur and are presented in the statement of recognised income and expense.
xx Provisions Actuarial valuations of the main dened benefit plan are carried Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or out by an independent actuary as determined by the trustees at constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely intervals of not more than three years, to determine the rates of than not that an outow of resources will be required to settle the contribution payable.
The pension cost is determined on the advice obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Financial of the groups actuary, having regard to the results of these trustee liabilities within provisions are initially recognised at fair value and valuations.
In any intervening years, the actuaries review the subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest continuing appropriateness of the contribution rates.
Provisions are discounted to present value where the The group also operates dened contribution pension schemes effect is material.
Certain comparative amounts have been adjusted and the income statement is charged with the contributions to conform with the presentation adopted in 2008, resulting in a reclassication of 45 million from other payables to non-current payable.
xvi Share based payments The ultimate parent, BT Group plc, has a number of employee share xxi Financial Instruments schemes, share option and award plans under which it makes equity Recognition and derecognition of financial assets and financial settled share based payments to employees of the group.
The fair liabilities value of options and awards granted is recognised as an employee Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the expense after taking into account the groups best estimate of the group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the number of awards expected to vest allowing for non market and instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when the group no service conditions.
Fair value is measured at the date of grant and longer has rights to cash ows, the risks and rewards of ownership is spread over the vesting period of the award.
The fair value of or control of the asset.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when options and awards granted is measured using either the Binomial the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
or Monte Carlo model, whichever is most appropriate to the award.
In particular, for all regular way purchases and sales of financial Any proceeds received are credited to share capital and share assets, the group recognises the financial assets on the settlement premium when the options are exercised.
The group has applied date, which is the date on which the asset is delivered to or by the IFRS 2, Share based payment retrospectively to all options and group.
awards granted after 7 November 2002 and not fully vested at 1 January 2005.
Financial assets Financial assets at fair value through income statement xvii Taxation A financial asset is classied in this category if acquired principally Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is for the purpose of selling in the short-term held for trading or if provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the so designated by management.
Financial assets held in this tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted category are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair by the balance sheet date.
value, with changes in value recognised in the income statement in the line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability method, in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amount of the transaction.
groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
Deferred tax liabilities are offset against deferred tax assets Loans and receivables within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax group.
Any Loans and receivables are non derivative financial assets with xed remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there other than: will be suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, in the those that the group intends to sell immediately or in the short foreseeable future against which the deductible temporary term, which are classied as held for trading: difference can be utilised.
those for which the group may not recover substantially all of its Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to initial investment, other than because of credit deterioration, apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or liability settled, which are classied as available-for-sale.
based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus enacted by the balance sheet date.
transaction costs and subsequently carried at amortised cost using Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on the effective interest method, with changes in carrying value investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except recognised in the income statement, in the line which most where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Available-for-sale financial assets Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income Non-derivative financial assets classied as available-for-sale are statement, except when the tax relates to items charged or credited either specically designated in this category or not classied in any directly in equity, in which case the tax is also recognised in equity.
Available-for-sale financial assets are 32 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2008 Accounting policies carried at fair value, with unrealised gains and losses except for is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount changes in exchange rates for monetary items, interest, dividends and the present value of estimated future cash ows discounted at and impairment losses which are recognised in the income the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
statement are recognised in equity until the financial asset is derecognised, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously Financial liabilities recognised in equity is taken to the income statement, in the line Trade and other payables which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or Financial liabilities within trade and other payables are initially transaction.
recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced amount, and subsequently carried at amortised cost using one Trade and other receivables effective interest method.
Financial assets within trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced Loans and other borrowings amount and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at fair value effective interest method less provisions made for doubtful plus directly attributable transaction costs.
Where loans and other receivables.
borrowings contain a separable embedded derivative, the fair value Provisions are made specically where there is objective of the embedded derivative is the difference between the fair value evidence of a dispute or an inability to pay.
An additional provision of the hybrid instrument and the fair value of the loan or is made based on an analysis of balances by age, previous losses borrowing.
The fair value of the embedded derivative and the loan experienced and general economic conditions.
or borrowing is recorded separately on initial recognition.
Loans and other borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost Cash and cash equivalents using the effective interest method and if included in a fair value Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current hedge relationship are revalued to reect the fair value movements balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily on the hedged risk associated with the loans and other borrowings.
convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to The resultant amortisation of fair value movements are insignicant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity recognised in the income statement.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash ow statement, cash Financial guarantees and cash equivalents are as dened above net of outstanding bank Financial guarantees are recognised initially at fair value plus overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are included within loans and other transaction costs and subsequently measured at the higher of the borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
amount determined in accordance with the accounting policy In 2008, the group reclassied certain investment within cash relating to provisions and the amount initially determined less, equivalents to current available-for-sale assets as management when appropriate, cumulative amortisation.
considered this to be the more appropriate maturity classication.
The reclassication as at 31 March 2007 was 267 million.
The Derivative financial instruments equivalent balance at 31 March 2008 reported within availableThe group uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce for-sale assets was 439 million.
exposure to foreign exchange risks and interest rate movements.
The group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments Impairment of financial assets for financial trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading asset or group of financial assets are impaired.
Where there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has Derivative financial instruments are classied as held for trading arisen on assets carried at amortised cost, the carrying amount is and initially recognised at cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, reduced with the loss being recognised in the income statement.
derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in The impairment loss is measured as the difference between that assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future the income statement in net finance income.
However, where cash ows discounted at the financial assets original effective derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any interest rate.
The impairment loss is only reversed if it can be resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge.
related objectively to an event after the impairment was recognised Derivative financial instruments are classied as current assets or and is reversed to the extent the carrying value of the asset does current liabilities where they are not designated in a hedging not exceed its amortised cost at the date of reversal.
relationship or have a maturity period within 12 months.
Where If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising derivative financial instruments have a maturity period greater than the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and 12 months and are designated in a hedge relationship, they are amortisation and its fair value is transferred from equity to the classied within either non current assets or non current liabilities.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other instruments are taken through the income statement if the increase host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risk in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the and host contracts are not carried at fair value.
Changes in the fair income statement.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments value of embedded derivatives are recognised in the income classied as available-for-sale are not recognised in the income statement in the line which most appropriately reects the nature statement.
of the item or transaction.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred on an unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at Hedge accounting fair value because its fair value cannot be objectively measured, or To qualify for hedge accounting, hedge documentation must be on a derivative asset that is linked to and must be settled by prepared at inception and the hedge must be expected to be highly delivery of such an unquoted equity instrument the amount of loss effective both prospectively and retrospectively.
The hedge is tested Accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2008 33 for effectiveness at inception and in subsequent periods in which on disposal when the net investment in the foreign operation is the hedge remains in operation.
Under a fair value hedge the cumulative gain or loss adjustment associated with the hedged risk is amortised to the Cash ow hedge income statement using the effective interest method over the When a financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the remaining term of the hedged item.
variability in cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the Critical accounting estimates and key judgements derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs For cash ow hedges of recognised assets or liabilities, the requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
It also associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of recognised in the same line in the income statement in the same applying the groups accounting policies.
We continually evaluate period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects the our estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available income statement.
As the use of estimates is inherent in For highly probable transactions, when the transaction financial reporting, actual results could differ from these estimates.
subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity are non-financial liability the associated cumulative gain or loss is described below.
removed from equity and included in the initial cost or carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
Long-term customer contracts If a hedge of a highly probable transaction subsequently results Long-term customer contracts can extend over a number of in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, then financial years.
During the contractual period, revenue, costs and the associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in profits may be impacted by estimates of the ultimate profitability of equity are reclassied into the income statement in the same period each contract.
If, at any time, these estimates indicate the contract or periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the contract is affects the income statement.
The group performs ongoing profitability Any ineffectiveness arising on a cash ow hedge of a recognised reviews of its contracts in order to determine whether the latest asset or liability is recognised immediately in the same income estimates are appropriate.
Key factors reviewed include transaction statement line as the hedged item.
Where ineffectiveness arises on volumes, or other inputs, for which we get paid, future staff and highly probable transactions, it is recognised in the line which most third party costs and anticipated cost productivity, savings and appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
Fair value hedge Providing for doubtful debts When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of BT provides services to around 16 million individuals and the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or businesses, mainly on credit terms.
We know that certain debts due unrecognised rm commitment, the change in fair value of the to us will not be paid through the default of a small number of our derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges are recorded in customers.
Estimates, based on our historical experience, are used the same line in the income statement, together with any changes in determining the level of debts that we believe will not be in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to collected.
These estimates include such factors as the current state the hedged risk.
of the economy and particular industry issues.
Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation Interconnect income and payments to other telecommunications Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of currency operators instruments designated as hedges of net investments in a foreign In certain instances BT relies on other operators to measure the operation are taken to shareholders equity on consolidation to the trafc ows interconnecting with our networks.
Estimates are used in these cases to determine the amount of income receivable from extent the hedges are deemed effective.
Any ineffectiveness arising on a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation is recognised or payments we need to make to these other operators.
The prices in net finance income.
at which these services are charged are often regulated and are subject to retrospective adjustment and estimates are used in Discontinuance of hedge accounting assessing the likely effect of these adjustments.
Discontinuance of hedge accounting may occur when a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no Pension obligations longer qualies for hedge accounting or the group revokes BT has a commitment, mainly through the BT Pension Scheme, to designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged financial pay pension benets to approximately 350,000 people over more asset or liability remains or a highly probable transaction is still than 60 years.
The cost of these benets and the present value of expected to occur.
Under a cash ow hedge the cumulative gain or our pension liabilities depend on such factors as the life expectancy loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance of the members, the salary progression of our current employees, with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged the return that the pension fund assets will generate in the time transaction is no longer expected to take place or the underlying before they are used to fund the pension payments and the rate at hedged financial asset or liability no longer exists, the cumulative which the future pension payments are discounted.
We use unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised estimates for all these factors in determining the pension costs and immediately in the income statement.
Under a hedge of a net liabilities incorporated in our financial statements.
The assumptions investment, the cumulative gain or loss remains in equity when the reect historical experience and our judgement regarding future hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the expectations.
hedge no longer qualies for hedge accounting or the group revokes designation of the hedge relationship.
The cumulative gain or loss is recognised in the income statement as part of the profit 34 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2008 Accounting policies Useful lives for property, plant and equipment s Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements The plant and equipment in BTs networks is long-lived with cables Capital Disclosures Amendment to IAS 1 and switching equipment operating for over ten years and s IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2 underground ducts being used for decades.
The annual depreciation s IFRIC 9, Reassessment of embedded derivatives charge is sensitive to the estimated service lives allocated to each s IFRIC 10, Interim financial reporting and impairment type of asset.
Asset lives are assessed annually and changed when s IFRIC 11, IFRS 2, Group and treasury share transactions necessary to reect current thinking on their remaining lives in light of technological change, network investment plans including the The adoption of these standards has not had a significant impact groups 21CN transformation programme, prospective economic on the groups financial position or results of operation.
The utilisation and physical condition of the assets concerned.
Changes adoption of IFRS 7 and the amendment to IAS 1 has resulted in to service lives of assets implemented from 1 April 2007 in additional disclosures in the groups annual report and Form 20-F. aggregate had no significant impact on the results for the year ended 31 March 2008.
Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards not yet effective Property arrangements Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing As part of the property rationalisation programme, we have standards have been published that are mandatory for the groups identied a number of surplus properties.
Although efforts are accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2008 or later being made to sub-let this space, it is recognised that this may not periods, but which the group has not adopted early.
Those which be possible immediately in the current economic environment.
are relevant to the groups operations are as follows: Estimates have been made of the cost of vacant possession and any shortfall arising from the sub lease rental income being lower than IFRS 2, Share based payments vesting conditions and the lease costs being borne by BT.
Any such cost or shortfall has cancellations, effective from 1 April 2009 been recognised as a provision.
The amendment to IFRS 2 restricts the denition of a vesting condition to a condition that includes an explicit or implicit Income tax requirement to provide services.
Any other conditions are nonThe actual tax we pay on our profits is determined according to vesting conditions, which have to be taken into account to complex tax laws and regulations.
Where the effect of these laws determine the fair value of the equity instruments granted.
In the and regulations is unclear, we use estimates in determining the case that the award does not vest as the result of a failure to meet liability for the tax to be paid on our past profits which we a non-vesting condition that is within the control of either the recognise in our financial statements.
We believe the estimates, group or the counterparty, this must be accounted for as a assumptions and judgements are reasonable but this can involve cancellation.
The group is currently assessing the potential impact complex issues which may take a number of years to resolve.
The of this amendment upon the results and net assets of the group.
final determination of prior year tax liabilities could be different from the estimates reected in the financial statements.
IFRS 3 Revised, Business Combinations effective from 1 April 2010 Deferred tax IFRS 3 Revised amends certain aspects of accounting for business Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement in combinations set out in IFRS 3.
Amendments include the determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, judgement requirement to expense all transaction costs as incurred and the is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets requirement for all payments to acquire a business to be recorded should be recognised with consideration given to the timing and at fair value at the acquisition date, with some contingent level of future taxable income.
payments subsequently re measured at fair value through the income statement.
IFRS 3 Revised is applicable prospectively to Goodwill business combinations effected on or after the effective date.
The The recoverable amount of cash generating units has been group is currently assessing the potential impact of this amendment determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations upon the results and net assets of the group.
require the use of estimates, including managements expectations of future revenue growth, operating costs and profit margins for IFRS 8, Operating Segments effective from 1 April 2009 each cash generating unit.
IFRS 8 requires the identication of operating segments based on internal reporting to the chief operating decision maker and Determination of fair values extends the scope and disclosure requirements of IAS 14 Certain financial instruments such as investments, derivative Segmental Reporting.
The group is currently assessing the impact financial instruments and certain elements of loans and borrowings, of IFRS 8 on its segmental analysis disclosure.
are carried on the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in fair value reected in the income statement.
Fair values are estimated IAS 1 Revised, Presentation of financial statements effective by reference in part to published price quotations and in part by from 1 April 2009 using valuation techniques.
IAS 1 Revised prescribes the basis for presentation of financial statements to ensure comparability both with the entitys financial Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to statements of previous periods and with the financial statements of published standards adopted in the year ended 31 March 2008 other entities.
IAS 1 Revised introduces a number of changes to During the year the following standards, interpretations and the requirements for the presentation of financial statements, amendments to published standards, which are relevant to the which include the following: the separate presentation and owner groups operations became effective and were adopted: and non owner changes in equity: requirement for entities making restatements or reclassications of comparative information to s IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosure IFRS 7 present a balance sheet as at the beginning of the comparative period and optional name changes for certain of the primary Accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2008 35 statements.
The group is currently assessing the impact of the IFRIC 13, Customer loyalty programmes effective from 1 April revision on the presentation of its financial statements.
2009 IFRIC 13 claries that where goods and services are sold together Amendment to IAS 23, Borrowing Costs effective from 1 April with a customer loyalty incentive, the arrangement is a multiple 2009 element arrangement and the consideration receivable from the The amendment to IAS 23 eliminates the option to expense customer should be allocated between the components of the borrowing costs attributable to the acquisition, construction or arrangement in proportion to their fair values.
The group has production of a qualifying asset as incurred.
As a result, the group assessed the impact of this interpretation and has concluded it is will be required to capitalise such borrowing costs as part of the not likely to have a significant impact on the groups financial cost of that asset.
The group is currently assessing the impact of the statements.
amendment on the results and net assets of the group.
IFRIC 14, Dened benefit assets and minimum funding IAS 27 Revised, Consolidated and separate financial statements requirements effective from 1 April 2008 effective from 1 April 2010 IFRIC 14 provides guidance on assessing the limit in IAS 19, IAS 27 Revised requires the effects of all transactions with non Employee Benets, on the amount of surplus that can be controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change recognised as an asset.
It also explains how the pension asset or in control.
Such transactions will no longer result in goodwill or liability may be affected by a contractual minimum funding gains or losses being recorded.
IAS 27 Revised also species that requirement.
The group has assessed the impact of this when control is lost, any remaining interest should be re measured interpretation and has concluded it is not likely to have a significant to fair value and a gain or loss recorded through the income impact on the groups financial statements.
The group has assessed the impact of this interpretation and concluded it is not likely to have a significant impact on the groups financial statements.
IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements effective from 1 April 2008 IFRIC 12 addresses the accounting by operators of public-private service concession arrangements.
The group has assessed the impact of this interpretation and has concluded it is not likely to have a significant impact on the groups financial statements.
36 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2008 Accounting policies
