Financial statements Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 33 Accounting policies General information Foreign currency translation Caledonia Investments plc is an investment trust company domiciled Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange in the United Kingdom and incorporated in England, under the ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities Companies Acts 1908 to 1917.
The address of its registered office is denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are Cayzer House, 30 Buckingham Gate, London SW1E 6NN.
The ordinary translated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling shares of the company are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the at the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on New Zealand Exchange.
translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in foreign currency are translated to the functional currency using the which Caledonia operates.
exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and These financial statements were authorised for issue by the liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value directors on 29 May 2008.
In the current year, the group has adopted are translated to the functional currency at foreign exchange rates ruling IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, which is effective for annual at the dates the fair value was determined.
reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007, and the related Assets and liabilities of the groups overseas operations are amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
The impact measured using their functional currency, being the currency of the of the adoption of IFRS 7 and the changes to IAS 1 has been to expand the primary economic environment in which they operate.
disclosures provided in these financial statements regarding the groups On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the groups overseas financial instruments and management of capital note 22.
At the date operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average and Interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial exchange rates for the period unless exchange rates fluctuate statements, were in issue but not yet effective: significantly.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the groups foreign exchange translation reserve.
Such IFRS 8 Operating Segments exchange differences are recognised in the income statement in the IFRIC 12 Service Concession Agreements period in which the operation is sold.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity IFRIC 14 The limit of a defined benefit asset, minimum funding and translated at the closing rate at the balance sheet date.
Investments The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms financial statements of the group except for additional segment require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by disclosures when IFRS 8 comes into effect on 1 January 2009 and the the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, excluding possible restriction of defined benefit pension assets when IFRIC 14 transaction costs.
comes into effect on 1 January 2008.
Investments held as part of the groups business of investing in financial assets are designated as measured at fair value through profit Significant accounting policies or loss in both the consolidated financial statements and the company Basis of accounting financial statements.
Other investments held by subsidiaries are These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with designated as available for sale in the consolidated financial statements.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in Other investments in subsidiaries held by the company are accounted for the EU and therefore the group financial statements comply with Article 4 at cost in the financial statements of the company.
IFRS comprise accounting standards issued by Investments designated as held at fair value through profit or loss the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and its predecessor or as available for sale are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair body as well as interpretations issued by the International Financial value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the value of investments Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC and its predecessor body.
designated as held at fair value through profit or loss, including foreign Caledonia is an investment trust company.
However, because it exchange movements, are included in net profit or loss for the period.
For holds majority stakes and therefore has the power to control, it is required available for sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair to prepare group accounts that consolidate the results of such value are recognised directly in equity until the investment is disposed of investments.
In order to present information that is comparable with or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss other investment trust companies, Caledonia also publishes financial previously recognised in equity is included in the net profit or loss for the statements of the company, which include investments in subsidiaries period.
If, in the subsequent period, the fair value of the available for sale regarded as part of the companys investing business at fair value.
investments, for which impairment was previously recognised, increases The financial statements have been prepared on an historical cost in value, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement.
basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments and Quoted investments are valued at bid price or the last traded price properties.
The principal accounting policies are set out below.
when a bid price is not available.
Unquoted investments are valued using recognised valuation methodologies, based on the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Guidelines, which reflect the amount for which an asset could be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing parties on an arms length basis.
The portfolio valuation methodology is detailed on page 64.
Distributions from investment limited partnerships are treated as disposal proceeds or income in accordance with the nature of the distribution.
Any surplus capital distributions after repaying any partners loans and capital are treated as realised gains.
34 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 Financial statements Accounting policies Income Employee benefits Dividends receivable on equity shares are recognised as revenue when Pension schemes the shareholders right to receive payment has been established, Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense as normally the ex-dividend date.
Where no ex-dividend date is available, they fall due.
dividends receivable on or before the period end are treated as revenue For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is for the period.
Provision is made for any dividends not expected to determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial be received.
valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains The fixed returns on debt securities, loans and non-equity shares and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised on an effective interest rate basis, which is the rate that are recognised outside of the income statement and are presented in the exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected statement of recognised income and expense.
life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the For trading subsidiaries, revenue comprises the fair value of the sale benefits are already vested and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line of goods and services, net of value-added tax, rebates and discounts and basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
after eliminating sales within the group.
Sales of goods are recognised The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet when goods are delivered and title has passed.
Sales of services are represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered, for unrecognised past service cost and as reduced by the fair value of by reference to completion of the specific transaction, assessed on the scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past basis of the actual service provided as a proportion of the total services service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in to be provided.
future contributions to the plan.
The companys share of net income from investment limited Profit-sharing and bonus plans partnerships is recognised as revenue when received.
The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and profitWhere uncertainty arises over the collectability of an amount sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration the profit already included in income, the uncollectible amount or the amount in attributable to the companys shareholders after certain adjustments.
respect of which the recovery has ceased to be probable, is recognised The group recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where as an expense.
When the uncertainty over collectability is removed, there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
normally on receipt, the income is recognised in the income statement.
Share-based payments Expenses The group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain All expenses are accounted for on an accrual basis.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair acquisition of an investment designated as held at fair value through value at the date of grant and the fair value is expensed on a straight-line profit or loss or expenses of an aborted acquisition or disposal of an basis over the vesting period, based on the groups estimate of shares investment are presented as transaction costs and expenses of disposal that will eventually vest.
of an investment are deducted from the disposal proceeds.
Where employees of a subsidiary are granted rights to the equity instruments of its parent as consideration for the services provided to the Taxation subsidiary, the subsidiary recognises an equity settled share-based The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and payment transaction expense with a corresponding increase recognised deferred tax.
in equity representing a contribution from the parent.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the An employee share trust is used for distributing option shares and period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income deferred bonus awards to employees under Caledonias share statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are remuneration schemes.
The trustee purchases shares with money lent taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that interest free by Caledonia and transfers shares to participating employees are never taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is on receipt of the requisite consideration or calling of awards.
calculated using tax rates that were applicable at the balance sheet date.
The transactions the employee share trust undertakes are Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on considered to be performed by the trust as an agent for Caledonia.
The differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the transactions of the employee share trust are included in the separate financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the financial statements of the parent company and, following the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance requirements of SIC 12, in the consolidated financial statements as if they sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable arose in that company.
Own shares held by the employee share trust as at temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the the balance sheet date are accounted for as if they were treasury shares.
extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Investment trust National Insurance on share option scheme gains and companies that have approval as such under section 842 of the Income deferred bonus awards and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 are not liable for taxation on capital gains.
National Insurance contributions payable on the exercise of certain The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each employee share options at the date of exercise and deferred bonus balance sheet date and adjusted to the extent that it is probable that awards at the date of call have been charged as an expense spread over sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset the respective vesting periods.
The charge is based on the difference to be recovered.
between the market value of the underlying shares at the balance sheet date and the exercise price for share options or nil for deferred bonus Dividend distribution awards and calculated at the latest enacted National Insurance Dividends are recognised in the period in which they are appropriately contributions rate.
authorised and no longer at the discretion of the entity.
For interim dividends, this will normally mean the date on which they are paid and, for final dividends, the date on which they are approved in general meeting.
Financial statements Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 35 Capital reserve Inventories The company maintains a capital reserve, which it is prohibited from Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost distributing by virtue of its articles of association.
The following items are comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and transferred into the capital reserve from profit or loss: those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated using the first-in, Gains and losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss first-out method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling Gains and losses on derivatives used to hedge the fair value price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in of investments marketing, selling and distribution.
Properties that are held for sale in the ordinary course of business Expenses and finance costs incurred directly in relation to the or are being developed for future sale are classified as inventories.
capital transactions Receivables Taxation on items recognised in the capital reserve.
Receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their Property, plant and equipment nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated irrecoverable amounts.
depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Cash and cash equivalents Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents than land or properties under construction, over their estimated useful are short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases: known amounts of cash and that are subject to an insignificant risk of Property 25-40 years changes in value.
Plant 10-15 years Borrowings Equipment 3-8 years Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are term of the relevant lease.
accounted for on an accrual basis to the income statement using the The gain or loss on the disposal or retirement of an asset is effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
The effective interest method allocates the interest expense over the life of the instrument so as to reflect a constant return on the Investment property carrying amount of the liability.
Investment property, which is property held to earn rentals and or for Borrowings include a component of the companys deferred capital appreciation, is stated at its fair value at the balance sheet date.
ordinary shares and preference shares in subsidiaries held by third parties Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment that fall under the definition of financial liabilities under IAS 32. property are included in the income statement for the period in which they arise.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the company has Intangible assets Brands, trademarks, computer software and customer relationships a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it Brands, trademarks, computer software and customer relationships is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle acquired by the group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate and impairment losses.
Where such items are not deemed to have an of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet indefinite life, amortisation is expensed on a straight-line basis over their date and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Leasing Goodwill Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
acquisition over the groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable All other leases are classified as operating leases.
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or Lessor jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at over the term of the relevant lease.
Initial direct costs incurred in least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying and is not subsequently reversed.
amount of the leased asset and recognised on a straight-line basis.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the Lessee attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the group profit or loss on disposal.
at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease Impairment of assets payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The At each balance sheet date, the group reviews the carrying amounts of corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve indication exists, an impairment loss is recognised for the amount by a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount, if any.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, intangible a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
36 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 Financial statements Accounting policies Share capital Associates Equity instruments issued by the company are recorded as the proceeds An associate is an entity over which the group is in a position to exercise received, net of direct issue costs.
significant influence, but not control or joint control, through the financial Where any group company and the Caledonia Investments plc and operating policy decisions of the investee entity.
Employee Share Trust purchases the companys equity share capital or the As Caledonia is an investment trust company, and its investments company buys shares into treasury, the consideration paid, including any held in associates are designated as held at fair value through profit or directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted loss, the provisions of IAS 28 Investments in Associates do not apply.
from equity attributable to the companys equity holders until the shares Such investments are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value are cancelled or transferred.
Where such shares are subsequently recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they occur.
transferred, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable No other group company held investments in associates.
incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is Joint ventures included in equity attributable to the companys equity holders.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is the subject of joint control.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting As Caledonia is an investment trust company, and its interests in Derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date a contract is entered joint ventures are designated as held at fair value through profit or loss, into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
the provisions of IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures do not apply.
Such Hedge accounting is not applied.
Changes in the fair value of interests are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised derivative financial instruments are recognised in the income statement in profit or loss in the period in which they occur.
However, the provisions as they arise.
of IAS 31 do apply to interests in joint ventures held by other companies Segment reporting in the group, as set out below.
A segment is a distinguishable component of the group that is engaged The results and assets and liabilities of joint ventures held by either in providing products or services business segment, or in subsidiaries are incorporated in these financial statements using the providing products or services within a particular economic environment equity method of accounting, except when classified as held for sale.
geographical segment, which is subject to risks and rewards that are Interests in joint ventures are carried in the balance sheet at cost as different from those of other segments.
adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the groups share of net assets Basis of consolidation of the joint ventures, less any impairment in the value of individual Subsidiaries investments.
Losses of the joint ventures in excess of the groups interest The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements in those joint ventures are not recognised.
of the company and entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the groups share of the made up to the balance sheet date.
Control is achieved where the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the joint ventures at the date company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency in the cost of of the investee entity so as to obtain economic benefits from its activities.
acquisition below the groups share of the fair values of the identifiable On acquisition, the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent net assets at the date of acquisition is credited in profit or loss in the liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at fair values at the date of period of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the Where a group company transacts with joint ventures of the group, identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in in the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets the relevant joint ventures.
Losses may provide evidence of an acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income impairment of the asset transferred, in which case appropriate provision statement in the period of acquisition.
The interest of minority is made for impairment.
shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority interest in excess of the minority interest are allocated against the interests of the parent except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the period are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in line with those used by the group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
