64 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 Other information Portfolio valuation methodology Investments are measured at the directors estimate of fair value at the Enterprise value is normally determined using one of the following reporting date, in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: valuation methodologies: Recognition and Measurement.
Fair value is the amount for which an Price of recent investment asset could be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing parties in Where the investment being valued was made recently, its cost will an arms length transaction.
generally provide a good indication of fair value.
Where there has been any recent investment in the investee company, the price of that Quoted investments investment will provide a basis of the valuation.
Where the price at which Investments quoted in an active market are valued at their bid price on a third party has invested is being considered as the basis of valuation, the reporting date.
When a bid price is unavailable, the price of the most the background to the transaction will be taken into account to indicate recent transaction will normally be used.
whether or not the price was representative of the fair value at the time.
This methodology is likely to be appropriate only for a limited period after Unquoted investments the date of the relevant transaction.
The period will depend on the Unquoted investments are valued by applying an appropriate valuation specific circumstances of each investment, but one year is usually applied.
technique, which makes maximum use of market-based information, Earnings multiple is consistent with models generally used by market participants and is This methodology involves the application of an earnings multiple to the applied consistently from period to period, except where a change would maintainable earnings of the business being valued.
This methodology is result in a better estimation of fair value.
Unquoted investments are likely to be appropriate for an investment in an established business with grouped into direct and fund investments.
an identifiable stream of continuing earnings that can be considered Unquoted direct investments to be maintainable.
Unquoted direct investments have characteristics similar to private Maintainable earnings are taxed at the standard tax rate.
Generally, equity investments, in that the value is generally crystallised through the the latest historical accounts are used unless reliable forecast results for sale or flotation of the entire business, rather than the sale of an individual the current year are available.
The earnings multiple used is determined instrument.
Valuations of such investments are based upon the by reference to market-based multiples appropriate for the business and International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines, correlate to the period and calculation of earnings of the company being using the following model: valued.
In determining an appropriate earnings multiple, reference may be made to a single comparator company, or a number of companies, Determine the enterprise value using an appropriate valuation or the earnings multiple of a quoted stock market sector or sub-sector methodology and adjust for surplus assets, excess or unrecorded where there are similar business activities, markets served, size, liabilities and other relevant factors.
geography and applicable tax rate.
Deduct any financial instruments ranking ahead of the highest ranking Net assets instrument held by the company.
The net assets methodology involves deriving the value of a business by Apply a marketability discount where appropriate to give the net reference to the fair value of its net assets.
This is likely to be appropriate attributable enterprise value.
Such a marketability discount relates for a business whose value derives mainly from the underlying value of its to the investment rather than the underlying business and reflects the assets rather than its earnings, such as property holding companies and compensation that willing buyers will demand for the risk arising from investment businesses.
It may also be appropriate for a business that is the lack of marketability.
Factors that will be considered in determining not making an adequate return on assets and for which a greater value the marketability discount are the closeness to a realisation event, the can be realised by liquidating the business and selling its assets.
Third investors influence over the timing of realisation and the difficulty and party valuations may be used to give the fair value of a certain asset or risk of actions required to put the business into a saleable condition.
a rebuttable presumption that a 30% discount is to be applicable to all Unquoted fund investments unquoted direct investments.
This presumption may be rebutted if the Unquoted funds investments refer to participations in collective available evidence and consideration of the foregoing factors indicate investment vehicles.
that a different marketability discount would be appropriate or that no Where the valuation reported by the funds manager represents the marketability discount should be applied.
Where a discount is applied, amount at which the interest in the fund could be exchanged in an arms it will normally fall in the range of 10% to 30%.
length transaction at the reporting date, this value is used in estimating Apportion the net attributable enterprise value between the relevant the fair value of the investment.
If the valuation reported by the funds financial instruments according to their rankings and allocate to the manager is not available at the reporting date, the latest valuation is used companys holding in each of these financial instruments.
and may be adjusted to reflect changes or events subsequent to the publication date.
Given the uncertainties inherent in estimating the fair value of unquoted If the funds manager does not report a value at which an arms direct investments, a degree of caution is applied in exercising judgments length transaction could occur, then the value of the investment in the and making the necessary estimates.
fund is determined by applying valuation techniques to the funds underlying investments.
