Overview Business review Financial statements and notes 28 Report of the independent auditor 29 Accounting policies 32 Group income statement 33 Statement of changes in equity 34 Group balance sheet 35 Company balance sheet 36 Group cash flow statement 37 Company cash flow statement 38 Notes to the financial statements 60 Notice of Annual General Meeting 65 Shareholder information 66 Candover and Advisers 67 Form of proxy Notice of Annual General Meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT The biographies of Gerry Grimstone, Antony provided that the authorities contained in AND REQUIRES YOUR Hichens, Richard Stone and Jan Oosterveld paragraphs a and b shall expire on the IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
appear on pages 12 and 13. date of the next Annual General Meeting If you are in any doubt as to what action to of the Company after the passing of this take, you should consult your stockbroker, 7 Re-appointment of auditor resolution or, if earlier, on 30th June, 2010 solicitor, accountant or other appropriate To re-appoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as save that the Company may before such independent professional adviser authorised auditors of the Company.
expiry make an offer or agreement which under the Financial Services and Markets would or might require relevant securities Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise 8 Remuneration of auditor to be allotted after such expiry and the transferred all your shares in Candover To authorise the directors to agree the directors may allot equity securities in Investments plc, please forward this auditors remuneration.
pursuance of such an offer or agreement document and the accompanying Form of as if the authority conferred hereby had Proxy to the person through whom the sale Special business not expired.
or transfer was effected, for transmission to 9 Increase of authorised share capital the purchaser or transferee.
That the authorised share capital of the 11 Authority to disapply pre-emption rights Company be increased from 7,250,000 That subject to the passing of the previous The directors consider that all the proposals to 9,250,000 by the creation of 8,000,000 raesolution the directors be and are hereby to be considered at the Annual General ordinary shares of 25p each identical empowered pursuant to section 95 1 of the Meeting are in the best interests of the and ranking pari passu with the existing Companies Act 1985 the Act : Company and its members as a whole.
The authorised but unissued shares of 25p each directors unanimously recommend that in the capital of the Company.
a to allot equity securities as defined in shareholders vote in favour of all proposed section 94 of the Act for cash pursuant resolutions as they intend to do in respect of 10 Authority to allot to the authority conferred by the previous their own beneficial holdings.
That the directors be and are hereby resolution: and generally and unconditionally authorised to b to sell relevant securities as defined NOTICE is hereby given that the Annual exercise all powers of the Company to allot in section 94 5 of the Act held by the General Meeting of Candover Investments relevant securities within the meaning of Company as treasury shares for cash, plc the Company will be held at Founders section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Hall, 1 Cloth Fair, London EC1A 7HT on Act : in either case as if sub-section 1 of Wednesday, 13th May, 2009 at 12 noon for section 89 of the Act did not apply to any the purposes set out below: a up to an aggregate nominal amount of such allotment or sale: provided that the 1,814,881: and power conferred by paragraphs a and b It is intended to propose resolutions 11, b comprising equity securities as should be limited to the allotment of equity 12 and 13 as special resolutions.
All defined in section 94 of the Act up to securities for cash and the sale of treasury other resolutions will be proposed as an aggregate nominal amount when shares for cash: ordinary resolutions.
added to any allotments made under a above of 3,629,763 in connection i in connection with or pursuant to an Ordinary business with or pursuant to an offer or invitation offer or invitation but in the case of the 1 Report and accounts by way of a rights issue in favour of authority granted under resolution 10 b, To receive the audited financial statements ordinary shareholders in proportion as by way of a rights issue only in favour of for the year ended 31st December, 2008, nearly as practicable to the respective holders of ordinary shares in proportion together with the reports of the directors and numbers of ordinary shares held by them as nearly as practicable to the respective the auditors therein.
on the record date for such allotment numbers of ordinary shares held by them and holders of any other class of equity on the record date for such allotment 2 Directors remuneration report securities entitled to participate therein and holders of any other class of equity To approve the directors remuneration or if the directors consider it necessary, securities entitled to participate therein or report contained in the audited financial as permitted by the rights of those if the directors consider it necessary, as statements.
securities but subject to such exclusions permitted by the rights of those securities or other arrangements as the directors but subject to such exclusions or other 3-6 Re-election and election of directors may consider necessary or appropriate arrangements as the directors may To re-elect the following directors, who to deal with fractional entitlements, consider necessary or appropriate to are retiring: treasury shares, record dates or legal, deal with fractional entitlements, treasury 3 Mr Gerry Grimstone: regulatory or practical difficulties which shares, record dates or legal, regulatory 4 Mr Antony Hichens: may arise under the laws of, or the or practical difficulties which may arise 5 Mr Richard Stone.
requirements of any regulatory body or under the laws of or the requirements of 6 To elect Mr Jan Oosterveld, who was stock exchange in any territory or any any regulatory body or stock exchange appointed since the last Annual General other matter whatsoever: in any territory or any other matter Meeting in May 2008. whatsoever: and Candover 60 Report and accounts 2008 ii in the case of the authority granted ii that stipulated by article 5 1 of the EU under resolution 10 a above, and otherwise Buyback and Stabilisation Regulation than pursuant to paragraph i of this 2003 No.
2273 2003 : resolution, up to an aggregate nominal d unless previously renewed, revoked or amount of 273,207: varied, this authority will last from the date of this Annual General Meeting until the and provided further that the power next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, conferred by paragraphs a and b shall until 30th June, 2010 : and expire at the conclusion of the next Annual e under this authority the Company may General Meeting of the Company after the make a contract to purchase ordinary passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on shares which would or might be executed 30th June, 2010 save that the Company wholly or partly after the expiry of this may before such expiry make an offer or authority, and may make purchases of agreement which would or might require ordinary shares pursuant to such contract equity securities to be allotted, or treasury as if this authority had not expired.
shares to be sold, after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities or sell 13 Notice period for general meetings treasury shares in pursuance of any such That a general meeting other than an Annual offer or agreement as if the power conferred General Meeting may be called on not less hereby had not expired.
12 Purchase of own shares by By order of the Board the Company That the Company be and is hereby Philip Price authorised, generally and unconditionally, Company Secretary for the purposes of section 166 of the 20th March, 2009 Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of its own ordinary shares, on such terms and in such manner as the directors may from time to time determine, and where such ordinary shares are held as treasury shares, the Company may use them for the purpose of its employee share schemes: provided that: a the Company may not buy more than 3,264,609 ordinary shares, equal to 14.99% of the ordinary shares not including shares held in treasury issued at the date of the 2008 audited financial statements: b the minimum price that the Company may pay for each share is 25p which amount shall be exclusive of expenses, if any: c the maximum price that the Company may pay for each ordinary share is an amount equal to the higher of i 5% over the average of the mid-market quotations for the ordinary shares of the Company as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange plc for the five business days immediately before the day on which such share is contracted to be purchased and Candover 61 Report and accounts 2008 Overview Business review Financial statements and notes Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes You may appoint more than one proxy Alternatively, subject to the provisions of 1.
Entitlement to attend and vote provided each proxy is appointed to the Companys articles of association, you Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the exercise rights attached to different shares.
may register your proxy appointment and Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, You may not appoint more than one proxy instructions on-line by visiting the website the Company specifies that in order to to exercise rights attached to any one share.
of our registrars, Capita Registrars, at www.
have the right to attend, speak and vote To appoint more than one proxy, use the capitashareportal.
In order to register at the Meeting and also for the purpose procedures set out in these notes and the your vote on-line you will need first to of determining how many votes a person notes to the proxy form.
register on the Share Portal, if you have not entitled to attend and vote may cast, a already done so.
Full instructions on how person must be entered on the Companys If you select the Discretionary option to use this service are available at www.
register of members at 6.00 pm on 11th or if no voting indication is given on the capitashareportal.
This website can May, 2009: or if this Meeting is adjourned, proxy form, your proxy will vote or abstain be used only for the purpose stated above, at 6.00 pm on the date which is two days from voting at his or her discretion.
A vote and not for sending any other document or before the adjourned meeting.
Changes to withheld is not a vote in law, which means information.
entries on the register of members after this that any such vote will not be counted in time shall be disregarded in determining the the calculation of votes for or against the 4.
Appointment of proxies through CREST rights of any person to attend, speak and resolution.
Your proxy will vote or abstain CREST members who wish to appoint a vote at the Meeting.
from voting as he or she thinks fit in relation proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST to any other matter which is put before electronic proxy appointment service 2.
Appointment of proxies the Meeting.
may do so for the Meeting and any If you are a member of the Company at the adjournment s thereof by utilising the time set out in note 1 above, you are entitled 3.
Appointment of proxy using the procedures described in the CREST to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of proxy form Manual, subject to the provisions of your rights to attend, speak and vote at the The notes to the proxy form explain how to the Companys Articles of Association.
Meeting and you should have received a direct your proxy to vote on each resolution CREST personal members or other proxy form.
You can only appoint a proxy or to withhold their vote.
To appoint a proxy CREST sponsored members, and those using the procedures set out in these notes using the proxy form, the form must be: CREST members who have appointed and the notes to the proxy form.
completed and signed: a voting service provider s should refer sent or delivered to Capita Registrars to their CREST sponsor or voting service If you are not a member of the Company at The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, provider s, who will be able to take the as described in note 1 but you have been Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU: and appropriate action on their behalf.
nominated by a member of the Company received by Capita Registrars no later to enjoy information rights, you do not have than 12 noon on 11th May, 2009.
In order for a proxy appointment made a right to appoint any proxies under the by means of CREST to be valid, the procedures set out in this Appointment of In the case of a member which is a appropriate CREST message a CREST proxies section.
Please read the section company, the proxy form must be executed Proxy Instruction must be made, properly Nominated persons in note 10 below.
under its common seal or signed on its authenticated in accordance with Euroclear behalf by an officer of the company or an UK & Ireland Limiteds EUI specifications, A proxy does not need to be a member of attorney for the company, stating their and must contain the information required the Company but will need to attend the capacity e. g. director, secretary.
for such instructions, as described in the Meeting in order to represent you.
The message, regardless how to appoint the Chairman of the Meeting Any power of attorney or other authority of whether it constitutes the appointment of or another person as your proxy using the under which the proxy form is signed or a proxy or an amendment to the instructions proxy form are set out in the notes to the a duly certified copy of such power or given to a previously appointed proxy, must proxy form.
If you wish your proxy to speak authority must be included with the be transmitted so as to be received by the on your behalf at the Meeting you will need proxy form.
issuers agent ID: RA10 by 12 noon on to appoint your own choice of proxy not 11th May, 2009.
For this purpose, the time the Chairman of the Meeting and give your of receipt will be taken to be the time as instructions directly to them.
determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After 12 noon on 11th May, 2009 any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
Candover 62 Report and accounts 2008 CREST members and, where applicable, Where you have appointed a proxy using 8.
Corporate representatives their CREST sponsors or voting service the proxy form contained in this document In order to facilitate voting by corporate providers should note that EUI does not and would like to change the instruction representatives at the Meeting, make available special procedures in using another proxy form, please contact arrangements will be put in place at the CREST for any particular messages.
Normal Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Meeting so that: system timings and limitations will therefore Beckenham Road, Beckenham, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Kent BR3 4TU.
i if a corporate member has appointed the Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate CREST member concerned to take or, if If you submit more than one valid proxy representative with instructions to vote on the CREST member is a CREST personal appointment in respect of your entire voting a poll in accordance with the directions member or sponsored member or has entitlement, the appointment received of all the other corporate representatives appointed a voting service provider s, to last before the latest time for the receipt of for that member at the Meeting, then, on procure that his CREST sponsor or voting proxies will take precedence.
Please also a poll, these corporate representatives service provider s take s such action see the notes to the proxy form for further will be requested to give voting directions as shall be necessary to ensure that a information.
to the Chairman and the Chairman will message is transmitted by means of the vote or withhold a vote as corporate CREST system by any particular time.
Termination of proxy appointments representative in accordance with those this connection, CREST members and, In order to revoke a proxy instruction you directions: and where applicable, their CREST sponsors will need to inform the Company by sending or voting service providers are referred, in written notice clearly stating your intention ii if more than one corporate representative particular, to those sections of the CREST to revoke your proxy appointment to Capita for the same corporate member attends Manual concerning practical limitations of Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham the Meeting but the corporate member the CREST system and timings.
In the has not appointed the Chairman of the case of a member which is a company, the Meeting as its corporate representative, The Company may treat as invalid a CREST revocation notice must be executed under a designated corporate representative Proxy Instruction in the circumstances its common seal or signed on its behalf by should be nominated, from those set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the an officer of the company or an attorney for corporate representatives who attend, Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. the company.
Any power of attorney or any to vote on a poll and the other corporate other authority under which the revocation representatives should give voting 5.
Appointment of proxy by joint members notice is signed or a duly certified copy of directions to that designated corporate In the case of joint holders, where more than such power or authority must be included representative.
one of the joint holders purports to appoint with the revocation notice.
a proxy, only the appointment submitted Corporate members are referred to by the most senior holder will be accepted.
The revocation notice must be received by the guidance issued by the Institute of Seniority is determined by the order in which Capita Registrars no later than 12 noon on Chartered Secretaries and Administrators the names of the joint holders appear in the 11th May, 2009. on proxies and corporate representatives Companys register of members in respect http: www.
uk for further details of the joint holding the first-named being If you attempt to revoke your proxy of this procedure.
The guidance includes the most senior.
appointment but the revocation is received a sample form of representation letter to after the time specified then, subject to appoint the Chairman of the Meeting as a 6.
Changing proxy instructions the paragraph directly below, your proxy corporate representative as described in To change your proxy instructions simply appointment will remain valid.
submit a new proxy appointment using the methods set out above and set out in the Appointment of a proxy does not preclude 9.
Issued shares and total voting rights notes to the proxy form.
Note that the cutyou from attending the Meeting and voting As at 19th March, 2009 being the last off times for receipt of proxy appointments in person.
If you have appointed a proxy practicable day prior to the publication of see above also apply in relation to and attend the Meeting in person, your this notice the Companys issued share amended instructions: any amended proxy proxy appointment will automatically be capital comprised 21,856,615 ordinary appointment received after the relevant terminated.
shares of 25p each of which 78,035 cut-off time will be disregarded.
are held as treasury shares, leaving a balance of 21,778,580 ordinary shares with voting rights.
Candover 63 Report and accounts 2008 Overview Business review Financial statements and notes Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 10.
Nominated persons circumstance connected with an auditor of If you are a person who has been nominated the Company appointed for financial years under section 146 of the Companies beginning on or after 1st January 2009 Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a ceasing to hold office since the previous Nominated Person : meeting at which annual accounts and You may have a right, under an reports were laid in accordance with section agreement between you and the member 437 of the Companies Act 2006 that the of the Company who has nominated you members propose to raise at the Annual to have information rights a Relevant General Meeting.
The Company may not Member, to be appointed or to have require the members requesting any such someone else appointed as proxy for website publication to pay its expenses in the Meeting.
complying with sections 527 or 528 of the If you either do not have such a right or if 2006 Act.
Where the Company is required you have such a right but do not wish to to place a statement on a website under exercise it, you may have a right under section 527 of the 2006 Act, it must an agreement between you and the forward the statement to the Companys Relevant Member to give instructions to auditor not later than the time when it the Relevant Member as to the exercise makes the statement available on the of voting rights.
The business which may be Your main point of contact in terms of dealt with at the Annual General Meeting your investment in the Company remains includes any statement that the Company the Relevant Member or, perhaps, your has been required under section 527 of custodian or broker and you should the Companies Act 2006 to publish on continue to contact them and not the a website.
Company regarding any changes or queries relating to your personal details 12.
Communication and your interest in the Company You may not use any electronic address including any administrative matters.
within the meaning of Section 333 4 of The only exception to this is where the the Companies Act 2006 provided in Company expressly requests a response this Notice of Meeting or in any related from you.
document to communicate with the The statements in notes 2 to 7 above Company for any purposes other than concerning the rights of members in those expressly stated.
relation to the appointment of proxies do not apply to Nominated Persons.
Documents on display Those rights can only be exercised by Copies of the letters of appointment of the members of the Company.
non-executive directors of the Company will be available for inspection at the Companys 11.
Website publication of audit concerns registered office at 20 Old Bailey, London Shareholders should note that it is possible EC4M 7LN during normal business hours that, pursuant to requests made by on any weekday Saturdays and English members of the Company under section public holidays excepted from 20th March, 527 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 2009 until the close of the Annual General Act, the Company may be required to Meeting and at the place of that Meeting publish on a website a statement setting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during out any matter relating to i the audit of the Meeting: the Companys accounts including the Auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting for the financial year beginning 1st January 2009: or ii any Candover 64 Report and accounts 2008
