Overview Business review Financial statements and notes 28 Report of the independent auditor 29 Accounting policies 32 Group income statement 33 Statement of changes in equity 34 Group balance sheet 35 Company balance sheet 36 Group cash flow statement 37 Company cash flow statement 38 Notes to the financial statements 60 Notice of Annual General Meeting 65 Shareholder information 66 Candover and Advisers 67 Form of proxy Accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted As described in the Chairmans statement The significant accounting policies are set in the preparation of these financial on page one the current economic out below: statements are set out below.
These environment has weakened Candovers policies have been consistently applied to financial position.
The Group has reported Investment trust SORP all the periods presented, except for the a significant drop in net asset value and the Where presentational guidance set out in presentation change noted on the face of worsening economic background as well as the Statement of Recommended Practice the income statement.
volatile financial markets may lead to further SORP for investment trusts, issued by declines in valuation.
The directors consider the Association of Investment Companies Basis of preparation that the outlook presents significant AIC in January 2003 revised December The Group and Company have challenges in terms of realising existing 2005, is consistent with the requirements prepared their financial statements investments, the valuation of investments of IFRSs, the directors have sought to under International Financial Reporting and the availability of funding to meet the prepare the financial statements on a Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Groups commitments.
Whilst the directors basis compliant with the SORP.
IFRSs comprise standards have initiated measures to preserve cash, have issued a revised SORP on financial and interpretations approved by the reduce the cost base and secure additional statements of investment trust companies International Accounting Standards Board finance, these circumstances create and venture capital trusts effective for IASB and the International Financial material uncertainties over future results and periods commencing 1st January, 2009 Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC cash flows.
which is not anticipated to have a material as adopted in the European Union as at impact on the financial statements.
As explained in the Chairmans statement, the directors have concluded that the Management expenses and The financial statements have been Company is not currently in a position to finance costs prepared on the historical cost basis of make any further commitment to invest Management expenses and finance costs accounting, except for measurement at fair alongside the 2008 Fund beyond its existing have been allocated 80% to capital and value of certain assets.
As referred to 20% to revenue.
in the Chairmans statement, the Company Going concern is in discussions with the Limited Partners Basis of consolidation Under the Combined Code and applicable of the Candover 2008 Fund regarding a The consolidated financial statements regulation the directors are required to restructuring of the Fund, which is likely incorporate the financial statements of the satisfy themselves that it is reasonable to include a temporary suspension of the Company and entities controlled by the to presume that the Company is a going investment period.
Although the precise Company its subsidiary undertakings concern.
outcome cannot be predicted with certainty, made up to the balance sheet date.
Control the directors have a reasonable expectation is achieved where the Company has the The Groups business activities, together that these discussions will result in a power to govern the financial and operating with the factors likely to affect its future satisfactory agreement being reached with policies of an portfolio entity so as to obtain development, performance and position, regard to the Candover 2008 Fund.
benefits directly from its activities.
are set out in the Chairmans statement and the operational review on pages one and The Group has retained advisers to assist Revenue three.
The financial position of the Group, its it in negotiations with holders of the US Income arises from investment cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing private placement bonds issued in 2007. management, fees relating to advisory work facilities are described in the financial review These negotiations are designed to provide on investment transactions and interest on page seven.
In addition, note 25 to the the Group with more flexibility in its financing income.
Investment management fees financial statements on page 53 includes arrangements.
The outcome of these are recognised under the accruals basis, the Groups financial risk management negotiations is uncertain.
other fees are recognised in full once a objectives, its capital management policies contractual obligation is created for the and procedures, details of its financial The directors have a reasonable expectation third party and the service provided.
instruments and hedging activities and its that the Group and the Company have exposures to market risk, currency risk, adequate resources to continue as a going Interest income on financial investments, interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and concern for the foreseeable future, having and cash and cash equivalents, is other price risk.
made enquiries and after considering and recognised in the income statement using taking into account the matters described the effective interest rate applicable.
For these reasons, they continue to provision will be made against this income adopt the going concern basis in preparing where there is uncertainty as to its future the annual Report and Accounts.
The requirement or otherwise for a provision is considered in conjunction with the valuation of the related financial investment, the approach to which is stated below.
Candover 29 Report and accounts 2008 Overview Business review Financial statements and notes Accounting policies continued Placement fees Derivative financial instruments Financial investments are recognised in the Pre-paid placement fees incurred in the balance sheet at fair value.
Gains and losses Derivative financial instruments are used by establishment of managed funds are the Group to manage the risk associated on the realisation of financial investments carried as current assets recoverable from are dealt with through the income with foreign currency fluctuations and future management fees receivable and are changes in interest rates on its borrowings.
statement, and taken to the realised capital written off over the anticipated duration of reserve.
Financial investments are not held This is achieved by the use of currency the managed fund.
swaps and interest rate swaps.
All derivative for immediate resale and any gains on realisations are not available for distribution financial instruments are held at fair value.
Share-based payments Where appropriate derivative financial as a dividend.
The difference between the The Group enters into arrangements that fair value of financial investments and cost instruments are designated as fair value are equity-settled share-based payments hedges on inception with the effectiveness to the Group is shown as an unrealised gain with certain employees.
These are or loss in the income statement, and taken tested both at this date and semimeasured at fair value at the date of grant, annually thereafter on a prospective and to the unrealised capital reserve.
which is then recognised in the income retrospective basis.
statement on a straight-line basis over the Investments in subsidiary undertakings are vesting period, based on the estimate of reflected in the Companys accounts at cost Derivative financial instruments are shares that will eventually vest.
The charge recognised initially at fair value on less impairment.
is adjusted at each balance sheet date to the contract date and subsequently reflect the actual number of forfeitures, remeasured to the fair value at each Receivables and payables cancellations and leavers during the period.
Receivables and payables are accounted reporting date.
The fair value of currency The movement in cumulative changes since swaps and interest rate swaps is for at fair value at initial recognition and the previous balance sheet is recognised in thereafter at amortised cost using the determined with reference to future cash the income statement, with a corresponding flows and current interest and exchange effective interest rate method.
Fair value is measured by use rates.
All changes in the fair value of financial of the Black-Scholes model.
instruments are accounted for in the income Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in statement, and taken to the unrealised Property, plant and equipment capital reserve net of any designated hand, deposits held at call with banks, other All property, plant and equipment is stated short-dated listed fixed income securities hedging arrangements which are offset at historical cost less depreciation.
against the movements in the instrument and money market instruments.
Such assets are held-for-trading, with capital being hedged.
The ineffective portion of any Depreciation is calculated to write down fair value hedge is assessed semi-annually gains, losses and fair value movements the cost less residual value of all property, accounted for in the income statement, and and taken to the income statement.
plant and equipment by equal annual Financial assets and liabilities on equity taken to capital reserves due to the fact that instalments over their expected useful such balances are held for future investment commitments lives.
The periods generally applicable are in financial investments.
plant and equipment two to five years and The Groups commitments to fund equity motor vehicles three years.
Leasehold bridges and similar arrangements represent Borrowings improvements are depreciated over the Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are derivative financial instruments in the equity duration of the lease.
The residual value of of portfolio companies and are accounted initially recognised at the fair value of the all assets is assessed annually.
liability, net of direct issue costs.
After for in accordance with the Groups policy on derivative financial instruments.
The fair initial recognition, these are subsequently Financial investments measured at amortised cost using the value of these instruments is determined The directors consider that a substantial by reference to the Groups valuation effective interest method, which is the rate measure of the performance of the Group that exactly discounts the estimated future of the underlying portfolio company, in is assessed through the capital gains and accordance with the Groups policy on cash flows through the expected life of the losses arising from the investment activity of liabilities.
Amortised cost is calculated by financial investments.
Consequently, for measurement taking into account any issue costs and any purposes, financial investments, including discount or premium on settlement.
Finance Deferred tax equity, loan and similar instruments, are Deferred tax is recognised in full, using the costs, including premiums payable on designated at fair value through profit and settlement or redemption and direct issue liability method, on all temporary differences loss, and are valued in compliance with arising between the tax bases of assets costs, are accounted for on an accruals IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition basis to the income statement using the and liabilities and their carrying amounts and Measurement, and the International in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is effective interest method.
Movements in Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation value for currency fluctuations are taken measured using rates of tax that have been Guidelines as recommended by the British enacted or substantively enacted by the to unrealised capital reserves, net of Venture Capital Association, the principles the impact of any designated hedging balance sheet date.
of which are set out on page 11. arrangements.
Candover 30 Report and accounts 2008 Pension costs Deferred tax assets are recognised to the the recognition or otherwise of accrued extent that it is probable that future taxable The Group contributes towards a number income on loan notes and similar of funded defined contribution pension profits will be available against which the instruments granted to portfolio temporary differences can be utilised.
schemes designed to provide retirement companies, which are assessed in benefits for its directors and employees.
conjunction with the overall valuation Due to the Companys status as an The assets of the schemes are held of unlisted financial investments as separately from the Group in independently investment trust, and the intention to noted above continue meeting the conditions required administered funds.
The pension cost the appropriateness of the allocation of charge represents contributions payable by to obtain approval in the foreseeable management expenses between revenue future, the Company has not provided for the Group to the schemes in respect of the and capital, which is based on the split of accounting period.
deferred tax on any capital gains and losses the long-term anticipated return between arising on the revaluation or disposal of revenue and capital of net income Leases investments.
finance costs have been allocated on Leases in which a significant portion of the the same basis as the above, whereas risks and rewards of ownership are retained Foreign currencies movements in the carrying value of Foreign currency transactions are translated by the lessor are classified as operating borrowings and related instruments leases.
Payments made under operating into the functional currency using the have been taken to the unrealised capital exchange rates prevailing at the dates of leases net of any incentives received from reserve as they have been raised to fund the lessor are charged to the income the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains future financial investments and losses resulting from the settlement of statement on a straight-line basis over the the estimated future financial liability period of the lease.
such transactions and from the translation arising from future equity commitments at period-end exchange rates of monetary and guarantees, which is assessed on the Dividends payable assets and liabilities denominated in foreign same basis as the valuation of unlisted currencies are recognised in the income Final dividends are accounted for when they financial investments as noted above are ratified at the Annual General Meeting.
Where exchange differences the recognition of the deferred tax result from the translation into sterling of Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
asset, which is based on reasonable foreign currency resources that are held for expectations on the timing of distributions future financial investments, the gain or loss Critical accounting estimates and to beneficiaries of the employee benefit judgements is accounted for in the income statement, trusts and the availability of future and taken to capital reserves.
The preparation of financial statements taxable profits requires the use of estimates and the impact of changing exchange rates The results and financial position of all assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: the reported period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from closing rate at the date of that balance sheet those estimates.
income and expenses for each income statement are translated at actual The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material exchange rates all resulting exchange differences are adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities relate to: recognised as a separate component of equity.
the valuation of unlisted financial investments held at fair value through The cumulative exchange gains and losses profit and loss, which are valued on the basis noted above, the key areas on foreign currency net investments are accounted for in the income statement of judgement being the adjustments required to normalise sustainable when these operations are disposed.
earnings, the appropriate comparable multiple to apply, and the assessment of control over an exit Candover 31 Report and accounts 2008
