Form of Proxy For use at the Annual General Meeting of Candover Investments plc to be held at 12 noon on Wednesday 13th May, 2009 at Founders Hall, 1 Cloth Fair, London EC1A 7HT.
If you wish to vote at the Annual General Meeting but are unable to attend in person you may appoint a proxy or proxies to act on your behalf either by completing this form or, in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
I We of being a member s of Candover Investments plc, hereby appoint the Chairman of the Meeting or see notes 3, 10 and 11 as my our proxy to exercise all or any of my our rights to attend, speak and vote in respect of my our voting entitlement on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting to be held at 12 noon on Wednesday 13th May, 2009 and at any adjournment thereof.
For the appointment of more than one proxy, please refer to notes 10 and 11.
Please tick here if this proxy appointment is one of multiple appointments being made.
I We direct my our proxy to vote on the resolutions as I we have indicated by marking the appropriate box with an X.
If no indication is given, my our proxy will vote or abstain from voting at his or her discretion and I we authorise my our proxy to vote or abstain from voting as he or she thinks fit in relation to any other matter which is put before the Meeting.
For Against Vote withheld Discretionary Resolution 1 To receive the audited financial statements for the year ended 31st December, 2008 Resolution 2 To approve the directors remuneration report Resolution 3 To re-elect Mr Gerry Grimstone Resolution 4 To re-elect Mr Antony Hichens Resolution 5 To re-elect Mr Richard Stone Resolution 6 To elect Mr Jan Oosterveld Resolution 7 Re-appointment of Auditor Resolution 8 Remuneration of Auditor Resolution 9 Increase of authorised share capital Resolution 10 Authority to allot Resolution 11 Disapplication of pre-emption rights Resolution 12 Purchase of own shares by the Company Resolution 13 Notice period for general meetings Date Signature see notes 8 & 9 Notes 1.
As a member of the Company you are entitled to appoint a 6.
In the case of a member which is a company, this proxy form 11.
To appoint more than one proxy an additional proxy form s proxy to exercise all or any of your rights to attend, speak and must be executed under its common seal or signed on its may be obtained by contacting Capita Registrars or you vote at the Meeting.
You can only appoint a proxy using the behalf by an officer of the company or an attorney for the may photocopy this form.
Please indicate in the box next to procedures set out in these notes and the notes to the Notice company, stating their capacity e. g. director, secretary.
the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to of Annual General Meeting.
Any alteration made to this form of proxy must be initialled.
which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
Appointment of a proxy does not preclude you from attending Any power of attorney or any other authority under which this indicate by ticking the box provided if the proxy instruction the Meeting and voting in person.
If you have appointed a proxy form is signed or a duly certified copy of such power or is one of multiple proxy instructions being given.
All forms proxy or proxies and attend the Meeting in person, your authority must be included with the proxy form.
must be signed and should be returned together in the same proxy appointment s will automatically be terminated.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies envelope.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company using the CREST electronic appointment service may do so 12.
If you submit more than one valid proxy appointment in but will need to attend the Meeting to represent you.
To by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
respect of your entire voting entitlement, the appointment appoint as your proxy a person other than the Chairman To be valid, the appropriate CREST message, regardless received last before the latest time for the receipt of proxies of the meeting, insert their full name in the space provided of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or will take precedence.
If you sign and return this proxy form with no name an amendment to the instructions given to a previously inserted in the space provided above, the Chairman of the appointed proxy, must be transmitted so as to be received by This form, to be valid, must be returned by post, by courier or by Meeting will be deemed to be your proxy.
Where you appoint our agent ID: RA10 by 12 noon on Monday 11th May, 2009. hand together with any power of attorney or other authority under as your proxy someone other than the Chairman, you are 9.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint which it is signed or a notarised copy of such power or a copy responsible for ensuring that they attend the Meeting and holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment certified in accordance with the Powers of Attorney Act are aware of your voting intentions.
If you wish your proxy to submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
1971 or in some other manner approved by the directors to make any comments on your behalf, you will need to appoint Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the Capita Registrars at the address overleaf if by post or otherwise someone other than the Chairman and give them the relevant joint holders appear in the Companys register of members at The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 instructions directly.
in respect of the joint holding the first-named being the most 4TU so as to be received by Capita Registrars by 12 noon on 4.
To direct your proxy how to vote on the resolutions mark senior.
Monday 11th May, 2009. the appropriate box with an X.
To abstain from voting on 10.
If the proxy is being appointed in relation to less than your full a resolution, select the relevant Vote withheld box.
A vote voting entitlement, please enter in the box next to the proxy Only those shareholders registered in the register of members withheld is not a vote in law, which means any such vote will holders name the number of shares in relation to which they of the Company 48 hours prior to the stated commencement not be counted in the calculation of votes for or against the are authorised to act as your proxy.
If left blank or if a number of the Annual General Meeting shall be entitled to attend or resolution.
If you select the Discretionary option or if no voting of shares greater than your actual holding is inserted in such vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of indication is given on the proxy form, your proxy will vote or box your proxy will be deemed to be authorised in respect shares registered in their names at that time Regulation 41 of the abstain from voting at his or her discretion.
Your proxy will of your full voting entitlement or if this proxy form has been Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Changes to entries vote or abstain from voting as he or she thinks fit in relation to issued in respect of a designated account for a shareholder, on the register after 6.00 pm on Monday 11th May, 2009 shall be any other matter which is put before the Meeting.
the full voting entitlement for that designated account.
disregarded in determining the right of any person to attend and 5.
To appoint a proxy using this form, the form must be: vote at the Annual General Meeting.
completed and signed sent or delivered to Capita Registrars at The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU received by Capita Registrars no later than 12 noon on Candover Monday 11th May, 2009.
67 Report and accounts 2008 First fold Second fold BUSINESS REPLY Licence No.
MB122 Capita Registrars Proxies PO Box 25 Beckenham Kent BR3 4BR Third fold and tuck inside Overview Business review Financial statements and notes 01 Chairmans statement 03 Operational review 28 Report of the independent auditor 07 Financial review 29 Accounting policies 08 15 largest investments 32 Group income statement 11 Valuation policy 33 Statement of changes in equity 12 The Board of directors 34 Group balance sheet 14 Report of the directors 35 Company balance sheet 20 Corporate governance 36 Group cash flow statement 25 Directors remuneration report 37 Company cash flow statement 38 Notes to the financial statements 60 Notice of Annual General Meeting 65 Shareholder information 66 Candover and Advisers 67 Form of proxy About Candover Candover was founded in 1980 and listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1984.
It invests in buyouts across Europe via funds managed by its wholly-owned subsidiary, Candover Partners Limited, which has raised ten funds to date from investors around the globe.
These include pension funds, insurance companies, endowments, foundations and other professional investors.
Investors in Candover Funds Top 15 investments Third party investors by value in the Analysis by value as at 31st December, 2008 Candover 2005 Fund Investors by type By valuation method By region 1.
3-4 years 15% 1 1 1 8 4 7 6 6 5 2 The cover of this report is printed on Forest Stewardship Council FSC 5 3 certified material.
This product is biodegradable, 100% recyclable and 4 2 elemental chlorine free ECF.
3 4 3 2 The text pages in this report are printed on 100% ECF pulp which is 100% recyclable and sourced from carefully managed and renewed commercial forests, certified in accordance with the FSC.
The mill is ISO 14001 certified.
Our printers use vegetable based inks and operate a direct computer to plate repro system.
References in this Report and Accounts to Candover mean Candover Investments plc and or, where appropriate, one or more of its subsidiaries.
Designed and produced by Carnegie Orr 44 0 20 7610 6140 The information contained herein is not for publication or distribution to persons in the United States of America.
Any securities referred to herein have not been and will not be registered under the US www.
co. uk Securities Act of 1933, as amended the Securities Act, and may not be offered or sold without registration thereunder or pursuant to an available exemption therefrom.
Any public offering of securities to be made in the United States would have to be made by means of a prospectus that would be obtainable from the issuer or its agents and would contain detailed information about the issuer of the securities and its management, as well as financial statements.
Neither this document nor the information contained herein constitutes an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities.
These materials do not constitute an offer of securities for sale in the United States.
No money, securities or other consideration is being solicited, and, if sent in response to the information contained herein, will not be accepted.
Candover Investments plc Report and accounts 2008 Candover Investments plc 20 Old Bailey London EC4M 7LN Telephone 44 0 20 7489 9848 Facsimile 44 0 20 7248 5483 Email info candover.
com Candover Report and Investments plc accounts 2008 08
