SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Electronic company communications Instead of receiving printed documents through the post, shareholders can receive the Annual Report and Financial Statements, Notice of Annual General Meeting and other shareholder documents electronically, as soon as they are published.
An online version of this Annual Report and Financial Statements is available on the Cattles website, www.
co. uk, and can be found in the Investor Centre section, alongside copies of prior year reports.
Shareholders can view, download or print all of the documents or only those pages in which they are particularly interested.
Shareholders are also able to appoint a proxy someone to vote for them at shareholder meetings electronically.
Shareholders who would like to sign up for electronic communications should log onto www.
com cattlesplc and then use the option to express register for Investor Centre where they can manage their shareholding online.
It is simple to register and only takes a few minutes.
Once registered, when the Company issues a document or communication to shareholders, shareholders will receive an email containing a link to a page of the Cattles website which contains the issued document or communication.
Shareholder services and helpline Computershare Investor Services PLC operates a facility whereby shareholders in Cattles are able to access their shareholdings over the internet.
Shareholders can access this service on Computershares website, www.
Shareholders will need their shareholder reference number, which is printed on their share certicate or tax voucher, to gain access to this information.
Shareholders who change address, have a query on their shares, or who otherwise require information about their shareholding should contact the Customer Information Unit at Computershare Investor Services PLC on the shareholder information telephone line: 0870 889 4021.
Alternatively, they should write to Computershare Investor Services PLC at PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 7NH, indicating that they are a Cattles plc shareholder.
Annual Report and 91 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc
