NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 After making enquiries regarding the circumstances outlined 1.
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES above, the directors have concluded that there is a reasonable Cattles plc the Company is a public limited company expectation that Cattles and its subsidiaries can continue to pay incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
Its shares are listed on their operational debts as they fall due for the foreseeable future the London Stock Exchange although its shares were suspended taking into account the expectations of Cattles and its from listing on 23 April 2009 and remain suspended at the date of subsidiaries in relation to the ongoing discussions with key these accounts.
The consolidated financial statements of the financial creditors, as referred to above.
Accordingly, they Company for the year ended 31 December 2008 comprise the continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The financial statements do not include the adjustments that would result if the Group and the Statement of compliance Company were unable to continue as a going concern.
These consolidated and Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRIC interpretations convention, and are presented in Pounds Sterling, the Companys issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
and all Group subsidiaries functional and presentational currency.
These consolidated and Company financial statements have also The accounting policies set out below have been applied been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as consistently by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
to all periods presented in these consolidated and Company financial statements.
While the accounting policies have been Basis of preparation applied consistently the comparative gures have been restated.
On 25 November 2009, Cattles announced that it had agreed A summary of the prior period adjustments is provided in note 2. a Standstill and Equalisation Agreement SEA with its key financial creditors, and that this should improve the likelihood Accounting developments of Cattles achieving its restructuring objectives, namely: Interpretations effective in 2008 but which had no impact The following interpretations to existing standards are to stabilise the financial position of Cattles and its mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 March subsidiaries: and 2007 or later periods, but they have had no impact on the Group against this background, to continue discussions with or the Company: Cattles key financial creditors with a view to agreeing IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions, a consensual restructuring of the Cattles group.
provides guidance on whether share-based transactions Further details of the SEA, the discussions with key financial involving treasury shares or involving Group entities for creditors and the Groups financial position are set out in the example, options over a parent companys shares should be Business and Financial Review and notes 23 and 37 to the accounted for as equity-settled or cash-settled share-based financial statements.
payment transactions in the stand-alone accounts of the parent and subsidiary companies.
This interpretation does not Cattles, WFS and the other members of the Cattles group do not have an impact on the Groups financial statements as the currently anticipate that the key financial creditors will demand Companys accounting policy for share-based compensation repayment from Cattles, WFS or the other members of the arrangements already comply with this interpretation: Cattles group because the key financial creditors have agreed in the SEA not to do so while that agreement continues.
IFRIC 12 Services concession arrangements and IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes are not relevant to the Cattles and WFS are engaged in discussions with their key Groups operations.
financial creditors and others in order to progress proposals for a consensual restructuring of the Cattles group.
While these Interpretation which has been early adopted discussions are progressing, a material uncertainty exists as to The following interpretation to an existing standard is their outcome.
The complexity and number of issues on which mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after it is necessary to reach agreement, the interests which must be 1 January 2009 or later periods.
The Group and Company have taken into account in doing so and the number of stakeholders early adopted this interpretation: with whom those agreements are necessary make achieving a IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a dened benefit asset, consensual restructuring uncertain.
However, the directors minimum funding requirements, provides guidance on presently believe that a reasonable prospect of restructuring assessing the limit under IAS 19 on the amount of the so as to avoid insolvent liquidation exists.
The directors belief is, pension surplus that can be recognised as an asset and on primarily, based on the level of support that continues to be how the pension asset or liability may be further affected provided by the financial creditors of the Cattles group and the by a statutory or contractual minimum funding requirement.
progress being made with them and others in furtherance of the This interpretation does not have any impact on the Group achievement of a consensual restructuring.
However, as these or the Companys financial statements as the dened benefit discussions are ongoing there is a material uncertainty that may scheme of the Group and Company is in a deficit position cast significant doubt upon the Groups ability to continue as a and the minimum funding requirement that is in place does going concern.
not give rise to an additional liability.
In addition, the directors continue to believe the Company and Standards and amendments that are not yet effective and have the Group will not cease trading in the foreseeable future, as not been early adopted Welcome focuses on collecting out its customers loans, with The following standards and amendments to existing standards Shopacheck and The Lewis Group continuing to trade as normal.
have been published and are mandatory for accounting periods WFS owes an inter-company liability to Cattles of 2.9 billion.
beginning on or after 1 January 2009 or later periods, which are However, Cattles is also party to the standstill contained within relevant to the Groups operations, but which the Group and the the SEA and Cattles has agreed not to demand repayment of the Company have not early adopted: inter-company liability while the SEA continues.
42 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 IFRS 8 Operating segments effective from 1 January 2009.
IAS 23 amendment Borrowing costs effective from This new standard, which replaces IAS 14 Segment 1 January 2009.
The denition of borrowing costs has been reporting, requires a management approach, under which amended so that interest expense is calculated using the segment information is presented on the same basis as that effective interest method dened in IAS 39 Financial used for internal reporting purposes.
It is not expected that instruments: Recognition and measurement.
This eliminates this standard will signicantly impact on the Groups the inconsistency of terms between IAS 39 and IAS 23.
The segmental disclosures: Group and Company will apply the IAS 23 amendment prospectively to the capitalisation of borrowing costs on IAS 23 amendment Borrowing costs effective from qualifying assets from 1 January 2009 and it is not expected 1 January 2009.
It is not expected that this amendment will to have a material impact on the Group or Companys have an impact on the Group or Companys result as the financial statements: Groups existing accounting policy requires that borrowing costs relating to assets in the course of development are IAS 36 amendment Impairment of assets effective from capitalised as part of the assets costs rather than expensed: 1 January 2009.
Where fair value less costs to sell is calculated on the basis of discounted cash ows, disclosures IAS 1 revised Presentation of financial statements effective equivalent to those for value in use calculation should be from 1 January 2009.
All non-owner changes in equity will made.
The Group and Company will apply the IAS 36 be required to be shown in a performance statement, but amendment and provide the required disclosure where entities can choose whether to present one performance applicable for impairment tests from 1 January 2009: statement the statement of comprehensive income or two statements the income statement and statement of IAS 38 amendment Intangible assets effective from comprehensive income.
The Group and Company will apply January 2009.
A prepayment may only be recognised in the IAS 1 revised from 1 January 2009.
It is likely that both the event that payment has been made in advance of obtaining income statement and statement of comprehensive income right of access to goods or receipt of services.
The Group and will be presented as performance statements: Company will apply the IAS 38 amendment from 1 January 2009, subject to endorsement by the EU, and it is not IFRS 2 amendment Share-based payment effective from expected to have a material impact on the Group or 1 January 2009.
This amendment deals with vesting Companys financial statements: conditions and cancellations.
It claries that vesting conditions are service conditions and performance conditions IAS 19 amendment Employee benets effective from only, and that other features of a share-based payment are 1 January 2009.
The most significant changes arising from not vesting conditions.
These features would need to be the amendment are as follows: included in the grant date fair value for transactions with i A plan amendment that results in a change in the extent employees and others providing similar services: they would to which benefit promises are affected by future salary not impact the number of awards expected to vest or increases is a curtailment, while an amendment that valuation thereof subsequent to grant date.
All cancellations, changes benets attributable to past service gives rise whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the to a negative past service cost if it results in a reduction same accounting treatment.
The Group and Company will in the present value of the dened benefit obligation: and apply IFRS 2 amendment from 1 January 2009.
It is not expected to have a material impact on the Group or ii The denition of return on plan assets has been Companys financial statements: amended to state that plan administration costs are deducted in the calculation of return on plan assets only IFRS 3 revised Business combinations effective from to the extent that such costs have been excluded from 1 July 2009.
The revised standard continues to apply the measurement of the dened benefit obligation.
acquisition method to business combinations, with some significant changes.
For example, all payments to purchase The Group and Company will apply the IAS 19 amendment a business are to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition from 1 January 2009, subject to endorsement by the EU, and date, with contingent payments classied as debt it is not expected to have an impact on the Group or subsequently re-measured through the income statement.
There is a choice on an  basis to IFRS 9 effective 1 January 2013, not yet endorsed by the EU.
measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either The Board has not yet assessed the impact IFRS 9 will have at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate on these financial statements.
share of the acquirees net assets.
All acquisition-related costs should be expensed.
The Group will apply IFRS 3 Consolidation revised prospectively to all business combinations from A business combination is recognised where separate entities 1 January 2010: or businesses have been brought together within the Group.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power IFRS 5 amendment Non-current assets held-for-sale and to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain discontinued operations and consequential amendment benets from its activities, generally accompanying a to IFRS 1 First-time adoption effective from 1 July 2009. shareholding of more than 50% of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries The amendment claries that all of a subsidiarys assets and are fully consolidated from the date on which control is liabilities are classied as held-for-sale if a partial disposal transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date sale plan results in loss of control.
Relevant disclosure should that control ceases.
All subsidiaries share the same reporting be made for this subsidiary if the denition of a discontinued date, 31 December, as Cattles.
A consequential amendment to IFRS 1 states that these amendments are applied prospectively The purchase method of accounting is used to account for from the date of transition to IFRS.
The Group will apply the business combinations made by the Group.
The cost of a IFRS 5 amendment prospectively to all partial disposals of business combination is measured as the fair value of the assets subsidiaries from 1 January 2010: Annual Report and 43 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued a Interest income 1.
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Interest income is recognised in the income statement for all Consolidation continued financial assets measured at amortised cost using the effective given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or interest method.
The effective interest method is a method of assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and allocating to the business combination.
the interest income over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate EIR is the rate that exactly discounts estimated Contingent consideration is included in the cost of a business at future cash ows through the expected life, or contractual term the acquisition date only if the consideration is probable and can if shorter, of the financial asset to the net carrying amount of be reliably measured, and if deferred is discounted using an the financial asset.
When calculating the EIR, the Group appropriate discount rate.
If the future events upon which the estimates cash ows considering all contractual terms of the contingent consideration is based do not occur or the estimate financial instruments, such as early settlement options, but needs to be revised or if contingent consideration, which had does not include an expectation for future credit losses.
The not been initially included, does become probable and can be calculation includes all fees charged to customers, such as reliably measured, the cost of the business combination, and acceptance or similar fees, and direct and incremental any associated goodwill, is adjusted accordingly.
transaction costs, such as broker commissions and certain Identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired agents remuneration.
in the business combination are measured initially at their fair In respect of purchased debt, the EIR calculation is based on values at the acquisition date.
The excess of the cost of an estimate of expected collections from the debt and takes acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the account of any initial costs, such as court fees.
identiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets Amounts due from lessees under finance leases and hire acquired, the difference is credited to the income statement purchase contracts are recorded as receivables at the amount in the period of acquisition.
of the Groups net investment in the lease.
Finance income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reect a constant Inter-company income, expenses, balances and unrealised gains periodic rate of return on the Groups net investment before or losses on transactions between group companies are tax outstanding in respect of the lease.
eliminated on consolidation, to the extent that they do not provide evidence of impairment of assets transferred.
b Fee and related income Welcome offered payment protection and other insurance Segmental reporting products, such as health, life and mechanical breakdown A business segment is a group of assets and operations insurance, to its customers for which a commission was received engaged in providing products or services that are subject to from third-party fronting insurers.
Income from commission and risks and returns that are different from those of other business profit share arrangements in respect of payment protection segments.
For management purposes, the Group is organised insurance, is recognised on an effective interest method over the into three operating divisions, Welcome Financial Services, term of the policy.
The effective interest method reects the The Lewis Group and Cattles Invoice Finance.
Welcome Financial provision of service under the policy, as the Group bears Services comprises the consumer credit businesses, Welcome insurance risk.
Commission received for the brokering of the sale and Shopacheck, and the car retail business, Welcome Car of other insurance products, for which the Group does not bear Finance.
As the consumer credit and car retail businesses are any underlying insurance risk, is recognised and credited to the subject to different risks and returns, they are reported as two income statement when the brokerage service has been separate primary segments.
The Lewis Group and Cattles Invoice provided.
Finance are reported as two further primary segments, being that of debt recovery and corporate services respectively.
On c Revenue from sale of goods 30 April 2009 the car retail business, Welcome Car Finance was Revenue from the sale of goods, principally vehicles, is closed.
On 14 September 2009, Cattles Invoice Finance was sold.
recognised when the Group entity has delivered the product to the customer, the customer has accepted the product and A geographical segment is a group of assets and operations collectability of the related receivable is reasonably assured.
engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns that d Other operating income are different from those segments operating in other economic Other operating income primarily comprises commission environments.
The Groups operations are located only in the UK.
charged to clients for the collection of debts and fees are Management considers that all regions of the UK are subject to charged for marketing insurance products.
These commissions the same risks and returns, such that no secondary geographic and fees are credited to the income statement when the service segments exist.
All income and expenses are directly attributable to a segment, Interest expense except for certain expenses which are allocated to the consumer Interest expense primarily comprises the interest expense credit and car retail segments.
These costs are allocated on the arising on the Groups borrowings which is recognised on an basis of either the proportion of the consumer loan portfolio effective interest method refer to the accounting policies represented by car hire purchase accounts obtained through entitled Borrowings and Debt securities in issue and other Welcome Car Finance or the number of employees in each borrowings, the ineffectiveness charge arising in relation to segment, whichever is more appropriate given the nature of the Groups hedging instruments refer to the accounting policy the expense.
entitled Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities and the cost of undrawn facilities.
Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration receivable for the sale of goods and services, net of value added tax, and is recognised as follows: 44 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 Financial assets The IBNR was first established at 31 December 2008 following Management determines the classication of the Groups a review by the Board whilst assessing the change in economic financial assets at initial recognition into one of the following circumstances.
It has not been practicably possible without the categories and re-evaluates this designation at each reporting use of hindsight, to calculate the amount of IBNR that could date: have been required as at 31 December 2007. a Loans and receivables b 120 days contracted arrears Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with At 120 days contractual arrears the relationship with the xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active customer is judged to have broken down and loans are subject market.
They arise when the Group provides money directly to to an impairment charge on the basis of expected future cash a customer with no intention of trading the receivable.
The credit losses are deemed to be fully incurred at this classication includes advances made to customers under point.
hire purchase agreements and purchased debt.
In Shopacheck, home collect accounts are reviewed based upon Loans and receivables are recognised when cash is advanced to recent cash collection performance and an impairment provision borrowers, or at the date of acquisition in respect of purchased is made where future expected cash ows are lower than the debt.
These assets are initially recognised at fair value plus direct carrying value of the loan.
Loans and receivables are Cattles Invoice Finance determines that there is objective subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective evidence of an impairment loss as part of a process termed interest method.
This process commences should a client have served b Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss notice that they wish to end their facility or when management This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for become aware that the client is encountering trading trading: and those designated at fair value through profit or difficulties.
At this point the clients facilities are withdrawn, loss at inception.
A financial asset is classied as at fair value no further funds are made available and client managers begin through profit or loss if acquired principally for the purpose of the process of recovering the outstanding balance.
Where, based selling in the short-term or if so designated by management.
upon an individual assessment of each client in collect out, it is Derivatives refer to the accounting policy entitled Derivative apparent that there are no further routes to recovery and that financial instruments and hedging activities are also as a consequence funds will not be recovered in full, a provision categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as is made which is equivalent to the expected shortfall.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has Impairment of loans and receivables occurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference In respect of loans and receivables, including receivables under between the assets carrying amount and the present value of hire purchase contracts, the Group assesses on an ongoing basis estimated future cash ows, excluding future credit losses that whether there is objective evidence that a loan asset or a group have not been incurred, discounted at the loan assets original of loan assets is impaired.
A loan asset or a group of loan assets EIR.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is of a loan loss provision.
The amount of the loss is recognised in objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more the income statement as a loan loss charge.
events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset Loans and receivables and the related loan loss provision are a loss event and the loss event has an impact on the estimated normally written off when there is no realistic prospect of future cash ows of the loan asset or group of loan assets that recovery of these amounts.
Renegotiated loans For the purposes of evaluating the degree of impairment, Loans whose terms are contractually renegotiated are no longer loan assets are grouped on the basis of similar credit risk regarded as past due or impaired and are disclosed as new characteristics.
Those characteristics are relevant to the loans.
In subsequent years, the loan is considered to be past due estimation of future cash ows for groups of such assets by only if further performance issues arise, based on the new being indicative of the debtors ability to pay all amounts due contractual terms.
For renegotiated loans, impairment is according to the contractual terms of the assets being calculated on the basis of expected future cash ows from the evaluated.
Future cash ows for a group of loan assets are renegotiated loan.
estimated on the basis of the contractual cash ows of the assets and historical loss experience for assets with credit risk Foreign currency translation characteristics similar to those in the Group.
Historical loss a Functional and presentational currency experience is adjusted on the basis of current observable data The Groups financial statements are presented in Pounds to reect the effects of current conditions that did not affect the Sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentational period on which the historical loss experience is based and to currency.
All subsidiaries of the Group have pounds sterling as remove the effects of conditions in the historical period that their functional currency.
b Transactions and balances In Welcome, objective evidence of impairment occurs after Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional a customer misses one contractual payment.
Impairment is currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the increased by reference to the level of contractual arrears on transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from a customer account as follows: the settlement of such transactions, and from the translation at period end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities a Incurred but not reported IBNR denominated in foreign currencies, are recognised in the income Where accounts less than 120 days in arrears have missed one statement as part of interest expense in relation to borrowings contractual payment they are subject to an impairment charge and as part of other operating expenses in relation to other calculated on the basis of expected future cash ows, excluding monetary assets and liabilities.
Annual Report and 45 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued d Share-based payments 1.
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based Staff costs payment plans, including a Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
In a Short-term benets respect of share awards granted after 7 November 2002 Wages, salaries, commissions, bonuses, social security and not vested by 1 January 2005, in accordance with IFRS 2 contributions, paid annual leave and non-monetary benets, Share-based payment, an expense is recognised in respect of including the cost of providing company cars and death-inthe fair value of employee services received in exchange for the service premiums, are accrued in the period in which the grant of shares or share options.
A corresponding amount is associated services are rendered by employees of the Group.
recorded as an increase in equity within retained earnings.
The expense is spread over any relevant vesting period and is b Pension obligations calculated by reference to the fair value of the shares or share The Group has both a dened benefit and a number of dened options granted, excluding the effect of any non-market vesting contribution pension plans.
The assets of the dened benefit conditions.
pension plan are held in a separate trustee administered fund.
When the Group grants new share options as consideration The present value of the dened benefit obligation less the fair for the cancellation or settlement of an old grant, these are value of the plan assets is recognised in the balance sheet as the identied as replacements for the cancelled share options and retirement benefit obligation.
When a surplus arises on an are accounted for as a modication in accordance with IFRS 2.
IAS 19 Employee benets basis which exceeds the anticipated Therefore, the original fair value in relation to the cancelled value to the Company through future reductions in contributions share options continues to be recognised as an expense over or future refunds, the pension scheme asset is restricted to the the original vesting period, together with an expense for the value anticipated.
When contributions payable to cover an incremental fair value being recognised over the vesting period existing deficit for past service will either create or increase an of the replacement share options.
The incremental fair value irrecoverable surplus, an additional liability is recognised when is calculated as the difference between the fair value of the the obligation to pay such contributions arises regardless of replacement share options and the net fair value of the whether the scheme is in deficit or surplus on an IAS 19 basis.
cancelled share options at the date the replacement share This obligation is recognised in the Companys balance sheet options were granted.
since this entity is the plans sponsoring employer and there In respect of the Deferred Share Bonus Plan, the grant date is is no formal agreement for allocating the cost of pension the start of the year in which the performance to determine the contributions between the subsidiary participating employers.
level of bonus to be awarded is measured.
The dened benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected credit method.
The In arriving at fair values, the Black-Scholes pricing model is used present value of the dened benefit obligation is determined by and various assumptions are made, for example, on expected discounting the estimated future cash ows using interest rates forfeiture rates, dividend yields, share price volatility and risk free of high quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity rates.
The estimate for the number of options that are expected approximating to the terms of the related pension liability and to become exercisable is revised at each balance sheet date.
Any denominated in the currency in which the benets will be paid.
impact from the revision of original estimates is recognised in The dened benefit obligation takes account of an allowance for the income statement over the remaining vesting period.
the cash commutation option that members have at retirement, Share-based payment awards made by the Company to but does not include a reserve for death-in-service benets or employees of subsidiary companies are reected in the financial non-investment related expenses.
statements of the Company as an increase in the investments The fair value of plan assets is based on bid prices at each in subsidiary undertakings with the corresponding credit being balance sheet date.
The Company does not make a recharge to its subsidiary companies in respect of awards granted to their Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments employees.
and changes in actuarial assumptions are immediately recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Past service On the exercise of share options any proceeds received, net of costs are recognised immediately within the income statement, any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the capital nominal value with any surplus taken to the share employees remaining in service for a specified period of time premium account.
In this case, past service costs are amortised Current and deferred tax on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
The charge for current tax is based on the taxable profit for For dened contribution plans, the Group pays contributions the year as adjusted for items which are non-assessable or into privately administered pension plans on a contractual basis.
It is calculated using rates of tax that have been The contributions are recognised as a staff cost as they fall due.
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The Group provides no other post-retirement benets to its Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on directors or other employees.
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial c Termination benets statements.
Deferred tax is recognised in the income statement, Termination benets are payable when employment is except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Deferred tax employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted benets.
The Group recognises termination benets when it is or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are demonstrably committed to either the termination of expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised employment or a voluntary redundancy offered.
or the deferred tax liability is settled.
46 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
probable that future taxable profits will be available against When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, which the temporary differences can be utilised.
the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash ow statement, cash and cash If a fair value hedging instrument no longer meets the equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held with banks with effectiveness criteria, the adjustment to the carrying value of maturity dates of less than three months, and bank overdrafts.
a hedged item, for which the effective interest method is used, Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings from banks in the is amortised to income over the period to maturity.
Investments in subsidiaries Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Investments in subsidiaries are initially recognised at cost.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date The Company recognises income from the investment only to the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently the extent that it receives distributions from post-acquisition re-measured at fair value.
The fair value of derivatives is accumulated profits.
Distributions received in excess of such determined by using a valuation model and is primarily based profits are regarded as a recovery of investment and recognised on observable market data.
The method of recognising the as a reduction in the cost of the investment.
resulting gain or loss from the re-measurement depends on At each reporting date, an assessment is made as to whether whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, there is any indication that the investment may be impaired.
and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
If such an indication exists, where practicable the Company The Groups policy is to designate on the date that the derivative estimates the investments recoverable amount.
The investment contract is committed to.
The Group designates derivatives as: is written down to the recoverable amount if this is lower than its carrying value.
The impairment loss is recognised in the a hedge of the fair value of a liability fair value hedging Companys income statement.
instrument : or Intangible assets a hedge of the cost of a highly probable forecast transaction or commitment cash ow hedging instrument.
a Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisition represents the excess of the cost To qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required, at of a business combination over the fair values of the Groups inception, to document its risk management objectives and share of the identiable net assets acquired.
Goodwill is not strategy for undertaking hedging transactions, together with amortised, but is reviewed at least annually for impairment.
documentation on the relationship between the item being For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also cash generating units CGUs.
Each CGU is consistent with the required to document and demonstrate an assessment of Groups primary reporting segments.
Any impairment is the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging recognised immediately through the income statement and is instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly effective not subsequently reversed.
in offsetting changes in fair values or cash ows of the hedged item on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill re-performed at each reporting date to ensure that the is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Up to 31 December 1997 under previous accounting policies, The effectiveness of hedging instruments is assessed using the goodwill arising on acquisitions was recognised as a deduction hypothetical derivative method.
This involves the comparison from equity.
On the subsequent disposal of any business to of the changes in fair value of the hedging instrument to a which goodwill had been recognised as a deduction from equity, hypothetical derivative which has critical terms that match the the goodwill remains within equity and is not transferred to the hedged item.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as highly b Computer software effective fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the Acquired software licences are stated at cost less accumulated income statement within interest expense, together with the amortisation and any impairment loss.
Cost represents change in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the expenditure that is directly attributable to the purchase of the hedged risk.
The change in the fair value relating to the licence.
The licences are amortised over their useful lives ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income 3-7 years on a straight line basis.
Costs that are directly attributable to the creation of identiable The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives software, which meet the development asset recognition criteria designated as cash ow hedging instruments is recognised in as laid out in IAS 38 Intangible assets, are recognised as equity within the hedging reserve.
The change in the fair value internally generated intangible assets.
Direct costs include the relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in employment costs of internal software developers, consultancy the income statement within interest expense.
Costs are capitalised until such time as the internally generated software is substantially ready for its Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income intended use.
statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit, i. e. when the forecast interest payment that is hedged Computer software development costs recognised as assets are takes place.
amortised over their estimated useful lives 5-7 years on a straight line basis.
When a cash ow hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a cash ow hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge The residual values and useful lives of capitalised computer accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that software are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast balance sheet date.
Annual Report and 47 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued Leasing as lessor 1.
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Advances made to customers under hire purchase agreements All other software development, which do not meet the asset whereby the Group conveys the right to use assets over a period recognition criteria of IAS 38, and maintenance costs are of time in exchange for payment, substantially all the risks and recognised as an expense as incurred.
rewards of ownership are retained by the Group.
Property, plant and equipment Under such agreements the present value of the lease payment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated is recognised in loans and receivables.
Income is recognised over depreciation.
Cost represents expenditure that is directly the term of the lease using the net investment method in attributable to the purchase of the asset.
Certain land and interest income.
buildings are held at previous revalued amounts less subsequent Inventories accumulated depreciation, which were taken to be their deemed Inventories comprise vehicles held for resale and are stated at cost at the date of transition to IFRS 1 January 2004 in the lower of actual cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable accordance with the exemption under IFRS 1. value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of Land and buildings are not subject to revaluations.
business less variable selling expenses.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or Trade and other receivables recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is Trade and other receivables, which do not include loans and probable that future economic benets associated with the receivables, are recognised initially at fair value and items will ow to the Group and the cost of the item can be subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective measured reliably.
interest method, less provision for impairment.
Depreciation on other assets is A provision for impairment of trade and other receivables is calculated using the straight line method to allocate the cost established when there is objective evidence that the Group will less the residual values over their estimated useful lives, not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original as follows: terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present Freehold buildings 2% pa value of estimated future cash ows, discounted at the original Leasehold buildings 2% to 20% pa EIR.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use Fixtures and equipment Shorter of 10% to 33.33% pa or the of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is lease term recognised in the income statement.
Motor vehicles Shorter of 20% pa or the lease term Impairment The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than loans adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
and receivables, inventories and deferred tax assets, are Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether proceeds with carrying amounts and are included in the income there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication statement.
exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Leasing as lessee The recoverable amount of the Groups receivables is calculated Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group as the present value of expected future cash ows, discounted has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are at the original EIR inherent in the asset.
Receivables with a short classied as finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases duration are not discounted.
Further details on the impairment or hire purchase contracts are capitalised on inception of the policy in relation to the Groups loan portfolio are set out in the agreement at an amount equal to their fair value or, if lower, accounting policy Impairment of loans and receivables.
the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The interest The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their element of the lease cost is charged to the income statement, net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, within other operating expenses, over the lease period so as to the expected future cash ows are discounted to their present produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining value using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current market balance of the liability for each period.
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely or hire purchase contracts are depreciated over the shorter of independent cash inows, the recoverable amount is the period of the agreement and the estimated useful lives determined for the CGU to which the asset belongs.
impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
and rewards of ownership are classied as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases, net of any incentives A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed if there received from the lessor, are charged to the income statement, has been a change in the estimates used to determine the within other operating expenses or staff costs in the case of recoverable amount, however not to an amount higher than company cars, on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of amortisation or depreciation, if no impairment loss had been The obligations outstanding under finance leases and hire recognised in prior years.
purchase contracts are included within other liabilities in the balance sheet.
48 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 Borrowings from banks Borrowings from banks include bank loans under syndicate and bilateral facilities and overdrafts.
Bank loans are recognised initially at fair value, being their issue proceeds net of any transaction costs incurred.
These loans are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the loans using the effective interest method.
Debt securities in issue and other borrowings Debt securities in issue and other borrowings include debenture loans and other borrowings.
Debenture loans and other borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, being their issue proceeds net of any transaction costs incurred.
These borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount has been reliably measured.
Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Shares are recorded at their nominal value with any surplus received on their issue taken to the share premium account.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
Where the Company purchases its own shares, being held by the trustee of the employee benefit trust in respect of the various long-term incentive plans, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity on consolidation.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs is included in equity on consolidation.
These transactions are classied as own shares held within other reserves.
Dividend distribution Final dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends payable are recognised in the period in which the dividends are paid.
Annual Report and 49 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 2.
RECONCILIATION OF RESTATEMENT OF PRIOR PERIOD ERRORS Following the events outlined in the Executive Chairmans Statement and the Business and Financial Review, a number of items have been restated in the Group and the Companys 31 December 2007 financial statements, details of which are provided in the table below: Restatement As published amount Restated 2007 2007 2007 Group Note m m m Income statement Interest income a.
27.5 27.5 Other reserves k. 5.8 5.0 0.8 Retained earnings l. 295.1 365.8 70.7 Restatement As published amount Restated 2007 2007 2007 Company Note m m m Income statement profit for the year 68.7 9.1 59.6 Balance sheet Borrowings h. 2,361.9 4.2 2,366.1 Other reserves k. 0.8 5.0 4.2 Retained earnings l. 104.0 9.1 94.9 50 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 Summary of restatement items a.
Interest income There is a requirement under IAS 39 for interest recognised on an effective interest rate basis to be reduced where underlying loans become impaired.
Interest income has been restated after the carrying value of the loans was reduced following additional loan loss charges.
Fee and related income Payment protection insurance commission income has been reclassied from interest income to fee and related income.
c. Interest expense As a result of the breach of the Groups borrowing covenants, the Companys hedging instruments were ineffective in 2007.
The amount of 5.0 million reects the adjustments required to the income statement in accordance with the Companys accounting policies.
d. Loan loss charge As described in the Executive Chairmans Statement, the Groups impairment policies had been incorrectly applied.
This has resulted in the restatement of the loan loss charge for the year ended 31 December 2007 by 118.9 million and, for the years ended 31 December 2006 and prior, a total of 135.4 million of additional provision has been made to 1 January 2007 retained earnings.
The method of calculating the IBNR provision was first established as at 31 December 2008 following a review by the Board while assessing the change in economic circumstances.
It has not been practicably possible without the use of hindsight, to calculate the amount required at 31 December 2007.
The cost of establishing the IBNR provision has therefore all been charged in the 2008 income statement.
e. Other operating expenses As a result of the loss before taxation incurred in 2007, it has been necessary to revise the cash ows used in calculating the previous estimates of value in use.
This had led to a reduction in the carrying values of the goodwill 39.5 million, other intangible assets 51.6 million, and other costs 4.1 million.
f. Taxation Tax charges have been restated and agreed with HMRC to reect the effect of the increased loan loss charge and other impairment charges.
g. Loans and receivables Loans and receivables balances have been restated to reect the additional loan loss provisions note d. and deferred income note j..
This also results in the substantial restatement of the credit risk disclosures outlined in note 18. h. Borrowings As a result of the breach of loan covenants, it was necessary to reclassify the majority of borrowings as current and to write off certain issue costs, which had not previously been expensed through the effective interest method.
Current tax assets liabilities The increased loan loss charge, an allowable expense for tax purposes, has resulted in the restatement and recognition of a current tax asset in the Group of 41.5 million, which has been subsequently recovered from HMRC.
Deferred income Loans and receivables have been grossed up by 73.3 million with the adjustment being shown as deferred income.
k. Other reserves The Group other reserves related to the cumulative fair value gain loss of the Group hedging instruments.
As a result of the revised ineffectiveness test outlined in c. above, this adjustment relates to those fair value movements, which are subsequently chargeable to the income statement through interest expense in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
l. Retained earnings Previously stated retained earnings have been restated to reect the impact of the above items and the related tax effect.
m. It has not been practicably possible, without the use of hindsight, to calculate the amount of impairment of investments in subsidiary undertakings and intra-group loans required at 31 December 2007 note 17.
Annual Report and 51 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 3.
KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION, UNCERTAINTY AND JUDGEMENT The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The following are the critical sources of estimation and judgement that the directors have made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Key source of judgement Loan loss provisioning Impairment losses are calculated in circumstances where a loss event, an impairment trigger, is deemed to have occurred, as described in the statement of accounting policies.
The determination of impairment triggers has been reviewed and remains a key area of management judgement.
Key estimates Retirement benefit obligation The valuation of the retirement benefit obligation is dependent upon a series of assumptions, the key ones being mortality rates, investment returns, salary ination, the rate of pension increases and the extent to which members take up the maximum tax free commutation on retirement.
Mortality estimates are based on standard mortality tables, adjusted where appropriate to reect the Groups own experience.
The returns on xed interest investments are set to market yields at the valuation date to ensure consistency with the asset valuation.
The returns on UK and overseas equities are set by considering the long-term expected returns on these asset classes using a combination of historical performance analysis, the forward looking views of the financial markets as suggested by the yields available and the views of investment organisations.
The salary ination and pension increase assumptions reect the long-term expectations for both earnings and retail price ination.
The assumption as to how many members will take up the maximum tax free commutation on retirement is based on the schemes own experience of commutation levels.
The principal assumptions used in the valuation of the retirement benefit obligation as at 31 December 2008 are set out in note 27.
Loan loss provisioning In assessing future cash ows for the purposes of assessing impairment, management uses historic data from portfolios of similar loans.
The assessment of the applicable range of data to include in the impairment calculation is a key estimate.
The degree to which the calculated impairment is deemed to be incurred for each delinquency band is also a key estimate.
Incurred losses Where there is objective evidence of impairment, losses should be calculated on the basis of the present value of future expected cash ows less future credit losses.
The degree to which a loss is incurred is a matter of judgement.
Impairment losses are only considered to be fully incurred when an account has reached the 120 day arrears band.
For accounts which are past due in the arrears bands 30-59 days, 60-89 days and 90-119 days, a discount factor is applied to the full provision calculated on the future expected cash ows to reect the degree to which the total estimated final loss is incurred at the balance sheet date.
If the factors are removed from the 30-59 days, 60-89 days and 90-119 days, then based on managements assumptions, the provision would increase by 117 million.
If the losses were only deemed incurred at the 120 day arrears band then the provision would reduce by 105 million.
Historical data The loan book in Welcome is collectively evaluated for impairment.
Impairment is assessed on the basis of future cash ows based on the historical performance of assets with similar risk characteristics.
Historical loan performance data has been used which tracks the subsequent cash performance, based on representative historic data.
The historical data is reviewed for applicability to the current period.
A 10% increase or decrease in actual cash collected against that predicted by historical data would result in a change in loan loss provision of 32 million.
Fair value Fair value loans and receivables has been calculated by discounting expected future cash ows from the loans and receivables at the Groups cost of capital plus the costs of collection, effective at the balance sheet date.
Both the future cash ows and the market rate of interest contain significant estimates.
A five percentage point increase in the discount factor would reduce the fair value by 0.1 billion.
Provisions The Group recognised in 2008 provisions in relation to potential future costs arising as a result of certain product sales.
The calculation of the provisions contains significant judgement and estimates.
52 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 4.
SEGMENTAL REPORTING Group segmental income and results for the year ended 31 December 2008 and segment assets and liabilities as at that date are as follows: Consumer Debt Corporate credit recovery services Central Eliminations Group m m m m m m Revenue 810.0 13.3 23.7 847.0 Inter-segment income 2.9 2.9 Interest expense 270.8 10.1 5.4 286.3 539.2 6.1 18.3 2.9 560.7 Result Segment result 715.1 5.2 2.3 6.1 724.1 Central expenses 21.1 Loss before taxation 745.2 Taxation 8.4 Loss for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company 753.6 Inter-segment sales are subject to arms length commercial terms and conditions.
Segment assets and liabilities Consumer Debt Corporate credit recovery services Central Group m m m m m Segment assets 2,328.0 317.9 95.9 2,181.4 4,923.2 Unallocated 85.0 Eliminations 2,345.5 Total assets 2,662.7 Segment liabilities 3,138.6 305.1 81.9 3,142.6 6,668.2 Unallocated Eliminations 3,594.1 Total liabilities 3,074.1 Other segment items Capital expenditure 26.2 0.5 0.3 27.0 Depreciation 11.2 0.2 0.3 0.1 11.8 Amortisation and impairment 19.3 0.1 19.4 Loan loss provisions 1,278.6 1.3 1,279.9 Capital expenditure comprises additions to intangible assets note 15 and property, plant and equipment note 16.
Annual Report and 53 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 4.
SEGMENTAL REPORTING continued The segmental income and results for the year ended 31 December 2007 and segment assets and liabilities as at that date as restated see note 2 are as follows: Restated Consumer Debt Corporate Restated Restated credit recovery services Central Eliminations Group m m m m m m Revenue 859.0 31.9 21.3 912.2 Inter-segment income 1.8 1.8 Interest expense 129.8 6.3 4.4 2.9 137.6 729.2 27.4 16.9 2.9 1.8 774.6 Result Segment result 59.7 10.2 2.5 5.0 52.0 Central expenses and goodwill impairment 44.5 Loss before taxation 96.5 Taxation 1.2 Loss for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company 97.7 Segment assets and liabilities Restated Consumer Debt Corporate Restated Restated credit recovery services Central Group m m m m m Segment assets 2,606.1 258.0 108.1 2,721.8 5,694.0 Unallocated 52.8 Eliminations 2,998.7 Total assets 2,748.1 Segment liabilities 2,604.4 251.0 96.3 2,531.0 5,482.7 Unallocated 29.8 Eliminations 2,998.7 Total liabilities 2,513.8 Other segment items Capital expenditure 26.5 0.2 0.8 0.2 27.7 Depreciation 6.1 0.1 0.3 0.1 6.6 Amortisation and impairment 66.7 0.1 27.9 94.7 Loan loss provisions 698.9 2.9 701.8 Capital expenditure comprises additions to intangible assets note 15 and property, plant and equipment note 16.
PARENT COMPANY INCOME STATEMENT The consolidated loss for the year includes 2,205.4 million 2007 restated profit for the year: 59.6 million, which has been dealt with in the financial statements of the Company.
The Company has taken advantage of Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 and has not included its own income statement in these financial statements.
INTEREST INCOME Restated 2008 2007 Group m m Loans and receivables 576.3 602.4 Cash equivalents 0.6 1.5 576.9 603.9 54 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 7.
INTEREST EXPENSE Restated 2008 2007 Group m m Interest expense on bank borrowings 94.6 65.9 Interest expense on debt securities in issue and other borrowings 115.9 64.4 Fair value movements on derivative instruments: Interest rate swaps 43.0 16.7 Cross-currency swaps 1.9 0.1 Other 34.7 9.3 286.3 137.6 8.
STAFF COSTS Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Wages and salaries 121.7 110.6 5.0 5.4 Social security costs 14.0 13.0 0.6 1.0 Pension costs Dened benefit pension scheme note 27 1.0 1.5 1.0 1.5 Dened contribution pension schemes note 27 1.7 1.6 0.3 0.2 Share-based payments note 29 2.0 4.9 0.2 2.8 Other benets 14.8 13.7 1.0 0.3 155.2 145.3 8.1 11.2 Staff costs includes the cost of employee termination benets of 1.0 million 2007: 0.3 million and 0.1 million 2007: nil for the Group and Company respectively.
Other benets principally comprise the costs associated with the provision of company cars, health insurance and life assurance cover.
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group including directors during the year was as follows: 2008 2007 Welcome Financial Services 4,666 4,267 The Lewis Group 311 270 Cattles Invoice Finance 169 151 Central 37 31 5,183 4,719 The employees of the Company are solely included in the Central category.
Key management compensation Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Short-term employee benets 2.9 4.9 2.5 4.1 Post-employment benets 0.4 0.5 0.4 0.4 Share-based payments 2.7 2.5 3.3 8.1 2.9 7.0 In addition to the directors of the Company, key management of the Group comprised the members of the Groups Executive Committee.
At 31 December 2008 4,781,245 shares were notionally held by key management in respect of long-term incentive schemes 2007: 2,383,808.
During the year 1,894,003 shares 2007: 1,738,043 shares with an estimated fair value of 1.6 million 2007: 5.2 million were awarded to key management under these schemes.
A detailed analysis of the emoluments of the Companys directors, including salaries, benets in kind, performance-related bonuses, share options, long-term incentives and pension arrangements, is provided in the section entitled Audited information of the Directors Remuneration Report and forms part of these financial statements.
Annual Report and 55 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 9.
OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES Restated 2008 2007 Group m m Administrative expenses 56.3 42.0 Occupancy costs 21.6 18.4 Agents commission 12.8 13.4 Advertising costs 13.2 12.1 Collection costs 18.5 8.6 Motor and travel expenses 6.7 5.3 Depreciation and amortisation costs 20.9 10.2 Impairment of goodwill and intangibles 10.3 91.1 Provisions costs 94.6 Other 34.4 40.9 289.3 242.0 Other includes hire purchase interest expense of 0.1 million 2007: 0.3 million and the cost of inventory written down in the year of 0.4 million 2007: 0.2 million.
There were no reversals of written down inventory in the year 2007: nil.
SERVICES PROVIDED BY THE COMPANYS EXTERNAL AUDITORS Subsequent to the year end,  LLP resigned as auditor and were replaced by Grant Thornton UK LLP.
Details of both their charges are provided below.
The disclosure of auditors remuneration in accordance with the ICAEWs Technical Release 06 06 is as follows: 2008 2007 Group m m Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys annual report and financial statements were:  LLP 0.1 0.1 Grant Thornton UK LLP 0.5 0.6 0.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditors: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation  LLP 0.5 0.3 Grant Thornton UK LLP 1.5 In addition  LLP fees related to: Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation 0.7 0.1 Other services relating to taxation: Compliance 0.2 0.4 Advisory 0.1 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates 2.7 0.1 All other services 0.3 0.3 Total other services 6.0 1.2 Total auditors remuneration 6.6 1.3 In addition to the above services,  LLP, acted as auditor to the Cattles Staff Pension Fund.
The appointment of auditor to the Groups pension scheme, and the fees paid of 8,550 2007: 8,780, are agreed by the trustees of the scheme, acting independently from the management of the Group.
In appointing the external auditor to carry out non-audit services, and in setting their fees for such work, the directors have due regard to the Groups policy in respect of non-audit services as detailed in the Audit Committee Report and the benets, financial and non-financial, expected to be obtained.
For the year ended 31 December 2008 all other services principally related to the Groups response to the Competition Commissions inquiry in the payment protection insurance market and the Groups share-based payment awards.
Other services in 2007 related to the same matters as those in 2008, together with work in relation to the Groups dened benefit pension scheme.
The fees for audit and non-audit services are included within other operating expenses, except for 0.5 million of non-audit fees relating to the rights issue which were recognised in the share premium account.
The Company is not required to disclose details of its own non-audit services.
Grant Thornton fees relate only to the provision of audit assurance services.
56 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 11.
TAXATION Restated 2008 2007 Group m m Current tax UK corporation tax at 28.5% 2007: 30% 0.8 Adjustments in respect of previous years 5.0 0.1 Total current tax charge credit 5.0 0.7 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1.5 0.1 Adjustments in respect of previous years 4.9 Change in tax rate 0.6 Total deferred tax charge note 20 3.4 0.5 Total tax charge in the income statement 8.4 1.2 Current tax on items credited to equity Relating to share-based payments 0.1 0.4 0.1 0.4 Deferred tax on items debited to equity Relating to cash ow hedges Relating to retirement benefit obligation 2.4 Prior year adjustment charged to equity 6.3 3.9 Change in tax rate 0.2 6.3 6.5 The rate of tax for the year is 28.5% 2007: 30% and represents a blended tax rate following the reduction in the rate of corporation tax from 30% to 28%, which was effective from 1 April 2008.
The tax charge for the year is more than the tax on profit on ordinary activities at the standard rate for the reasons set out in the following reconciliation: Restated 2008 2007 Group m m Loss before taxation 745.2 96.5 Tax on loss at the standard rate of 28.5% 2007: 30% 212.1 29.0 Factors affecting charge for the year: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2.4 14.0 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous years 9.9 0.8 Change in tax rate 0.6 Movement in unprovided deferred tax 208.2 16.4 Total tax charge for the year 8.4 1.2 12.
DIVIDENDS 2008 2007 Group and Company m m Amounts recognised as distributed to equity holders in the year: Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 of 6.51p 2007: 6.20p 23.6 22.4 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of 13.10p 2006: 11.85p 47.5 42.9 71.1 65.3 Dividends of less than 0.1 million 2007: 0.1 million, in respect of the total dividend for 2008 of 6.51p per share, have been waived by the trustee of the employee benefit trust in respect of those shares held under the various long-term incentive plans.
At the time of the payments of the 2007 final and 2008 interim dividends, the directors were of the opinion that the Company had sufficient distributable reserves from which to distribute the dividends.
Subsequently, as a result of the events outlined in the Executive Chairmans Statement and the Business and Financial Review, it has transpired that the Company did not have sufficient distributable reserves to make these distributions.
Annual Report and 57 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 13.
LOSS PER SHARE Basic loss per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding own shares held note 30, which are treated, for this purpose, as being cancelled.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue and the own shares held in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007 has been restated to reect the bonus element associated with the rights issue which took place on 4 June 2008.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, being all options under the Groups Sharesave and Executive Share Option Schemes.
The number of potentially dilutive share options has been adjusted and restated to reect the bonus element associated with the rights issue.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below.
2008 2007 Restated Weighted Weighted average average Restated number of Loss number of Loss Earnings shares per share Earnings shares per share m m pence m m pence Shares in issue in the year 482.2 415.5 Own shares held 0.3 0.8 Basic and diluted EPS 753.6 481.9 156.38 97.7 414.7 23.56 Unexercised options amounted to 11.2 million shares 2007 restated: 0.5 million amounting to 3.45 pence per share 2007 restated: 0.03 pence per share.
GOODWILL Group m Cost At 1 January 2007, 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2008 46.1 Accumulated impairment At 1 January 2007 6.6 Impairment restated 39.5 31 December 2007 restated and 31 December 2008 46.1 Net book amount At 31 December 2008 At 31 December 2007 restated At 1 January 2007 39.5 The recoverable amount of goodwill is determined from value in use calculations.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to loan loss rates and direct costs.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the Groups businesses.
Changes in loan loss rates and direct costs are based on historic experience and expectations of short-term future changes in the market.
The Group prepares a cash ow forecast derived from the approved forecasts for the following three years and extrapolates these using a long-term growth rate.
Using these undiscounted cash ows gives rise to a full impairment of goodwill at 31 December 2007.
Goodwill related entirely to the Groups consumer credit division.
Due to the circumstances outlined in the Executive Chairmans Statement and the Business and Financial Review, the Group has revised its cash ow forecasts for the CGU, which has resulted in a value in use estimate of nil.
The Company had no goodwill.
58 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 15.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Other intangible assets solely comprise computer software.
Group Company Internally generated Acquired Acquired assets assets Total assets m m m m Cost At 1 January 2007 30.9 27.2 58.1 0.1 Additions 18.1 2.6 20.7 Disposals 0.1 0.1 0.1 Reclassications 0.3 0.3 At 1 January 2008 49.3 29.4 78.7 Additions 13.1 2.0 15.1 Disposals 2.0 2.0 At 31 December 2008 62.4 29.4 91.8 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2007 0.8 16.7 17.5 0.1 Charge for the year restated 1.3 2.3 3.6 Impairment 47.2 4.4 51.6 Disposals 0.1 0.1 0.1 At 1 January 2008 restated 49.3 23.3 72.6 Charge for the year 7.0 2.1 9.1 Impairment 6.1 4.2 10.3 Disposals 1.8 1.8 At 31 December 2008 62.4 27.8 90.2 Net book amount At 31 December 2008 1.6 1.6 At 31 December 2007 restated 6.1 6.1 At 1 January 2007 30.1 10.5 40.6 The internally generated computer software principally relates to the cost of developing Welcomes customer relationship management and back-ofce lending systems.
Following the events outlined in the Executive Chairmans Statement and the Business and Financial Review and the subsequent announcement to collect out loans and receivables, the impairment review as at 31 December 2007 has resulted in the restatement of its carrying value to nil.
All amortisation charges for the year have been charged to the income statement through other operating expenses.
Annual Report and 59 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 16.
The net book values of xtures and equipment and motor vehicles include amounts of 7.2 million 2007: 1.3 million and 3.0 million 2007: 4.2 million respectively in respect of assets held by the Group under finance leases and hire purchase contracts.
Included within the depreciation charge shown above was 5.0 million 2007: 1.9 million in respect of assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts.
Leasehold Fixtures land and and Motor buildings equipment vehicles Total Company m m m m Cost At 1 January 2007 0.2 0.7 0.2 1.1 Additions 0.2 0.2 Disposals 0.1 0.1 At 1 January 2008 0.2 0.7 0.3 1.2 Disposals 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2008 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.8 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2007 0.2 0.6 0.1 0.9 Charge for the year 0.1 0.1 Disposals 0.1 0.1 At 1 January 2008 0.2 0.6 0.1 0.9 Charge for the year 0.1 0.1 Disposals 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2008 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.6 Net book amount At 31 December 2008 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 2007 0.1 0.2 0.3 At 1 January 2007 0.1 0.1 0.2 Depreciation has been charged to the Companys income statement through other operating expenses or staff costs in the case of company cars.
The net book value of motor vehicles includes 0.1 million 2007: 0.2 million of assets held by the Company under hire purchase contracts.
The depreciation charge includes 0.1 million 2007: 0.1 million for assets held under hire purchase contracts.
60 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 17.
INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS 2008 2007 Company m m Cost At 1 January 189.8 187.7 Additions 2.9 2.1 At 31 December 192.7 189.8 Provision for diminution in value At 1 January 8.1 8.1 Impairment 183.5 At 31 December 191.6 8.1 Net book amount at 31 December 1.1 181.7 The additions in the year of 2.9 million 2007: 2.1 million relate to share-based payments in respect of employees of the subsidiary undertakings.
As a result of the events outlined in the Executive Chairmans Statement and the Business and Financial Review, all Company investments have been reviewed to determine their future recoverability.
As a result an impairment provision of 183.5 million 2007: nil has been made.
It has not been practically possible, without the use of hindsight, to calculate the amount of impairment of investments in subsidiary undertakings required at 31 December 2007.
All subsidiaries are wholly owned, either directly or indirectly, by Cattles.
The principal operating subsidiary undertakings are shown in note 36.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES Credit risk Credit risk in relation to loans and receivables is the risk that financial loss arises from the failure of a customer to meet their obligations under a loan agreement.
A description of the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing credit risk and how it is measured is set out in the Business and Financial Review in the section entitled Credit risk.
Maximum exposure to credit risk The maximum exposure to credit risk of the Group and Companys loans and receivables is set out in the table below: Group Company Restated Restated 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Welcome 2,184.4 2,223.3 Shopacheck 79.8 101.3 Cattles Invoice Finance 86.6 99.4 Originated loans and receivables 2,350.8 2,424.0 Purchased debt The Lewis Group 153.9 132.9 Intra-group loans 1,251.5 2,659.7 Total loans and receivables 2,504.7 2,556.9 1,251.5 2,659.7 Debt purchase commitments 58.6 93.3 2,563.3 2,650.2 1,251.5 2,659.7 Of the Groups balance of loans and receivables as at 31 December 2008 1,168.4 million 2007 restated: 1,610.1 million is expected to be recovered in more than one year.
Of the Companys loans and receivables, nil 2007 restated: nil is expected to be recovered in more than one year.
The estimated fair value of Group loans and receivables at 31 December 2008 is 1.6 billion.
Fair value has been calculated by discounting expected future cash ows from the loans and receivables at 10%, being the Groups cost of capital plus costs of collection effective at the balance sheet date.
Debt purchase commitments relate to certain contracts with third parties, in which subsidiary undertakings are committed to acquire debt.
These commitments are not included in the loans and receivables detailed in the balance sheet.
It has not been practicably possible, without the use of hindsight, to calculate the amount of impairment of intra-group loans required at 31 December 2007.
Annual Report and 61 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 18.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES continued Credit quality A summary of the arrears status of the Groups loans and receivables by class is shown below as at 31 December 2008 and 2007: Cattles Group Welcome Shopacheck Invoice Finance Total 2008 m m m m Neither past due nor impaired 1,423.2 29.3 82.1 1,534.6 Past due 797.1 67.8 3.2 868.1 Impaired 1,356.0 65.8 2.9 1,424.7 Outstanding customer balance 3,576.3 162.9 88.2 3,827.4 Unamortised fees and costs and accrued interest 167.8 28.6 0.3 196.7 Gross loans and receivables 3,408.5 134.3 87.9 3,630.7 Loan loss provision 1,224.1 54.5 1.3 1,279.9 Originated loans and receivables 2,184.4 79.8 86.6 2,350.8 Purchased debt The Lewis Group 153.9 Total loans and receivables 2,504.7 Following a downward revaluation to 153.9 million 2007: 132.9 million of The Lewis Groups purchased debt portfolios in 2008, because of a reduction in cash collections and as the directors took a more cautious view of the outlook for the UK economy and housing market in particular, as at the date of these financial statements these portfolios are now performing in line with The Lewis Groups expectations.
This debt is in default relative to the original contractual terms between the debtor and the third-party from whom the debt was acquired.
Restated Cattles Restated Welcome Shopacheck Invoice Finance Total 2007 m m m m Neither past due nor impaired 1,572.4 32.4 95.5 1,700.3 Past due 601.2 71.5 2.4 675.1 Impaired 886.7 75.6 4.8 967.1 Outstanding customer balance 3,060.3 179.5 102.7 3,342.5 Unamortised fees and costs and accrued interest 186.1 30.2 0.4 216.7 Gross loans and receivables 2,874.2 149.3 102.3 3,125.8 Loan loss provision 650.9 48.0 2.9 701.8 Originated loans and receivables 2,223.3 101.3 99.4 2,424.0 Purchased debt The Lewis Group 132.9 Total loans and receivables 2,556.9 Past due balances relate to loans which are contractually overdue.
However, Welcomes contractually overdue loans are not specically impaired unless the customer is 120 days in contractual arrears.
Company There are no amounts past due 2007: nil.
An impairment provision of 1,949.0 million 2007: nil has been made to reect the recoverability of this balance.
The carrying value now approximates to fair value.
62 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 Loans and receivables past due Cattles Invoice Group Welcome Finance Total 2008 m m m Past due up to 29 days 282.4 1.0 283.4 Past due 30-59 days 230.5 0.2 230.7 Past due 60-89 days 158.7 0.1 158.8 Past due 90-119 days 125.5 0.8 126.3 Past due 120 days or more 1.1 1.1 797.1 3.2 800.3 Shopacheck 67.8 Total 868.1 As at 31 December 2008, the Group had an IBNR provision of 150 million.
Cattles Restated Invoice Restated Welcome Finance Total 2007 m m m Past due up to 29 days 143.1 0.8 143.9 Past due 30-59 days 221.3 0.2 221.5 Past due 60-89 days 139.0 0.1 139.1 Past due 90-119 days 97.8 0.2 98.0 Past due 120 days or more 1.1 1.1 601.2 2.4 603.6 Shopacheck 71.5 Total 675.1 The above analysis includes loans and receivables that would have been past due or impaired had their terms not been renegotiated.
These loans totalled 286.5 million and nil 2007: 215.2 million and 1.0 million in respect of Welcome and Shopacheck respectively.
Shopacheck receivables of 67.8 million 2007: 71.5 million, which are classied as past due have not been analysed into past due bandings since the collection performance of this type of loan is not managed with reference to the extent of any contractual arrears arising during the entire period of the loan since its inception.
Instead, performance is managed, and the need for any loan loss provision is considered, with reference to the value of contractual payments received in only the preceding 13-week period.
This approach prohibits any meaningful disclosure of the ageing of the debt by reference to its contractual past due status.
Annual Report and 63 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 18.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES continued Collateral The Group holds collateral in relation to certain loans and receivables, further details of which are provided below: a Welcome In accordance with IFRS 7 paragraph 37 c, Welcome does not fair value the collateral held as security in respect of its secured loan and hire purchase receivables.
Secured loans Secured loans are not underwritten based on equity, but on the customers ability to afford the loan repayments, with the emphasis placed on assessing and verifying the customers incomings and outgoings.
Hire purchase Hire purchase loans are advanced to customers for the purchase of used motor vehicles.
The terms of the hire purchase contract allow the customer to voluntarily terminate and allow Welcome to repossess the vehicle, both subject to meeting certain criteria.
A customer may voluntarily terminate the hire purchase contract provided they have paid at least 50% of the contract and have not received a notice of default.
In this instance the vehicle is returned to Welcome and disposed of, with the proceeds offset against the customers outstanding balance.
Any remaining balance is written off.
Legally, Welcome may repossess a vehicle nanced on a hire purchase contract, provided the customer has paid less than one third of the contract and a notice of default has been issued.
Welcome endeavours to negotiate arrangements with the customer to avoid the need for repossession.
Vehicles that are repossessed are promptly disposed of at auction and the proceeds offset against the customers outstanding balance.
The customer is liable for any remaining balance.
Maturity prole of hire purchase receivables The Groups gross investment in hire purchase receivables is analysed in the table below: Restated Present Carrying Present Carrying value value value value 2008 2008 2007 2007 m m m m Within one year 333.8 431.2 277.2 399.5 One to five years 409.3 507.2 456.0 567.1 Over five years 54.4 65.3 22.8 27.6 797.5 1,003.7 756.0 994.2 Unearned future finance income 206.2 238.2 Loan loss provision 339.3 339.3 172.8 172.8 Present value of future lease payments 458.2 458.2 583.2 583.2 The Group provided hire purchase facilities to customers purchasing cars from Welcome Car Finance.
Under the terms of the hire purchase agreements, no unguaranteed residual values are accruing to the Company and no contingent rents are payable.
b Cattles Invoice Finance In addition to the value of the underlying assigned sales ledger balances, Cattles Invoice Finance will wherever possible obtain additional security before offering invoice finance facilities to a client.
These include limited personal guarantees from major shareholders, charges over personal and other business property, cross guarantees from associated companies, and unlimited warranties in the case of frauds.
These additional forms of security are impracticable to fair value as valuations of the guarantees or warranties are not capable of being accurately determined at any point during the agreement.
64 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 Loan loss provision The following tables provide an analysis of the movement in the Groups loan loss provision during 2008 and 2007: Cattles Invoice Group Welcome Shopacheck Finance Total 2008 m m m m At 1 January 2008 restated 650.9 48.0 2.9 701.8 Utilised 167.8 49.7 4.2 221.7 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 3.7 1.7 0.1 5.5 Charged to the income statement: Additional provisions created 741.0 56.2 2.6 799.8 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 3.7 1.7 0.1 5.5 Total loan loss charge 737.3 54.5 2.5 794.3 Loan loss provision at 31 December 2008 1,224.1 54.5 1.3 1,279.9 Cattles Restated Invoice Restated Welcome Shopacheck Finance Total 2007 m m m m At 1 January 2007 restated 451.5 34.6 2.2 488.3 Utilised 181.6 33.1 1.9 216.6 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 13.0 1.2 0.1 14.3 Charged to the income statement: Additional provisions created restated 381.0 46.5 2.6 430.1 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 13.0 1.2 0.1 14.3 Total loan loss charge 368.0 45.3 2.5 415.8 Loan loss provision at 31 December 2007 650.9 48.0 2.9 701.8 19.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Trade receivables 2.9 5.2 Loan to the employee benefit trust 0.3 0.8 Other receivables 5.4 27.8 1.5 0.4 Prepayments and accrued income 5.4 11.1 1.6 1.4 13.7 44.1 3.4 2.6 Comprising: Non-current 1.1 0.8 Current 13.7 44.1 2.3 1.8 13.7 44.1 3.4 2.6 Analysis of the arrears status of the Groups trade receivables, prepayments and accrued income and the Companys loan to the employee benefit trust has not been presented as the amounts concerned are not material.
The loan to the employee benefit trust is recoverable in more than one year.
The Group and Companys other receivables at 31 December 2008 and 2007 are considered neither past due nor impaired.
Annual Report and 65 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 20.
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 28% 2007: 28%.
All of the deferred tax liabilities are available for offset against deferred tax assets and hence the deferred tax asset at each balance sheet date is shown net.
The Group and Company has not recognised a deferred tax asset of 224.6 million 2007 restated: 16.4 million in the financial statements, as it is not considered likely that there will be suitable future taxable profits.
The movements in the deferred tax account are shown below: Group Company Accelerated Other Other tax temporary temporary depreciation differences Total differences m m m m At 1 January 2007 2.2 17.9 15.7 10.0 Recognised in income restated 2.8 2.3 0.5 0.7 Recognised in equity restated 3.9 3.9 At 1 January 2008 5.0 16.3 11.3 10.7 Recognised in income 5.0 8.4 3.4 10.7 Recognised in equity 6.3 6.3 At 31 December 2008 1.6 1.6 21.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS A description of how the Group is exposed to interest rate and currency risk in relation to its borrowings, as well as details on the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing these risks during 2008 and how they are measured, is set out in the Business and Financial Review.
Details are also given in relation to the counterparty credit risk associated with the Groups derivative financial instruments in the section entitled Credit risk.
During 2009, all of the Groups interest rate risk and currency risk financial hedging instruments were closed out at their market values and converted into on-demand loans with the bank counterparties.
This step was taken in conjunction with the signing of the Equalisation Agreement and subsequent SEA in 2009, further details of which are set out in the Business and Financial Review.
Interest rate risk At 31 December 2008, the Group and the Company held interest rate swaps covering oating rate bank borrowings of 1.1 billion 2007: 1.0 billion, effectively xing the associated cost of interest at rates between 4.37% and 6.06% 2007: 4.01% and 5.72%.
Throughout 2008, all of the interest rate financial instruments were designated as cash ow hedges.
Foreign currency risk All foreign currency denominated borrowings were immediately swapped into sterling at the commencement of the facility agreement and any exposure to movements in foreign currency rates, were hedged.
In 2009, all derivative assets and liabilities were converted into on-demand loans of 85.7 million with bank counterparties.
Of the Group and the Companys cross-currency swaps as at 31 December 2008, 48.1 million 2007: 75.5 million are designated as fair value hedges and, as a consequence, the change in the fair values of these swaps is recorded in the income statement within interest expense, together with the change in the fair values of US Dollar denominated tranches of a private placing which the swaps have hedged.
The remaining 47.2 million 2007: 47.2 million of cross-currency swaps are designated as cash ow hedges and were taken out to hedge against the interest and currency risk associated with US Dollar and Euro denominated tranches of a private placing.
66 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 The following table shows the fair value of derivative financial instruments, as well as their notional amounts that equal the amount of the associated borrowing: 2008 2007 Notional Notional amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities Group and Company m m m m m m Interest rate swaps 1,140.0 90.1 1,010.0 3.0 9.1 Interest rate caps and collars 10.0 0.1 Cross-currency swaps 95.3 17.1 122.7 0.2 26.1 1,235.3 17.1 90.1 1,142.7 3.3 35.2 Comprising: Current 1.0 0.6 7.8 Non-current 17.1 89.1 2.7 27.4 17.1 90.1 3.3 35.2 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the derivative assets in the balance sheet.
In 2009 all derivative assets and liabilities were converted into on-demand loans with the bank counterparties.
The Company does not hold any other derivatives or embedded derivatives which require separate accounting for in accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition & measurement.
The Group has identied a derivative within a contract held by a subsidiary undertaking, the effect of 1.6 million is included in interest expense and within note 24, trade and other payables.
Liquidity risk The contractual maturities of the Group and Companys derivatives as at the balance sheet date are analysed in the tables below.
The amounts shown are the contractual undiscounted cash ows.
Up to 3 312 12 23 34 45 Over 5 Group and Company months months years years years years years Total 2008 m m m m m m m m Derivatives settled on a net basis: Interest rate swaps 3.1 28.9 29.6 18.6 12.1 3.8 5.3 101.4 Derivatives settled on a gross basis: Cross-currency swaps Outow 0.7 4.7 5.4 64.8 2.1 36.2 113.9 Inow 1.8 5.4 7.2 69.4 2.7 45.8 132.3 2007 Derivatives settled on a net basis: Interest rate swaps 1.3 0.3 3.4 2.7 1.9 1.8 2.5 11.3 Derivatives settled on a gross basis: Cross-currency swaps Outow 0.7 36.0 6.4 6.5 65.6 2.1 36.2 153.5 Inow 1.3 25.5 5.2 5.2 50.1 1.9 33.0 122.2 Cash ow hedges The following table shows the impact of the Group and Companys cash ow hedges on the income statement and equity during the year: Restated 2008 2007 Group and Company m m Amount recognised in equity Amount removed from equity via the income statement within interest expense Ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement within interest expense 84.7 18.2 Fair value hedges The following table shows the impact of the Group and Companys fair value hedges on the balance sheet and the income statement during the year: Restated 2008 2007 Group and Company m m Gains on the hedging instruments Losses on the hedged borrowings Ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement within interest expense 0.1 Annual Report and 67 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 21.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued Sensitivity analysis An increase in LIBOR by one percentage point would have an adverse impact on profit for the year of 5.7 million 2007: 1.9 million and a favourable impact on profit of 38.6 million 2007: 34.1 million.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 6.8 20.6 4.5 7.4 Fixed interest bank deposits 2.9 29.2 9.7 49.8 4.5 7.4 All bank deposits have a maturity of one month.
A description of how the Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk in relation to its cash and cash equivalents, as well as details on the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing this risk and how it is measured, is set out in the Business and Financial Review in the section entitled Credit risk.
BORROWINGS Group Company Restated Restated 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Current Bank borrowings and overdrafts 1,683.2 1,351.4 1,724.9 1,351.4 Other borrowings 1,029.4 963.6 1,028.5 962.8 Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 4.1 2.0 Intra-group borrowings 66.6 51.7 2,716.7 2,317.0 2,820.0 2,365.9 Non-current Bank borrowings Other borrowings 21.9 2.4 20.4 Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 6.8 4.0 0.1 0.2 28.7 6.4 20.5 0.2 Total borrowings 2,745.4 2,323.4 2,840.5 2,366.1 Following the breaches of covenants relating to a number of the above borrowings, all related borrowings at 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007 became repayable on demand.
As a result the 2007 balances have been restated.
Bank borrowings comprise a number of syndicated, bilateral and term loans as analysed below.
During 2008, each of these facilities incurred interest at oating rates based on a xed margin over oating rate LIBOR.
This xed margin varied between 1% and 3% dependent on the facility, with the majority of existing bank funding carrying a xed margin of 1% or 1.25%.
None of the bank borrowings are secured.
Debt securities in issue and other borrowings for the Group, none of which are secured, comprised: a A sterling bond with a carrying amount of 386.2 million 2007: 371.1 million.
The bond has a par value of 350 million but was issued at a 0.227% discount, realising net proceeds of 347.6 million.
The bond has a xed rate of interest of 7.875% and is redeemable at par in January 2014.
The carrying amount reects the unamortised discount, the increase in financial liabilities following step up in interest and accrued interest of 0.4 million, 13.5 million and 23.1 million respectively.
b A sterling bond with a carrying amount of 433.2 million 2007: 408.4 million.
The bond has a par value of 400 million but was issued at a 0.931% discount, realising net proceeds of 394.3 million.
The bond has a xed rate of interest of 8.125% and is redeemable at par in July 2017.
The carrying amount reects the unamortised discount, the increase in financial liabilities following step up in interest and accrued interest of 5.1 million, 24.2 million and 14.1 million respectively.
c A US private placing with a carrying amount of 126.4 million 2007: 125.0 million.
The placing raised $70 million 8.53% unsecured notes redeemable at par in December 2011, 30 million 8.64% unsecured notes redeemable at par in December 2011 and 40 million 8.80% unsecured notes redeemable at par in December 2016, as well as $40 million 7.15% unsecured notes which were redeemed in December 2008.
The carrying amount reects hedging adjustments, the increase in financial liabilities following step up in interest and accrued interest of 3.8 million, 4.3 million and 0.2 million respectively.
68 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 d A US private placing with a carrying amount of 82.9 million 2007: 63.3 million.
The placing raised $20 million 7.17% unsecured notes redeemable at par in February 2011, $55 million 7.25% unsecured notes redeemable at par in February 2013, 6 million 5.62% unsecured notes redeemable at par in February 2013, 1 million 6.89% unsecured notes redeemable at par in February 2013 and 20 million 6.94% unsecured loan notes redeemable at par in February 2021.
The carrying amount reects hedging adjustments, the increase in financial liabilities following step up in interest and accrued interest of 10.8 million, 3.4 million and 0.5 million respectively.
e A xed rate 6.39% loan with a carrying amount of 2.4 million 2007: 3.2 million.
The loan is repayable in quarterly instalments by September 2011. f Five xed rate loans, bearing interest at rates of between 6.43% and 6.75%, with a total carrying amount of 26.0 million 2007: nil, including accrued interest of 0.3 million.
The loans are repayable in quarterly instalments by March 2013. g 1.5 million 2007: 1.5 million 4% unsecured loan notes redeemable at par during 2009.
All the unsecured debt securities in issue and other borrowings described above relate to the Company, except for the loan referred to in part e. Following the breach of covenants, the terms above were all superseded as all debt securities and borrowings became repayable on demand as at 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2008.
Liquidity risk A description of how the Group is exposed to liquidity risk in relation to its borrowings from banks, and debt securities in issue and other borrowings, as well as details on the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing liquidity risk and how it is measured, is set out in the Business and Financial Review in the section titled Liquidity risk.
The contractual maturities of the Group and Companys borrowings from banks, debt securities in issue and other borrowings, including both capital and interest payments, are analysed below.
The amounts shown, therefore, do not reconcile to the Group and Companys balance sheets.
On Up to 3 312 12 23 34 45 Over 5 Group demand months months years years years years years Total 2008 m m m m m m m m m Bank overdrafts 1.8 1.8 Bank borrowings 1,681.4 1,681.4 Other borrowings 1,023.2 6.2 21.9 1,051.3 2,706.4 6.2 21.9 2,734.5 2007 Restated Bank overdrafts 14.0 14.0 Bank borrowings 1,337.4 1,337.4 Other borrowings 963.6 2.4 966.0 2,315.0 2.4 2,317.4 On Up to 3 312 12 23 34 45 Over 5 Company demand months months years years years years years Total 2008 m m m m m m m m m Bank overdrafts 43.5 43.5 Bank borrowings 1,681.4 1,681.4 Other borrowings 1,023.2 5.3 20.4 1,048.9 2,748.1 5.3 20.4 2,773.8 2007 Restated Bank overdrafts 14.0 14.0 Bank borrowings 1,337.4 1,337.4 Other borrowings 962.8 962.8 2,314.2 2,314.2 Intra-group borrowings are repayable on demand Annual Report and 69 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 23.
BORROWINGS continued Bank facilities The committed bank facilities available to the Group and the Company at 31 December 2008 were: Total Undrawn Original contractual facility facility Type maturity period Established m m Overdraft Renewable annually 13.4 11.6 Syndicate July 2009 2004 500.0 Bilateral December 2009 2008 135.0 50.0 Syndicate April 2010 2008 97.5 Syndicate April 2011 2008 97.5 2.0 Syndicate July 2011 2006 15.0 Bilateral July 2011 2004 75.0 Loan April 2012 2005 5.5 Syndicate July 2012 2006 785.0 Syndicate April 2013 2008 20.0 1,743.9 63.6 Utilisation from each syndicated and bilateral facility is by money market renewable term loans or acceptances which are rolled over in one year or less.
Principal covenants The Group and the Company must comply with principal lending covenants in respect of the ratio of total borrowings to tangible net worth and the ratio of profit before interest and tax to net interest payable.
Details of these covenants are set out in the Business and Financial Review in the section titled Capital risk.
As set out in the Executive Chairmans Statement, on 10 March 2009 the Company believed it was in breach of covenants under its borrowing arrangements.
The financial creditors therefore had the right to demand immediate repayment of their loans.
Fair values of non-derivative financial instruments The following table summarises the carrying values and fair values of those financial instruments not recognised in the balance sheet of the Group and Company at fair value, except for those financial instruments being other assets, prepayments, bank overdrafts, other liabilities, accruals, intra-group receivables and payables, and obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts whose carrying values approximate to their fair values.
2008 2007 Restated Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value Group m m m m Borrowings from banks 1,683.2 1,677.9 1,351.4 1,294.8 Other borrowings 1,051.3 1,013.1 966.0 980.1 Company Borrowings from banks 1,724.9 1,719.6 1,351.4 1,294.8 Other borrowings 1,048.9 1,010.7 962.8 976.9 The fair values of borrowings from banks and debt securities and other borrowings are calculated by discounting expected future cash ows.
Expected future cash ows are derived using interest rates reected in yield curves available at each balance sheet date and at exchange rates prevailing at each balance sheet date.
70 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts Of the Group and Companys balances of obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts as at 31 December, 6.8 million and 0.1 million 2007: 4.0 million and 0.2 million respectively are expected to be settled in more than one year.
The Group and Companys gross obligations for motor vehicles acquired under hire purchase contracts and computer hardware acquired under finance lease agreements are as follows: Group Company Gross and Gross and Present Present present present value Gross value Gross value value 2008 2008 2007 2007 2008 2007 m m m m m m Gross lease payments: Not later than one year 4.6 2.1 Later than one year but not more than five 7.5 4.4 0.1 0.2 12.1 6.5 0.1 0.2 Future finance charges 1.2 0.5 Present value of minimum lease payments 14.3 10.9 6.0 6.0 0.1 0.2 Liquidity risk The contractual maturities of the Group and Companys obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts, including both capital and interest payments, are analysed below.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Current Trade payables 19.0 18.3 0.4 0.5 Other taxes and social security 6.6 6.3 0.2 Other payables 3.6 3.9 0.2 Accruals 30.3 25.4 5.1 3.2 59.5 53.9 5.5 4.1 Non-current Other taxes and social security 0.2 0.2 Other payables 4.8 11.5 13.6 11.5 4.8 11.7 13.6 11.7 Total trade and other payables 64.3 65.6 19.1 15.8 All trade payables have a maturity of within one month.
An analysis of the contractual maturities of the Group and Companys other taxes and social security liability and other payables have not been presented as the amounts are not material in the context of the Group and Companys total liabilities.
Annual Report and 71 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 25.
PROVISIONS 2008 2007 Group m m Current Property dilapidations 0.8 Other provisions 15.8 16.6 Non-current Property dilapidations 2.1 2.2 Other provisions 78.1 80.2 2.2 Total provisions 96.8 2.2 Property dilapidations relate to the estimated future cost of rectifying dilapidations for the leasehold properties occupied by the Group.
The provision is expected to be utilised within four years from the balance sheet date.
Other provisions have been recognised in 2008 and relate to the estimation of subsidiary undertakings potential future costs arising as a result of certain product sales.
As permitted by IAS 37 paragraph 92, certain disclosures required by that standard have not been provided.
The Company had no provisions 2007: nil.
72 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 26.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The following table sets out the carrying value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities in accordance with the categories of financial instruments set out in IAS 39.
Assets outside the scope of IAS 39 are shown within non-financial assets liabilities.
2008 At fair value Loans and Amortised through profit Non-financial receivables cost or loss assets liabilities Total Group m m m m m ASSETS Non-current assets Other intangible assets 1.6 1.6 Property, plant and equipment 22.2 22.2 Loans and receivables 1,168.4 1,168.4 Deferred tax assets 1.6 1.6 Derivative financial instruments 17.1 17.1 1,168.4 17.1 25.4 1,210.9 Current assets Inventories 7.0 7.0 Loans and receivables 1,336.3 1,336.3 Current tax assets 85.1 85.1 Trade and other receivables 8.3 5.4 13.7 Cash and cash equivalents 9.7 9.7 1,354.3 97.5 1,451.8 Total assets 2,522.7 17.1 122.9 2,662.7 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Borrowings 2,716.7 2,716.7 Derivative financial instruments 1.0 1.0 Trade and other payables 52.9 6.6 59.5 Deferred income 33.1 33.1 Provisions 16.6 16.6 2,802.7 1.0 23.2 2,826.9 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 28.7 28.7 Derivative financial instruments 89.1 89.1 Trade and other payables 4.8 4.8 Deferred income 29.4 29.4 Provisions 80.2 80.2 Retirement benefit obligation 15.0 15.0 62.9 89.1 95.2 247.2 Total liabilities 2,865.6 90.1 118.4 3,074.1 Annual Report and 73 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 26.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued The following table sets out the carrying value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities in accordance with the categories of financial instruments set out in IAS 39.
2007 restated At fair value Loans and Amortised through profit Non-financial receivables cost or loss assets liabilities Total m m m m m ASSETS Non-current assets Other intangible assets 6.1 6.1 Property, plant and equipment 22.5 22.5 Loans and receivables 1,610.1 1,610.1 Deferred tax assets 11.3 11.3 Derivative financial instruments 2.7 2.7 1,610.1 2.7 39.9 1,652.7 Current assets Inventories 12.6 12.6 Loans and receivables 946.8 946.8 Current tax assets 41.5 41.5 Trade and other receivables 33.0 11.1 44.1 Derivative financial instruments 0.6 0.6 Cash and cash equivalents 49.8 49.8 1,029.6 0.6 65.2 1,095.4 Total assets 2,639.7 3.3 105.1 2,748.1 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Borrowings 2,317.0 2,317.0 Derivative financial instruments 7.8 7.8 Trade and other payables 47.6 6.3 53.9 Deferred income 27.5 27.5 Provisions 2,392.1 7.8 6.3 2,406.2 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 6.4 6.4 Derivative financial instruments 27.4 27.4 Trade and other payables 11.5 0.2 11.7 Deferred income 45.8 45.8 Provisions 2.2 2.2 Retirement benefit obligation 14.1 14.1 63.7 27.4 16.5 107.6 Total liabilities 2,455.8 35.2 22.8 2,513.8 74 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 The following table sets out the carrying value of the Companys financial assets and liabilities in accordance with the categories of financial instruments set out in IAS 39.
2008 At fair value Loans and Amortised through profit Non-financial receivables cost or loss assets liabilities Total Company m m m m m ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.2 Investments in subsidiary undertakings 1.1 1.1 Trade and other receivables 1.1 1.1 Derivative financial instruments 17.1 17.1 1.1 17.1 1.3 19.5 Current assets Loans and receivables 1,251.5 1,251.5 Trade and other receivables 0.7 1.6 2.3 Cash and cash equivalents 4.5 4.5 1,256.7 1.6 1,258.3 Total assets 1,257.8 17.1 2.9 1,277.8 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Borrowings 2,820.0 2,820.0 Current tax liabilities 1.0 1.0 Derivative financial instruments 1.0 1.0 Trade and other payables 5.5 5.5 2,825.5 1.0 1.0 2,827.5 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 20.5 20.5 Derivative financial instruments 89.1 89.1 Trade and other payables 13.6 13.6 Retirement benefit obligation 15.0 15.0 34.1 89.1 15.0 138.2 Total liabilities 2,859.6 90.1 16.0 2,965.7 Annual Report and 75 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 26.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued The following table sets out the carrying value of the Companys financial assets and liabilities in accordance with the categories of financial instruments set out in IAS 39.
2007 restated At fair value Loans and Amortised through profit Non-financial receivables cost or loss assets liabilities Total Company m m m m m ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.3 Investments in subsidiary undertakings 181.7 181.7 Trade and other receivables 0.8 0.8 Deferred tax assets 10.7 10.7 Derivative financial instruments 2.7 2.7 0.8 2.7 192.7 196.2 Current assets Loans and receivables 2,659.7 2,659.7 Trade and other receivables 0.4 1.4 1.8 Derivative financial instruments 0.6 0.6 Cash and cash equivalents 7.4 7.4 2,667.5 0.6 1.4 2,669.5 Total assets 2,668.3 3.3 194.1 2,865.7 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Borrowings 2,365.9 2,365.9 Current tax liabilities 29.6 29.6 Derivative financial instruments 7.8 7.8 Trade and other payables 4.1 4.1 2,370.0 7.8 29.6 2,407.4 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 0.2 0.2 Derivative financial instruments 27.4 27.4 Trade and other payables 11.6 0.1 11.7 Retirement benefit obligation 14.1 14.1 11.8 27.4 14.2 53.4 Total liabilities 2,381.8 35.2 43.8 2,460.8 76 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 27.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATION The Group and Company operate both dened benefit and dened contribution pension plans.
Dened contribution post-employment benefit plans The Group operates a number of dened contribution personal pension plans for new employees and for existing employees who are not members of the dened benefit scheme.
The expense recognised by the Group and the Company for the dened contribution plans is 1.7 million 2007: 1.6 million and 0.3 million 2007: 0.2 million respectively.
Dened benefit post-employment benefit plan The Group and Company operates a funded dened benefit scheme for certain employees, providing benets based on final salary.
The assets of the scheme are held in a separate trustee-administered fund.
Contributions to the scheme are assessed in accordance with the advice of an independent qualied actuary using the projected unit method.
The scheme was closed to new applicants from 1998.
The retirement benefit obligation, which is expected to be settled in more than one year, is analysed as: 2008 2007 Group and Company m m Present value of plan liabilities 68.0 72.9 Fair value of plan assets 53.0 58.8 Retirement benefit obligation 15.0 14.1 The amounts charged in the Group and Companys income statement in respect of the dened benefit plan are as follows: 2008 2007 m m Current service cost i 1.4 1.4 Interest cost 4.1 3.9 Expected return on plan assets 4.5 3.8 Total dened benefit pension expense note 8 1.0 1.5 i Current service cost is net of employee contributions.
The dened benefit pension expense is included in staff costs in the income statement.
The total return on plan assets was a loss of 12.9 million, 17.4 million lower than that assumed 2007: the total return was 4.3 million, 0.5 million in excess of that assumed.
The cumulative actuarial gains and losses before deferred tax recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense in respect of the dened benefit plan are as follows: 2008 2007 m m Net actuarial losses gains recognised in the year 9.9 8.0 Cumulative net actuarial gains losses recognised at start of year 5.0 3.0 Cumulative net actuarial losses gains recognised at end of year 4.9 5.0 Annual Report and 77 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 27.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATION continued Principal actuarial assumptions used 2008 2007 % % Ination rate 3.0 3.3 Expected rate of salary increases i 3.0 4.8 Expected rate of pension increases ii 2.9 3.2 Discount rate 6.2 5.8 Proportion of members that will take maximum tax free cash allowance on retirement 75.0 75.0 Expected return on plan assets 6.8 7.2 Analysed as: Equities 7.9 8.2 Bonds 5.1 5.0 Cash 4.0 5.5 2008 2007 Number of years that a current pensioner is expected to live beyond 65: Men 22.2 20.7 Women 24.7 23.2 Number of years that a future pensioner, currently aged 50, is expected to live beyond 65: Men 23.2 21.7 Women 25.6 24.0 i In addition, allowance is made for scale of age related promotional increases.
ii In excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP element.
The expected return on plan assets assumptions reect the actual split of the plans assets into the different types of underlying investments and are based on the following: Equities The best estimate return on the funds equity portfolio based on an asset model provided by the funds investment advisers.
Bonds Gross redemption yields on both government and corporate bonds at the balance sheet date, weighted by the holding in each class.
Cash Yield on long-term cash investments at the balance sheet date.
Sensitivities The sensitivity of plan liabilities and pension expense to changes in certain key assumptions are as follows: Estimated Estimated Assumption increase increase Assumption change Impact on % m Discount rate Reduce by 0.5% Plan liabilities 10 6.8 Pension expense 40 0.4 Expected rate of salary increases Increase by 0.5% Plan liabilities 1 1.0 Pension expense 20 0.2 Changes in the present value of the plan liabilities are as follows: 2008 2007 m m Present value of plan liabilities at start of year 72.9 78.1 Current service cost 1.4 1.4 Interest cost 4.1 3.9 Contributions by plan participants 0.3 0.3 Actuarial gain 7.5 7.5 benefit payments 3.2 3.3 Present value of plan liabilities at end of year 68.0 72.9 78 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 Sensitivities continued Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2008 2007 m m Fair value of plan assets at start of year 58.8 54.3 Expected return on plan assets 4.5 3.8 Actuarial loss gain 17.4 0.5 Contributions by plan participants 0.3 0.3 Contributions by the employer 10.0 3.2 benefit payments 3.2 3.3 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 53.0 58.8 The fair value of plan assets at the balance sheet date is analysed as follows: 2008 2007 m m Equities 31.9 40.1 Fixed interest bonds 20.9 18.2 Cash 0.2 0.5 53.0 58.8 The plan assets do not include any of the Companys own financial instruments, other than within the UK equity index tracking funds held, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
The history of the plan is as follows: 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 m m m m m Present value of plan liabilities 67.3 81.4 78.1 72.9 68.0 Fair value of plan assets 38.4 46.7 54.3 58.8 53.0 Retirement benefit obligation 28.9 34.7 23.8 14.1 15.0 Experience gain loss on dened benefit obligation 5.2 11.4 4.4 7.5 7.5 Experience loss gain on plan assets 1.5 4.6 3.1 0.5 17.4 Net actuarial loss gain recognised in the year 3.7 6.8 7.5 8.0 9.9 As a result of the actuarial valuation of the Groups dened benefit pension scheme undertaken as at 31 March 2007, the Group has agreed a revised schedule of additional shortfall contributions with the schemes trustees, effective from June 2008.
The first shortfall contribution under this revised schedule of 4.0 million was paid during June 2008, followed by a second contribution of 3.9 million in July 2008.
Three further shortfall contributions of 2.45 million each will be payable in March 2009, 2010 and 2011.
The payment due in March 2009 was made in December 2009 and the payment due in March 2010 was made in March 2010.
In addition, the Group has agreed to make normal employer contributions from 1 July 2008 of 4.5 times members contributions to meet the ongoing cost of accrual.
The total amount of these employer contributions paid during 2009 was 1.0 million.
Following the sale of Cattles Invoice Finance Limited on 14 September 2009, an additional payment of 3.1 million was paid into the plan in November 2009.
Members contribute at the rate of either 3% or 5% of pensionable salaries, depending on their membership status.
The amount of employee contributions paid during 2009 was 0.2 million.
Impact of IFRIC 14 The Group has established its interpretation of IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a dened benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and agreed with the plans auditors that it has had no impact on the value of the Groups and Companys retirement benefit obligation as at 31 December 2008.
Annual Report and 79 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 28.
SHARE CAPITAL Group and Company Number m Authorised ordinary shares of 10p each At 1 January 2007, 1 January 2008 and 31 December 2008 700,000,000 70.0 Allotted, called up and fully paid ordinary shares of 10p each At 1 January 2007 329,732,935 33.0 Issue of new shares through placing 32,978,986 3.3 Exercise of options 92,839 At 1 January 2008 362,804,760 36.3 Issue of new shares through rights issue 163,262,142 16.3 At 31 December 2008 526,066,902 52.6 On 4 June 2008 the Company issued 163,262,142 ordinary shares for a total consideration before costs of 208.9 million through a rights issue.
The rights attached to the ordinary shares are as follows: Voting On a show of hands every ordinary shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting of the Company and every proxy appointed by an ordinary shareholder and present at a general meeting of the Company shall have one vote and on a poll every ordinary shareholder who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share held.
Dividends Ordinary shareholders shall be entitled to receive such dividend as the Company by ordinary resolution may from time to time declare as a final dividend such dividend not to exceed the amount recommended by the Board or as the Board may from time to time declare as an interim dividend.
No dividend may be paid other than out of profits available for distribution.
Return of capital on a winding-up Ordinary shareholders are entitled to participate in any surplus assets on the winding-up of the Company in proportion to their shareholdings.
Capital risk The Groups objective in managing capital was to aim to maintain a strong capital base to support current and planned operations.
The Group is not currently subject to external regulatory risk-based capital requirements.
In 2008, it was, however, required under certain of its funding agreements, to ensure that its gearing ratio did not exceed six times.
For this purpose gearing is calculated as the ratio of consolidated borrowings to tangible net assets.
The precise denition of borrowings used in the calculation varies according to the funding agreement, but is broadly consistent with that disclosed in the consolidated balance sheet.
Adjustment is made to exclude items such as accrued interest, unamortised discount and fees, and net off certain bank deposits.
Tangible net assets are based on net assets equivalent to total shareholders equity less goodwill and other intangible assets.
As a result of the restatement of the Groups 2007 results, at the 2008 year end the Groups shareholders funds excluding goodwill and other intangible assets was negative, putting it in breach of its gearing covenant limit of six times.
Depending on the specic funding agreement, reporting against this covenant was carried out on a quarterly, semi-annual or annual basis throughout 2008.
In addition, the gearing level was monitored internally on a monthly basis and included in the Groups forecasts.
Prior to the impairment issues and the restatement of the 2007 results, the Group aimed to maintain the capital base which includes share capital, share premium, other reserves and retained earnings so that, at all times, the gearing level was below the covenant limit.
The Groups capital is disclosed above.
The steps being taken by the Board to restore the capital base of the Company are disclosed in note 37 to the financial statements.
80 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 29.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS As explained in note 28, the Company issued new shares through a rights issue on 4 June 2008.
The rights issue resulted in a restatement of the exercise prices and the number of shares under option in respect of the Groups Executive Share Option Schemes and Employee Sharesave Scheme.
This restatement has been reected in the tables below for both the Group and the Company.
During 2008, the Group granted new options under the Employee Sharesave Scheme, which gave employees who were members of the 2005 and 2007 Schemes the option to cancel their existing savings contracts and take out a savings contract in the 2008 Scheme.
These replacement options were accounted for as a modication as set out in the accounting policy on share-based payments.
a Group The Group recognised a total charge of 2.0 million 2007: 4.9 million related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions during the year ended 31 December 2008.
Annual Report and 81 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 29.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued a Group continued A reconciliation of option movements during the year is shown below: 2008 2007 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise price price Number pence Number pence Outstanding at 1 January 2,692,767 241.73 1,373,733 262.84 Granted 17,261,921 46.60 1,183,991 298.20 Exercised 92,839 247.22 Expired 1,998,193 222.40 159,628 251.77 Outstanding at 31 December 17,956,495 56.30 2,305,257 282.40 Outstanding at 31 December restated 2,692,767 241.73 Exercisable at 31 December 376,957 255.39 117,300 339.46 Exercisable at 31 December restated 137,015 290.58 On 31 October 2008, 17,261,921 options were granted 2007: 1,183,991 with an estimated fair value of less than 0.1 million 2007: 0.5 million.
No options were exercised in the year.
The weighted average share price during 2007 for options exercised in that year was 383p.
Shares issued under long-term incentive plans and Share Incentive Plan The Group has a number of long-term incentive plans for directors and senior executives.
Details of each plan are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
During the year 3,030,504 shares 2007: 2,042,404 shares with an estimated fair value of 2.7 million 2007: 6.2 million were awarded to directors and senior executives under these plans.
The Group also operates a Share Incentive Plan which is open to all eligible UK employees, including executive directors, and is an HMRC approved all-employee scheme.
During the year 1,475,449 shares 2007: 572,167 shares with an estimated fair value of 2.0 million 2007: 1.8 million were awarded to staff, including directors and senior executives under the Share Incentive Plan.
b Company The Company recognised a total charge of 0.2 million 2007: 2.8 million related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions during the year ended 31 December 2008.
Equity-settled share option schemes Outstanding options under the Cattles Executive Share Option Scheme 1994, the Cattles Executive Share Option Scheme 1996 and the Cattles Employee Sharesave Scheme at 31 December 2008 are as follows: Restated Exercise Restated price Exercise 2008 2007 Period granted pence period Number Number Executive Share Option Schemes 1998 206.93 2001 2008 2,803 1999 311.49 2002 2009 4,672 4,672 4,672 7,475 Employee Sharesave Scheme 2003 244.47 2008 2009 21,925 32,424 2005 208.17 2010 2011 4,330 29,752 2007 255.25 2010 2011 1,127 13,804 2007 255.25 2012 2013 6,474 47,612 2008 46.60 2011 2012 287,576 2008 46.60 2013 2014 245,856 567,288 123,592 571,960 131,067 82 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 b Company continued The outstanding share options may be analysed by range of exercise prices as follows: 2008 2007 Restated Restated Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average Range of exercise exercise price remaining life exercise price Restated remaining life prices pence pence Number years pence Number years 46.60 199.00 46.60 533,432 4.34 200.00 249.00 238.48 26,255 0.75 226.23 64,979 2.31 250.00 299.00 255.25 7,601 4.12 255.25 61,416 4.97 300.00 311.49 311.49 4,672 0.25 311.49 4,672 1.25 60.34 571,960 4.14 242.87 131,067 3.52 A reconciliation of option movements during the year is shown below: 2008 2007 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise price price Number pence Number pence Outstanding at 1 January 131,067 242.87 59,629 270.98 Granted 533,432 46.60 52,579 298.20 Expired 92,539 239.63 Outstanding at 31 December 571,960 60.34 112,208 283.74 Outstanding at 31 December restated 131,067 242.87 Exercisable at 31 December 26,597 256.24 6,400 318.13 Exercisable at 31 December restated 7,475 272.28 On 31 October 2008 533,432 options were granted 2007: 52,579 with an estimated fair value of less than 0.1 million 2007: 0.1 million.
No options were exercised in the year 2007: nil.
Fair value of share-based payments The fair values of all share-based payments arising from share awards in relation to both the Group and the Company have been estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The assumptions used in the fair value calculations relating to share awards, which have not vested by 31 December 2008 are as follows: Arrangement Employee Sharesave Scheme Grant of Grant of Grant of Grant of Grant of Grant of Nature of arrangement options options options options options options Grant date 1.10.03 25.10.05 26.10.07 26.10.07 31.10.08 31.10.08 Share price at grant date 327p 271p 342p 342p 32.75p 32.75p Exercise price at grant date 285.6p 243.2p 298.2p 298.2p 46.6p 46.6p Restated exercise price following rights issue 244.47p 208.17p 255.25p 255.25p N A N A Shares under option at grant date 755,683 878,109 428,511 755,480 7,188,410 10,073,511 Vesting period years 5.2 5.1 3.1 5.1 3.1 5.1 Expected volatility 31% 31% 27% 26% 76% 61% Expected life years 5.2 5.1 3.1 5.1 3.1 5.1 Risk free rate 4.3% 4.3% 4.9% 4.9% 3.6% 3.9% Expected dividends expressed as dividend yield 3.3% 5.4% 5.3% 5.3% 59.9% 59.9% Expected forfeiture rate pa 9% 9% 12% 12% 23% 23% Fair value per option at grant date 95.2p 60.9p 70.3p 73.0p 0.1p 0.1p Annual Report and 83 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 29.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued Fair value of share based payments continued Arrangement Share Incentive Plan Grant of Grant of Grant of Grant of Grant of Grant of Nature of arrangement shares shares shares shares shares shares Grant date 19.8.
08 Share price at grant date 327.50p 320.00p 304.75p 346.25p 413.25p 182.75p Exercise price at grant date 0p 0p 0p 0p 0p 0p Restated exercise price following rights issue N A N A N A N A N A N A Shares under option at grant date 423,287 546,417 640,226 576,783 572,167 1,475,449 Vesting period years 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 Expected volatility N A N A N A N A N A N A Expected life years 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 Risk free rate N A N A N A N A N A N A Expected dividends expressed as dividend yield N A N A N A N A N A N A Expected forfeiture rate pa 14% 14% 14% 14% 14% 14% Fair value per share at grant date 327.5p 320.0p 304.75p 346.25p 413.25p 182.75p 1 Arrangement Long-Term Incentives Grant of Grant of Grant of Grant of Grant of Grant of Grant of Grant of Nature of arrangement shares shares shares shares shares shares shares shares Grant date 23.11.06 24.4.
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over an appropriate period, consistent with the assumed option life.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise from the date of grant.
The vesting period represents the contractual period to the earliest vesting date.
The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
84 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 30.
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Own Share Restated shares Restated Restated Share premium Hedging held Retained Total capital account reserve reserve earnings equity Group m m m m m m At 1 January 2007 restated 33.0 143.9 4.2 3.1 89.4 267.4 Actuarial gains on dened benefit pension scheme, net of tax 5.6 5.6 Fair value losses on cash ow hedges, net of tax 3.1 3.1 Transfers to profit or loss for the year 1.1 1.1 Reversal of deferred tax previously recognised 3.9 3.9 Net losses gains recognised directly in equity 4.2 1.7 2.5 Loss for the year 97.7 97.7 Total recognised income and expense for the year 4.2 96.0 100.2 Share-based payments: Value of services provided 4.9 4.9 Settlement of share awards 4.1 4.1 Tax on share-based payments 0.4 0.4 Vesting of shares 2.3 2.3 Dividends 65.3 65.3 Issue of equity placing 3.3 129.7 133.0 Costs incurred in share issue 4.3 4.3 Issue of equity exercise of options 0.2 0.2 At 1 January 2008 36.3 269.5 0.8 70.7 234.3 Actuarial losses on dened benefit pension scheme 9.9 9.9 Reversal of deferred tax previously recognised 6.3 6.3 Net losses recognised directly in equity 16.2 16.2 Loss for the year 753.6 753.6 Total recognised income and expense for the year 769.8 769.8 Share-based payments: Value of services provided 2.0 2.0 Settlement of share awards 3.6 3.6 Tax on share-based payments 0.1 0.1 Purchase of own shares 0.5 0.5 Vesting of shares 1.0 1.0 Dividends 71.1 71.1 Issue of equity rights issue 16.3 192.6 208.9 Costs incurred in share issue 12.7 12.7 At 31 December 2008 52.6 449.4 0.3 913.1 411.4 Annual Report and 85 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 30.
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY continued Share Restated Restated Restated Restated Share premium Hedging Other Retained Total capital account reserve reserves earnings equity Company m m m m m m At 1 January 2007 restated 33.0 143.9 4.2 4.2 93.9 279.2 Actuarial gains on dened benefit pension scheme, net of tax 5.6 5.6 Fair value gains on cash ow hedges, net of tax 3.1 3.1 Transfers to profit or loss for the year, 1.1 1.1 Net losses gains recognised directly in equity 4.2 5.6 1.4 profit for the year 59.6 59.6 Total recognised income and expense for the year 4.2 65.2 61.0 Share-based payments: Value of services provided by Company and subsidiary employees 4.9 4.9 Settlement of share awards 4.1 4.1 Tax on share-based payments 0.3 0.3 Dividends 65.3 65.3 Issue of equity placing 3.3 129.7 133.0 Costs incurred in share issue 4.3 4.3 Issue of equity exercise of options 0.2 0.2 At 1 January 2008 36.3 269.5 4.2 94.9 404.9 Actuarial losses on dened benefit pension scheme 9.9 9.9 Net losses recognised directly in equity 9.9 9.9 Loss for the year 2,205.4 2,205.4 Total recognised income and expense for the year 2,215.3 2,215.3 Share-based payments: Value of services provided by Company and subsidiary employees 0.2 0.2 Settlement of share awards 2.9 2.9 Tax on share-based payments 0.1 0.1 Dividends 71.1 71.1 Issue of equity rights issue 16.3 192.6 208.9 Costs incurred in share issue 12.7 12.7 At 31 December 2008 52.6 449.4 4.2 2,194.1 1,687.9 86 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 Hedging reserve As a consequence of the breach of bank covenants, which resulted in all Group hedging being ineffective with effect from 31 December 2007, all fair value movements previously held in other reserves have been transferred to the income statement and debited to interest expense in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
Own shares held reserve The own shares held reserve comprises the cost of the shares in Cattles held by the employee benefit trust to meet obligations under the Groups long-term incentive plans.
The shares were acquired by the trust in the open market using funds provided by the Company.
Nominal value Shares held in trust Number m At 1 January 2007 1,002,023 0.1 Awarded by the trust 720,282 0.1 At 1 January 2008 281,741 Shares purchased 626,782 0.1 Awarded by the trust 368,089 At 31 December 2008 540,434 0.1 The market value of the own shares held at 31 December 2008 was 0.1 million 2007: 0.8 million.
As at 31 December 2008, the shareholders authority for the Company to purchase its own shares, as approved in Resolution 9 at the Annual General Meeting of 9 May 2008, remained valid.
Merger reserve The merger reserve has arisen over numerous years in relation to past acquisitions.
This reserve is considered non-distributable.
RECONCILIATION OF LOSS PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION TO CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS Group Company Restated Restated 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Loss profit before taxation 745.2 96.5 2,230.8 59.3 Adjustments for: Dividend income 72.4 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 11.8 6.6 0.1 0.1 profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.5 0.1 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 0.2 Amortisation of intangible assets 19.4 94.7 Impairment of investments in subsidiaries 183.5 Impairment of intra-group loans and receivables 1,949.0 Share-based payments 0.6 3.1 6.3 1.0 Fair value movements on derivatives 41.1 0.4 41.1 0.4 Decrease increase in loans and receivables 52.2 568.8 Decrease increase in inventories 5.6 5.4 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 30.4 3.8 0.8 0.4 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 10.3 13.8 0.5 0.8 Increase in borrowings 78.1 19.0 79.9 19.0 Increase in provisions 94.6 0.4 Decrease in deferred income 10.8 8.4 Cash outow inow from operations 434.0 537.4 15.2 8.6 The amount of interest paid and received excluding that recognised in interest income during the year was as follows: Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Interest paid 168.7 123.4 169.9 122.2 Interest received 4.3 4.4 194.3 151.8 Annual Report and 87 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 32.
NON-CASH TRANSACTIONS Non-cash transactions in relation to the purchase of property, plant and equipment under finance leases and hire purchase contracts during the year were as follows: Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Purchase of property, plant and equipment 10.3 4.8 0.2 33.
OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS At the balance sheet date the Group and Company had total future lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows: Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 Land and Motor Land and Motor Land and Motor Land and Motor buildings vehicles buildings vehicles buildings vehicles buildings vehicles m m m m m m m m Future lease payments: Within one year 6.2 3.6 5.7 2.9 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.1 In two to five years 12.4 4.5 10.4 3.3 0.3 0.2 0.4 After five years 2.7 3.5 21.3 8.1 19.6 6.2 0.5 0.3 0.7 0.1 The following lease payments were recognised in the income statement during the year: Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Land and buildings 8.6 8.3 0.6 0.2 Motor vehicles 4.8 5.6 0.1 0.1 13.4 13.9 0.7 0.3 34.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The Company, together with other companies in the Group, has entered into an unsecured multilateral bank guarantee.
There are no fair values attached to the guarantee.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Groups payroll is administered by a subsidiary undertaking with the relevant payroll charges being recharged to the ultimate parent company and fellow group companies.
The subsidiary undertaking does not make any charge for providing these services.
The Company provides borrowing facilities for its subsidiary undertakings, for which a nancing charge is levied each month.
This charge is based upon the Companys average cost of borrowing.
The Company also levies a management fee to certain of its subsidiary undertakings in relation to providing them with certain services, such as internal audit services.
This management fee is calculated on a cost incurred basis.
The Company is provided with IT services by one of its subsidiary undertakings for which a management charge is incurred.
The charge is calculated on a cost incurred basis.
As noted in the Corporate Governance Report, close relatives of D A Haxby, F R Dee and J J Corr worked for suppliers to the Company and its subsidiaries.
Amounts paid to these suppliers are set out in the table below as related party suppliers.
The following related party transactions were carried out by the Company with its subsidiary undertakings during the year: 2008 2007 m m Lending of funds 558.5 712.9 Intra-group finance income 178.7 150.2 Management fee central services 0.4 0.3 Management charge IT services 0.1 0.1 Related party suppliers Hammonds LLP Scott Harris UK Limited Brilliant Media Limited 12.7 10.8 Receivables due from and payables to subsidiary undertakings are disclosed in note 18 and note 23 respectively.
Key management compensation is disclosed in note 8.
Amounts included in trade and other payables note 24 in respect of the related party suppliers were: Hammonds LLP 6,000 2007: nil, Scott Harris UK Limited 27,000 2007: nil and Brilliant Media Limited 39,000 2007: 328,000.
88 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 36.
PRINCIPAL OPERATING SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS Subsidiary undertaking Principal activity Welcome Financial Services Limited trading as: Welcome Finance Monthly instalment personal loans and hire purchase credit Shopacheck Financial Services Weekly home collected credit Welcome Car Finance closed 30 April 2009 Direct distribution car retailer The Lewis Group The Lewis Group Limited Debt collection and investigation services C L Finance Limited Debt purchase Cattles Invoice Finance sold 14 September 2009 Cattles Invoice Finance Limited Invoice finance Cattles Invoice Finance Oxford Limited Invoice finance All the above companies are wholly owned.
They operate in the United Kingdom and are registered in England with the exception of The Lewis Group Limited, which is registered in Scotland.
Companies which are dormant or whose operations are insignicant have been excluded from the above listing.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS On 7 January 2009 the Company announced that in light of the continuing uncertain funding environment, new business volumes in Welcome in 2009 would be reduced by some 75% on 2008 and collective consultation had begun with employees over a reduction of around 1,000 jobs within the Group.
Annualised cost savings were estimated at 40 million and the costs of delivering these savings are expected to be 20 million.
The Board reported on 10 March 2009 that, based on information received to that date, and subject to completion of its external audit, it believed that the Group had incurred a significant loss before tax for the year ended 31 December 2008, and that it would be necessary to restate the Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007.
The Board also reported on 10 March 2009 that it believed Cattles was in breach of covenants under its borrowing arrangements.
On 1 April 2009, the Company announced that a report by Deloitte estimated that the Group would need to make a provision of around 700 million in excess of that originally anticipated with respect to the value of customer loans held as at 31 December 2008.
At that date, the amount of this provision that should be reected in the profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2008 versus earlier years still remained to be determined.
However, the Board believed that such a provision would result in the Group reporting a significant loss before tax for the year ended 31 December 2008 and in the requirement to restate the Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007.
On 1 April 2009, the Board also reported that it was considering whether to include an additional IBNR provision consistent with accounting standard IAS39.
Based on work carried out to that date, the Board believed that the adoption of such a policy would result in an IBNR impairment provision of approximately 150 million with respect to the value of customer loans held as at 31 December 2008.
On 23 April 2009, Cattles announced it was not in a position to publish its report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 by 30 April 2009 as required by DTR 4.1.
In those circumstances, the Company believed that the FSA would ordinarily require the suspension of trading of the Companys shares and bonds with effect from 1 May 2009.
Therefore, in order to avoid a disorderly market and to protect investors, Cattles requested an immediate suspension of trading in its securities pending publication of its audited report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008, which was granted.
On 30 April 2009, the Group closed its car retail operation, Welcome Car Finance.
On 2 September 2009, Cattles announced the closure of 30 Welcome branches to better align the network with reduced levels of lending and deliver efficiencies in line with Cattles commitment to manage the business through cost-efficient operations and improved cash collection processes.
510 employees received notice that they were at risk of redundancy and subsequently 266 left the business.
On 14 September 2009 the Companys subsidiary undertaking, Cattles Invoice Finance Limited, was sold to ABS FS Limited for a total consideration of 70.4 million.
The Companys share of this consideration was used to repay Cattles group bank indebtedness.
On 29 October 2009, the High Court of Justice heard the application of Cattles to seek a determination in relation to whether the terms contained within certain cross-guarantee documentation operate to subordinate the Companys claims against its subsidiaries, including WFS, to the claims of certain bank creditors.
This application was brought as part of consensual discussions between all parties.
On 14 December 2009, the High Court delivered a decision that interpreted the cross-guarantee documentation to mean that the Company will be prevented from making claims against relevant trading company subsidiaries for money lent until the claims of the relevant bank creditors against those subsidiaries and the Company have been satisfied in full.
After judgment was handed down permission was sought to appeal this decision to the Court of Appeal.
The High Court granted such permission to the Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Party A being a representative member of the Bondholders.
The Court of Appeal hearing is presently listed for 12 or 13 May 2010.
On 25 November 2009, Cattles announced that it had agreed a formal SEA with its key financial creditors.
At the same time, Cattles also agreed certain modications to the terms of its bank facilities, private placement notes and, subsequently, its bonds.
Annual Report and 89 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 37.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS continued The signing of the SEA and these modications was expected to improve the likelihood of Cattles achieving its restructuring objectives, namely: to stabilise the financial position of Cattles and its subsidiaries: and against this background, to continue discussions with Cattles key financial creditors with a view to agreeing a consensual restructuring of the Group.
The SEA was signed by Cattles, WFS, certain other members of the Cattles group and, among others, lenders of certain syndicated and bilateral facilities to Cattles Banks, certain guaranteed hedging counterparties Guaranteed Hedging Counterparties, certain unguaranteed hedging counterparties Unguaranteed Hedging Counterparties and holders of certain private placement notes issued by Cattles Noteholders.
The SEA became effective on 17 December 2009 the Effective Date following the formal approval of the amendments to the bonds by holders of the 2014 and 2017 bonds Bondholders.
The key provisions of the SEA include: Standstill: A formal agreement by the key financial creditors to stand still and therefore agree not to take enforcement action against Cattles, WFS or other members of the Group for a limited period of time.
Cash distributions: Obligations on WFS to distribute the majority of cash generated by the Group to the key financial creditors, subject to the right of WFS to forecast and retain a provision for working capital requirements and other contingencies.
The SEA expressly provides that this forecast will be prepared on a conservative basis to provide ongoing liquidity for the Cattles group.
Cash management: Obligations on Cattles, WFS and other members of the Group to ensure that the majority of cash generated by the Group, which is currently subject to rights of set off in favour of certain key financial creditors, continues to be maintained in bank accounts that are subject to such rights of set off in favour of such key financial creditors.
The period of standstill is linked to the litigation process relating to certain intra Group subordination arrangements as set out in Cattles announcement of 11 August 2009 the Litigation.
The Banks, the Noteholders and the Guaranteed Hedging Counterparties are required to stand still during an initial standstill period from and including the Effective Date and ending on the earlier of: i 30 June 2011: ii the date on which the relative entitlements of the creditors to Interim Distributions paid after the conclusion of the Litigation have been nally determined by the Entity Priority Accountant: and iii the occurrence of the date on which the SEA is terminated, unless the Banks and the Guaranteed Hedging Counterparties whose claims against the Group represent at least 75% of the aggregate claims of the Banks and the Guaranteed Hedging Counterparties against the Group and the Noteholders whose claims against the Group represent at least 75% of the aggregate claims of the Noteholders against the Group decide that the standstill applicable to the Banks and the Guaranteed Hedging Counterparties and the Noteholders should be terminated.
During the period after 30 June 2011 or after the date on which the relative entitlements of the creditors to Interim Distributions paid after the conclusion of the Litigation have been nally determined by the Entity Priority Accountant, the standstill can be terminated i in the case of the standstill applicable to the Banks and Guaranteed Hedging Counterparties, by the Banks and Guaranteed Hedging Counterparties whose claims against the Group represent at least 75% of the aggregate claims of the Banks and Guaranteed Hedging Counterparties against the Group: and ii in the case of the Noteholders, by the Noteholders whose claims against the Group represent at least 75% of the aggregate claims of the Noteholders against the Group.
With respect to the Bondholders and the Unguaranteed Hedging Counterparties, the initial standstill period which began on the Effective Date has been extended following the appeal of the first instance judgment to the Court of Appeal.
There will be a further automatic extension of such standstill period following any appeal of the Court of Appeal judgment, provided that a relevant majority of the Banks, the Noteholders and the Guaranteed Hedging Counterparties agree that WFS shall fund the legal costs of any appeal up to a maximum amount of 1,500,000.
The standstill period for the Bondholders and the Unguaranteed Hedging Counterparties shall terminate where: i a relevant majority of the Banks, the Noteholders and the Guaranteed Hedging Counterparties do not agree that WFS shall fund such costs: or ii the SEA is terminated.
On 16 December 2009, Cattles announced that it was unable to recommend a business plan to financial creditors which would allow Welcome to lend to existing or new customers.
The Board therefore recommended a plan which would focus on collecting out Welcomes customer loans.
It is envisaged that the collection of the Welcome loan book could take two to three years and, during this period, the Groups cost base will contract to reect the reducing size of the book.
In 2009 all derivative assets and liabilities were converted into on-demand loans of 85.7 million with bank counterparties.
On 5 February 2010, Cattles announced the closure of circa 70 Local Management Branches and Local Collections Units nationwide.
Welcome entered into a consultation process from that date with staff affected by the proposals, of whom approximately 450 received notice that they were at risk of redundancy and subsequently 382 will leave the business.
On 7 May 2010, Cattles announced a proposal to close 18 branches nationwide and a contraction in the current operations management and their support staff in line with the smaller number of branches.
Welcome entered into a consultation process from that date, with staff affected by the proposals, of whom approximately 155 received notice that they were at risk of redundancy.
90 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008
