Back-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:36 Page 135 135 Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 1.
Accounting policies BASIS OF ACCOUNTING The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of investments, and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
The balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 4 of the Companies Act 1985.
No profit or loss account is presented for the Company as permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act.
The profit dealt with in the accounts of the parent company was 0.2m 2007 52.3m.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under FRS 1 revised and not prepared a cash flow statement.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under FRS 29 Financial instruments: Disclosure and presentation to not disclose certain information on the Companys financial instruments as this information is incorporated within the Group accounts that include the relevant disclosures.
FINANCIAL ASSETS All investments excluding investments in subsidiary undertakings are classified as fair value through profit and loss and are measured at fair value.
Fair value is determined using published bid price quotations of each security.
Unquoted equity investments are initially carried at cost as the best estimate of fair value and are adjusted thereafter whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not approximate to fair value.
The fair value of an unquoted equity is calculated using the most appropriate valuation technique, such as reference to current fair values of another instrument that is substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis or option pricing models.
Management considers the fair value through profit and loss option to be appropriate as financial assets are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented investment strategy, and information is provided internally on that basis to key management personnel.
In addition, investment risk is assessed on a total return basis, which is consistent with the adoption of fair value through profit and loss.
All purchases and sales of investments are accounted for at trade date.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value and derecognised when they have been sold.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from the change in fair value are included in the profit and loss account in the period in which they arise.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Companys activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
The Company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge these exposures.
The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
Changes in the fair value are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
OTHER INCOME Other income comprises rental income and management rebate fees receivable from investment managers.
Income is booked when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
INVESTMENT INCOME Investment income comprises all investment income, realised investment gains and losses and movements in unrealised gains and losses, net of investment management fees.
The Company recognises dividend income on establishment of the shareholders right to receive the payment.
Investment income comprises interest receivable, which is valued using the effective interest method.
EXPENSES Expenses, including administrative expenses and interest charges, are accounted for on an accruals basis and charged to the profit and loss account as incurred except as follows: Expenses that are incidental to the acquisition of an investment are included within the cost of investments Expenses that are incidental to the disposal of an investment are deducted from the disposal proceeds of the investment TAXATION The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable income for the year.
Taxable profits differs from net profit as reported in the profit and loss account because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Companys liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates applicable at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on un-remitted earnings of subsidiaries and associates where there is no commitment to remit these earnings.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008 Back-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:36 Page 136 136 Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 DIVIDENDS Dividends are recognised as a liability and deducted from equity when they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are deducted from equity when they are paid.
Dividends declared after the balance sheet date but before the financial statements are authorised are not recognised but disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS AND DEPRECIATION Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of tangible fixed assets over the estimated useful lives as follows: Buildings 25 years Straight line Foreign currency translation The functional currency used in the financial statements is sterling, being the currency of the primary economic environment of the Company.
The financial statements are presented in sterling being the presentation currency for the Company.
Monetary items are translated at period end rates, any exchange differences arising from the change in rates of exchange are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Translation differences arising on non-monetary investments held at fair value through profit or loss are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss on those investments.
Transactions and non-monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are recorded in sterling at monthly average rates prevailing at the time of the transaction.
The rates of exchange used to translate monetary balances at the period end in foreign currencies into sterling are as follows: 2008 2007 US Dollars 1.44 1.99 Canadian Dollars 1.77 1.96 Euros 1.03 1.36 LONG-TERM ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Where assets and liabilities are payable or recoverable in more than one year, they are initially recognised at their fair value, which is the discounted nominal value of the asset or liability.
The unwinding of the related discount is subsequently recognised in the profit and loss account.
INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
CONVERTIBLE LOAN STOCK The convertible loan is split on initial recognition into financial liability and equity components.
On initial recognition, the fair value of the liability component is the present value of the contractually determined stream of future cash flows discounted at the rate of interest applied at the time by the market to instruments of comparable credit status and providing substantially the same cash flows on the same terms, but without the conversion option.
The equity component on initial recognition is the difference between the original proceeds of the convertible loan and the present value of the liability component and is recognised in equity.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the convertible loan notes based on their relative fair values at the date of issue.
The financial liability component is subsequently recognised at amortised cost over the life of the liability.
The interest expense on the liability component recognised in the profit and loss account is calculated by applying the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt at the time the instrument was issued to the liability component of the instrument.
The difference between this amount and the interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the convertible loan note.
PROVISIONS AND CONTINGENCIES The Company recognises provisions when it has a present legal or constructive obligation because of past events, and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
Where a reimbursement is expected, this is recognised only when it is virtually certain that the reimbursement will take place and of the amount to be reimbursed.
Contingent liabilities are liabilities that represent a possible obligation arising from a past event whose existence is dependent on one or more uncertain future events not within the control of the Company, or a present obligation where it is not probable that an outflow will be required for settlement of the obligation.
Contingent liabilities are not disclosed where the likelihood of the uncertain future event is remote, unless the disclosure of the contingent liability adds clarity to the financial statements.
Contingent assets, which relate to possible assets and depend on the outcome of uncertain future events, are not recognised.
Such an asset is disclosed only where the inflow of economic benefit is probable.
Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008
