Back-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:36 Page 82 82 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 1.
Accounting policies Chaucer Holdings PLC, the ultimate holding company of the Group, is a public limited company registered in England and Wales.
Its subsidiaries are private limited companies.
BASIS OF PREPARATION The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
IFRS comprises standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of financial assets held at fair value through profit and loss, convertible loans and long term assets and liabilities at amortised cost using the effective interest method, and pension liabilities which are determined by actuarial analysis.
The following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued and are effective for periods starting on or after the dates below: IFRS 8, Operating segments 1 January 2009 IFRS 3 Revised, Business Combinations 1 July 2009 IAS 27 Revised, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 1 July 2009 Amendment to IFRS 2 Sharebased payment 1 January 2009 IAS 1 Revised, Presentation of financial statements 1 January 2009 IAS 23 Revised, Borrowing costs 1 January 2009 Amendments to IAS 32, Financial instruments Classification of instruments as debt or equity 1 January 2009 The Group has not adopted these standards and interpretations in the preparation of the 2008 financial statements as the standards are not yet effective.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards in future periods will have no material impact in the financial statements of the Group except for additional segmental information disclosures required by IFRS 8.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the parent and each subsidiary where the parent owns, directly or indirectly, over 50% of the voting rights, or over which it has control of their operating and financial policies.
Consolidation includes elimination of all inter-company transactions.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred at the date of exchange plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair value at the acquisition date.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the assets acquired the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the functional currency of most companies within the Group, being the currency of the primary economic environment of those companies.
Monetary items are translated at period end rates, any exchange differences arising from the change in rates of exchange are recognised in the income statement.
Translation differences arising on non-monetary investments held at fair value through profit or loss are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss on those investments.
Transactions and non-monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, including deferred acquisition costs and unearned premiums, are recorded in sterling at monthly average rates prevailing at the time of the transaction.
The averages of the monthly average rates during each financial year were as follows: 2008 2007 US Dollars 1.85 2.00 Canadian Dollars 1.96 2.15 Euros 1.26 1.46 The rates of exchange used to translate monetary balances at the period end in foreign currencies into sterling are as follows: 2008 2007 US Dollars 1.44 1.99 Canadian Dollars 1.77 1.96 Euros 1.03 1.36 Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008
