Back-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:36 Page 137 137 Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS: SHARES The Company grants shares to its subsidiaries employees under a number of shares schemes.
The shares granted are measured at fair value at the date of the grant and are expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the terms of the share schemes.
The expense is recorded against a bonus reserve in equity.
When the shares necessary to satisfy the benefit are purchased, they are recorded as own shares within equity, at their acquisition cost.
These shares are held in a separately administered trust fund and deducted from equity.
If the vesting options are exercised by the employee and the shares leave the trust, own shares and the bonus reserve are reduced by the number of vesting shares valued at acquisition cost.
If there is any difference between the acquisition cost and the fair value used at the date of setting the bonus reserve, it will be adjusted to retained earnings.
In accordance with the rules of the schemes, certain shares attract matching shares, if certain performance conditions are met.
The number of matching shares and the fair values are determined through stochastic models that estimate the probabilities of the performance conditions being met.
The cost of matching shares is amortised over the same period of time as the original shares.
The assumptions behind the determination of matching shares and their fair values are reassessed, when applicable, at the end of each accounting period, and the impact of any change is recorded in the profit and loss account.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS: SHARE OPTIONS The Company grants share options to its subsidiaries employees under a number of option schemes.
The share options granted are measured at fair value at the date of the grant and are expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
FRS 20 Share-based payment does not require options granted before 7 November 2002 to be fair-valued, or those granted after 7 November 2002 that had vested as at 1 January 2005 to be expensed.
Therefore, the costs recognised in the profit and loss account reflect only the share grants made after 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 1 January 2005.
At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the profit and loss account, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited either to the share capital nominal value and share premium, if shares are issued, or to investments in own shares, if shares are purchased, when the options are exercised.
If shares are purchased in the market to settle the options then any difference between the exercise price, the fair value of the options, and the cost of the shares issued, is taken to retained earnings.
SUBORDINATED DEBT The long-term loan is recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
The loan is subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the profit and loss account over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Administrative expenses 2008 2007 m m Depreciation of owned assets 0.2 0.1 Fees payable to Company auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.2 0.1 3.
Net investment return 2008 2007 m m Funds at Lloyds and other corporate funds Investment income 3.6 10.4 Movement in unrealised gains less losses 5.6 0.5 2.0 10.9 4.
Directors remuneration The Directors Remuneration Report provides details of directors remuneration, pensions, interests in shares and share options for the year.
Staff costs There were no staff costs incurred by the Company during the year ended 31 December 2008 2007 Nil.
The Company has no employees.
Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008
