Back-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:36 Page 148 148 Glossary of terms Acquisition costs These represent the costs of obtaining the insurance business: they include the brokers commission, the companys sales expense, and other related expenses Capacity The maximum amount of business which may be accepted by a syndicate or a corporate member on a syndicate, expressed in terms of gross premium income net of commission Claims ratio Net incurred claims as a percentage of net earned premiums Claims incurred All claims payments and the adjustment in the outstanding claims provision of a business year and claim adjustment expenses Combined ratio The sum of the claims ratio and the expense ratio Corporate member A company incorporated with limited or unlimited liability admitted to membership of Lloyd's Expense ratio Net expenses incurred in insurance activities as a percentage of net earned premiums Exposure The maximum value of claims made on an insurer from an event or events that would result in the total exhaustion of the cover or indemnity offered by an insurance policy Funds at Lloyd's Funds lodged and held in trust at Lloyd's as security for the Policyholders and to support a FAL corporate member's overall underwriting activities.
The funds must be in a form approved by Lloyd's and be maintained in value IBNR Provision for claims Incurred But Not Reported by the balance sheet date.
A term used for claims arising from accidents or events that have occurred, but have not been notified to the insurer Interavailability Lloyds rules that allow an investor to concentrate its underwriting interests through a single corporate member in situations where their underwriting was previously split between two or more corporate members Integrated Lloyd's A company which owns or controls dedicated vehicles supporting one or more continuous vehicle syndicates and the managing agent Line size The maximum exposure or monetary value of a risk or class of risks accepted by an insurer Managing agent An agent that runs the affairs of a syndicate RDS A realistic disaster scenario is an estimate of the losses that a syndicate would incur from a hypothetical disaster scenario e. g. a California earthquake Retention Amount of risk which the policyholder or insurer does not insure or reinsure but keeps for its own account Return on equity Profit after tax as a percentage of opening shareholders equity for each period adjusted for share capital issues Risk appetite The optimal strategic risk level for the operation of risks facing the organisation based on a risk return profile for which the Group receives a return, i. e. underwriting and investment risks Risk tolerance The maximum level of risk that the business is willing to accept and operate at, according to set thresholds outside the risk appetite RITC Reinsurance to close.
This is the premium paid by the members of the closing year of account of the syndicate to the members of the year of account that assumes these liabilities Syndicate A group of members underwriting insurance at Lloyds through the agency of a managing agent, to whom a particular syndicate number is assigned Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008 COVER-Inner-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:34 Page 1 Lloyds is the worlds leading specialist insurance and reinsurance market.
Lloyds reputation is founded on its 300 year history, its flexibility and the unrivalled expertise of its underwriters.
The markets unique structure means that clients encounter a flexible and responsive approach.
As at 31 December 2008, 78 businesses operate in Lloyds, each with its own specialties and areas of expertise.
Together they interact with thousands of brokers daily to create insurance solutions for businesses around the world.
Lloyds, as at 30 November 2008, insures 88% of FTSE 100 and 97% of Dow Jones industrial average companies.
Lloyds capital base is diverse and today 85% of Lloyds capital comes from corporate bodies primarily the international insurance industry.
Lloyds enjoys strong financial security and every policy is supported by an A excellent rating from the rating agency A. M. Best, A strong rating from Standard & Poors and A strong rating from Fitch Ratings.
Lloyd's is regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
This report contains certain forward-looking statements regarding Chaucer Holdings, its corporate plans, future financial condition, future results of operations, future business plans and strategies.
Statements containing the words believes, expects, plans, seeks and anticipates, and words of similar meaning, are forward-looking.
By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances that are beyond Chaucer Holdings control.
These include, among other things, UK domestic and global economic and business conditions, market related risks such as fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates, and the performance of financial markets generally, the policies and actions of regulatory authorities, the impact of competition, inflation and deflation, experience in particular with regard to policy prices, renewal rates and loss experience.
As a result, Chaucer Holdings actual future financial condition, performance and results may differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations set forth in Chaucer Holdings forward-looking statements.
Chaucer Holdings undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements contained in this report or any other forward-looking statements it may make.
co. uk Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008 COVER-Outer-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:34 Page 1 Chaucer Holdings PLC Motor, marine, energy, aviation, property, specialist lines and nuclear insurance Specialist vehicle broking Syndicate management and other services Registered office Plantation Place 30 Fenchurch Street London EC3M 3AD T 020 7397 9700 F 020 7397 9710 www.
com Registered number: 2847982 Chaucer Holdings PLC is a holding company, forward thinking certain subsidiaries of which are authorised by the Financial Services Authority.
Chaucer Insurance Prospect House Chaucer Business Park Thanet Way Whitstable Kent CT5 3FD T 01227 284700 F 01227 284701 www.
co. uk Richard Egger Insurance 8 The Triangle ng2 Business Park Nottingham NG2 1AE T 0115 985 0165 F 0115 988 2757 www.
co. uk Chaucer Underwriting A S Landgreven 3, 4th Floor DK 1301 Copenhagen K Denmark T 45 3314 6022 F 45 3333 0550 Chaucer Singapore PTE Limited 1 George Street #16-06 Singapore 049145 Singapore T 65 64 99 08 02 F 65 64 99 08 29 Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008
