Back-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:36 Page 82 82 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 1.
Accounting policies Chaucer Holdings PLC, the ultimate holding company of the Group, is a public limited company registered in England and Wales.
Its subsidiaries are private limited companies.
BASIS OF PREPARATION The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
IFRS comprises standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of financial assets held at fair value through profit and loss, convertible loans and long term assets and liabilities at amortised cost using the effective interest method, and pension liabilities which are determined by actuarial analysis.
The following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued and are effective for periods starting on or after the dates below: IFRS 8, Operating segments 1 January 2009 IFRS 3 Revised, Business Combinations 1 July 2009 IAS 27 Revised, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 1 July 2009 Amendment to IFRS 2 Sharebased payment 1 January 2009 IAS 1 Revised, Presentation of financial statements 1 January 2009 IAS 23 Revised, Borrowing costs 1 January 2009 Amendments to IAS 32, Financial instruments Classification of instruments as debt or equity 1 January 2009 The Group has not adopted these standards and interpretations in the preparation of the 2008 financial statements as the standards are not yet effective.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards in future periods will have no material impact in the financial statements of the Group except for additional segmental information disclosures required by IFRS 8.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the parent and each subsidiary where the parent owns, directly or indirectly, over 50% of the voting rights, or over which it has control of their operating and financial policies.
Consolidation includes elimination of all inter-company transactions.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred at the date of exchange plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair value at the acquisition date.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the assets acquired the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the functional currency of most companies within the Group, being the currency of the primary economic environment of those companies.
Monetary items are translated at period end rates, any exchange differences arising from the change in rates of exchange are recognised in the income statement.
Translation differences arising on non-monetary investments held at fair value through profit or loss are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss on those investments.
Transactions and non-monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, including deferred acquisition costs and unearned premiums, are recorded in sterling at monthly average rates prevailing at the time of the transaction.
The averages of the monthly average rates during each financial year were as follows: 2008 2007 US Dollars 1.85 2.00 Canadian Dollars 1.96 2.15 Euros 1.26 1.46 The rates of exchange used to translate monetary balances at the period end in foreign currencies into sterling are as follows: 2008 2007 US Dollars 1.44 1.99 Canadian Dollars 1.77 1.96 Euros 1.03 1.36 Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008 Back-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:36 Page 83 83 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 UNDERWRITING TRANSACTIONS The results for all classes of business in respect of participations on syndicates managed by the Group are determined on an annual basis whereby the incurred cost of claims, commission and related expenses are charged against the earned proportion of premium, net of reinsurance as follows: i Premiums written comprise the premiums on contracts incepting in the financial year, together with any differences between booked premiums for prior years and those previously accrued, and include estimates of premiums due but not yet receivable or notified, less allowance for cancellations.
ii Reinsurance premiums and any related reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same accounting period as the premiums and claims for the related direct or inwards reinsurance business.
iii Unearned premiums represent the proportion of premiums written in the year that relate to unexpired terms of policies in force at the balance sheet date.
iv Acquisition costs, which represent commission and other related expenses, are deferred over the period in which the related policies are earned.
v Claims incurred comprise claims and related expenses paid in the year and changes in the provisions for outstanding claims, including provisions for claims incurred but not reported and related expenses, together with any other adjustments to claims from prior years.
Where applicable, deductions are made for salvage and other recoveries.
vi Claims outstanding represent the estimated ultimate cost of settling all claims including direct and indirect claims settlement costs arising from events that have occurred up to the balance sheet date, including provision for claims incurred but not reported, less any amounts paid in respect of those claims.
Claims outstanding are reduced by anticipated salvage and other recoveries.
The ultimate cost of outstanding claims is estimated by using a range of actuarial projection methods.
The primary sensitivity in these methods is the assumption that experience is indicative of the outcome of current business and, where past experience is insufficient, that market benchmarks are representative of the relevant syndicates own underwriting.
Significant delays can be experienced in the notification and settlement of certain claims, and accordingly the ultimate cost of such claims cannot be known with certainty at the balance sheet date.
In particular, estimates of technical provisions inevitably contain inherent uncertainties because significant periods of time may elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of that claim to the syndicate and the syndicates payment of the claim and the receipt of reinsurance recoveries.
While the Directors consider that the estimate of claims outstanding is fairly calculated, on the basis of the information currently available to them, the ultimate liability remains inherently uncertain and may change as a result of subsequent information and events which may result in the eventual cost of settling these liabilities being higher or lower than the amount calculated.
vii Reserves are set based upon an expectation that there will not be a subsequent release or deficit.
In arriving at this estimate, allowance is made for the inherent uncertainty involved in setting of reserves.
viii Liability adequacy test: at each reporting date an assessment is made to determine whether recognised insurance liabilities are adequate.
If that assessment shows that the carrying amount of insurance liabilities less related acquisition costs is inadequate in the light of estimated future cash flows, the entire deficiency is recognised in the income statement via the provision of an unexpired risk reserve.
The provision for unexpired risks is included within technical provisions in the balance sheet.
PARTICIPATION IN NUCLEAR POOLS The Group, through its interests in Syndicate 1176, participates on business underwritten by Nuclear Risk Insurers Limited NRI.
In addition to insuring UK based nuclear risks, NRI participates on reinsurance programmes of similar overseas nuclear pools.
As part of these arrangements, NRI reinsures a portion of its business with the overseas pools and accepts inwards reinsurance on a reciprocal basis.
NRI accounts to its members on a basis net of the inter-pool reciprocal reinsurance recoveries.
NRI maintains its underwriting accounts on a three-year basis, and on closure of an account after three years, it transfers the liabilities to the next open year of account by means of a portfolio transfer.
Syndicate 1176 pays and receives a proportion of this portfolio transfer between its closing and next open year of account.
The difference to the syndicate between the amount paid to close one year of account and that received by the following year of account is due to the different proportions of the NRI pool written by the syndicate for each year of account and is treated as an additional or return premium.
The Groups financial statements include its share of these transactions, on an annually accounted basis.
INVESTMENT RETURN Investment return comprises all investment income, realised investment gains and losses and movements in unrealised gains and losses net of investment management fees.
Dividend income is recognised when the shareholder's right to receive the payment is established.
Investment income comprises interest receivable, which is valued using the effective interest method.
OTHER OPERATING INCOME Other operating income comprises retained underwriting agency fees, management fees and underwriting profit commissions.
Underwriting agency fees are brought into account in the year to which they relate.
Profit commissions expected to arise on closure of a Lloyds year of account in respect of the managed syndicates are recognised as earned on an annual basis to match the related underwriting profits.
Profit commissions due after more than one year are held at fair value, which is the discounted present value of the nominal amount expected to be received.
Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008 Back-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:36 Page 84 84 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 NET EXPENSES INCURRED IN INSURANCE ACTIVITIES Expenses incurred in insurance activities are recognised on an accruals basis.
These comprise the Groups share of syndicate operating expenses, acquisition costs and the costs of membership of Lloyds and other expenses attributable to the Groups underwriting, stated net of contributions from quota share reinsurers.
OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES Operating expenses are recognised on an accruals basis.
They comprise group operating expenses such as remuneration, office and administrative costs.
BORROWING COSTS Borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred, and are recognised under the effective interest rate method.
TAXATION The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and the movement in deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable income for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates applicable at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is generally provided in full, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and the carrying value in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill, goodwill for which amortisation is not deductible for tax purposes, or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and expected to apply when the related tax is affected.
The deferred tax resulting from the recognition of actuarial losses for the year on the defined benefit pension scheme is recorded in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense SORIE.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be used.
Deferred income tax is provided on the temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group controls the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only where there is a legal right of offset and the deferred taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
LEASES Costs in respect of operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Leasing agreements, which transfer to the Group substantially all the benefits and risks of ownership of an asset, are treated as if the asset has been purchased outright.
The assets are included in tangible assets and the capital element of the leasing commitments is shown as obligations under finance leases.
The lease rentals are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements.
The capital element is applied to reduce the outstanding obligations and the interest element charged against profit in proportion to the reducing capital element outstanding.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful life.
DIVIDENDS Dividends are recognised as a liability and deducted from equity when they are approved by the Groups shareholders.
Interim dividends are deducted from equity when they are paid.
Dividends declared after the balance sheet date but before the financial statements are authorised are not recognised but disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
SYNDICATE PARTICIPATIONS Syndicate participations represent an aggregation of the proportion of assets and liabilities of each syndicate in which the Group participates.
Those assets are held subject to the individual syndicate trust funds and the Group cannot obtain or use them until such time as each syndicate underwriting year is closed and profits are distributed, or an advance profit release is made.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet represent cash balances and money market deposits lodged with banks and short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Investments with an original maturity date of less than three months are treated as cash equivalents.
Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008 Back-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:36 Page 85 85 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 FINANCIAL ASSETS All investments are classified as fair value through profit and loss and are measured at fair value.
The fair value of quoted financial investments is based on current bid prices.
Unquoted equity investments are initially carried at cost as the best estimate of fair value and are adjusted thereafter whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not approximate to fair value.
The fair value of an unquoted equity is calculated using the most appropriate valuation technique, such as reference to current fair values of another instrument that is substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis or option pricing models.
The fair value of unquoted hedge fund investments is determined from net asset values provided by independent third-party fund administrators.
Whilst many hedge funds operate in specialist markets, the securities in which they invest are predominantly listed or exchange traded, such securities can therefore be priced consistently with normal market practices for the valuation of listed securities.
If funds hold unquoted assets they are typically valued with reference to listed securities of a similar nature or by using pricing models that are reviewed and approved by an independent pricing specialist.
The value of underlying assets valued in such a way is relatively small and the potential impact on Group results that could arise from pricing errors is considered to be immaterial in the context of the total investment portfolio.
Management considers the fair value through profit and loss option to be appropriate as financial assets are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented investment strategy, and information is provided internally on that basis to key management personnel.
In addition, investment risk is assessed on a total return basis that is consistent with the adoption of fair value through profit and loss.
All purchases and sales of financial assets are accounted for at trade date.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value and derecognised when they have been sold.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from the change in fair value are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
The Group uses foreign exchange forward contracts to manage these exposures.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
Changes in the fair value are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices, discounted cash flow models and option pricing models, as appropriate.
TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of tangible fixed assets over the estimated useful lives as follows: Buildings 25 years straight line Lease improvements 20% per annum Furniture, office fixtures and fittings 8-20% per annum Computer equipment 33% per annum INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets comprise goodwill and auction costs arising on the purchase of syndicate capacity.
Goodwill is the excess of the cost of acquired businesses over the fair value of the net assets acquired, and is deemed to have an indefinite useful life, since, in the current business strategy, the Group will benefit from the activities of the managing agency for as long as it carries on doing business.
Auction costs are the costs incurred in purchasing additional capacity on the syndicates currently managed by Chaucer Syndicates Limited.
The capacity purchased is deemed to have an indefinite useful economic life represented by participation rights to membership on each syndicate, since it is deemed that the benefits from that capacity have no foreseeable limit.
Both goodwill and auction costs are recognised on the balance sheet at cost less any impairment.
Both goodwill and auction costs are tested annually for impairment.
Where there is any reduction in the carrying amount for either, this would be recognised in the income statement during the period in which the reduction is determined.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite life is tested for impairment annually, and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008 Back-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:36 Page 86 86 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less cost to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement immediately.
Except for goodwill where impairment losses cannot be reversed, where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount will not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of the impairment loss is recognised in the income statement immediately.
LONG TERM ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Where assets and liabilities are payable or recoverable in more than one year, they are initially recognised at their fair value, which is the discounted nominal value of the asset or liability.
The unwinding of the related discount is subsequently recognised in the income statement.
CONVERTIBLE LOAN STOCK The convertible loan is split on initial recognition into financial liability and equity components.
On initial recognition, the fair value of the liability component is the present value of the contractually determined stream of future cash flows discounted at the rate of interest applied at the time by the market to instruments of comparable credit status and providing substantially the same cash flows on the same terms, but without the conversion option.
The equity component on initial recognition is the difference between the original proceeds of the convertible loan and the present value of the liability component and is recognised in equity.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the convertible loan notes based on their relative fair values at the date of issue.
The financial liability component is subsequently recognised at amortised cost over the life of the liability.
The interest expense on the liability component recognised in the income statement is calculated by applying the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt at the time the instrument was issued to the liability component of the instrument.
The difference between this amount and the interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the convertible loan note.
PROVISIONS AND CONTINGENCIES Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
Where a reimbursement is expected, this is recognised only when it is virtually certain that the reimbursement will take place, and of the amount to be reimbursed.
Contingent liabilities are liabilities that represent a possible obligation arising from a past event whose existence is dependent on one or more uncertain future events not within the control of the Group, or a present obligation where it is not probable that an outflow will be required for settlement of the obligation.
Contingent liabilities are not disclosed where the likelihood of the uncertain future event is remote, unless the disclosure of the contingent liability adds clarity to the financial statements.
Contingent assets, which relate to possible assets and depend on the outcome of uncertain future events, are not recognised.
Such an asset is disclosed only where the inflow of economic benefit is probable.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS: PENSIONS The Group operates a single pension scheme with both a defined benefits and, from December 2001, a defined contribution section.
Payments to the defined contribution section are charged as expense as they fall due.
Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme.
Contributions in respect of the defined benefits section are paid in accordance with the recommendations of independent actuaries.
The costs of providing benefits under this section are determined using the projected unit credit method, with full actuarial valuations being carried out at least every three years or sooner if significant changes in the assumptions surrounding the valuation of the schemes assets and liabilities require it and updates being carried out every six months.
These costs are recognised in the income statement based on the valuation prepared by independent actuaries.
In accordance with the standard, actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur and are recognised outside profit or loss, in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the amended benefits become vested.
The amount recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligations, and is reduced by the fair value of plan assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008 Back-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:36 Page 87 87 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS: SHARES The Group grants shares to its employees under a number of shares schemes.
The shares granted are measured at fair value at the date of the grant and are expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the terms of the share schemes.
The expense is recorded against a bonus reserve in equity.
When the shares necessary to satisfy the benefit are purchased, they are recorded as own shares within equity, at their acquisition cost.
These shares are held in a separately administered trust fund and deducted from equity.
If the vesting options are exercised by the employee and the shares leave the trust, own shares and the bonus reserve are reduced by the number of vesting shares valued at acquisition cost.
If there is any difference between the acquisition cost and the fair value used at the date of setting the bonus reserve, it will be adjusted to retained earnings.
In accordance with the rules of the schemes, certain shares attract matching shares, if certain performance conditions are met.
The number of matching shares and the fair values are determined through stochastic models that estimate the probabilities of the performance conditions being met.
The cost of matching shares is amortised over the same period of time as the original shares.
The assumptions behind the determination of matching shares and their fair values are reassessed, when applicable, at the end of each accounting period, and the impact of any change is recorded in the income statement.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS: SHARE OPTIONS The Group grants share options to its employees under a number of option schemes.
The share options granted are measured at fair value at the date of the grant and are expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
IFRS 2 Share-based payment does not require options granted before 7 November 2002 to be fair-valued, or those granted after 7 November 2002 that had vested as at 1 January 2005 to be expensed.
Therefore, the costs recognised in the income statement reflect only the share grants made after 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 1 January 2005.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited either to the share capital nominal value and share premium, if shares are issued, or to investments in own shares, if shares are purchased, when the options are exercised.
If shares are purchased in the market to settle the options then any difference between the exercise price, the fair value of the options, and the cost of the shares issued, is taken to retained earnings.
SUBORDINATED DEBT The long-term loans are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
The loans are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the initial carrying amount and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the expected period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES The preparation of the financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and based on historical experience and other factors including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The most critical accounting estimate made by the Group is the estimate of the ultimate claims liability under insurance contracts underwritten.
The estimation of the liability considers historical data, with most relevance given to recent data, of claims experience in each particular account.
Note 2 describes the process to estimate the ultimate claims liability in more detail.
Other areas where the Directors have applied significant judgement are as follows: The decision to value the financial assets at fair value though profit and loss, based on the considerations described in the relevant accounting policy above, has impacted the final determination of the profit for the year, as the methods and assumptions required by this classification differ substantially from other options available to the Directors.
In valuing the tax charge for the year and in particular the deferred tax asset associated to losses available to the Group, the Directors have taken into consideration the changes to tax regulations during the year and the availability of potential future profits.
The bonus payable to staff and Directors is based on a formulaic approach applicable to the profit before tax for the year.
As a consequence, the uncertainties and assumptions affecting the valuation of insurance liabilities and investments, described above, have a material impact on the calculation of the bonus.
In addition, the Directors have applied judgement in areas that have a significant impact on the recognition and deferral of the bonus charge, such as the estimate of when the long term elements of the bonus will be paid and an estimate of whether the conditions affecting the allocation of matching shares will be met.
The Income Statement adjusts and recognises any subsequent adjustments for inadequacies or surpluses.
Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008
