Back-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:36 Page 128 128 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 34.
Contingent liabilities and contingent assets The Group has entered into a deed of covenant in respect of certain of the corporate member subsidiaries to meet each subsidiarys obligations to Lloyds as detailed above.
A fixed and floating charge over the investments and other assets of the Group in favour of Lloyds secures the total guarantee given by the Group under those deeds of covenant subject to limited exceptions.
Lloyds has the right to retain income on charged investments, although it is not expected that Lloyds would exercise the right unless it considers there to be a risk that one or more of the covenants might need to be called and, if called, might not be honoured in full.
The liability under each deed of covenant is limited to a fixed monetary amount.
However, Lloyds may enforce a deed of covenant default by a corporate member if the total value of investments held falls below that covenanted.
In doing so, this may result in the appropriation by Lloyds of a greater amount of the Groups total Funds at Lloyds than that corporate members assets represent as a proportion of the Groups overall premium limit.
There is no mechanism for the Group to quantify its exposure in this regard and the Directors consider that the possibility of having this appropriation is remote.
Where the Group reduces its participation on a syndicate, it pays a reinsurance to close premium to other Lloyds Names to assume its ongoing liabilities.
The nature of this arrangement is that of reinsurance such that the Group retains liability in the event of failure of these Lloyds Names and the Lloyds chain of security.
There is no mechanism for the Group to quantify its exposure in this regard and the Directors consider that the possibility of having to assume these liabilities is remote.
Commitments OPERATING LEASES The Group is due to make future payments under operating leases over the periods stated as follows: 2008 2007 Land and buildings Land and buildings m m Not later than one year 3.2 2.6 Later than one year and not later than five years 11.8 11.6 Later than five years 6.9 9.7 Total future minimum lease payments 21.9 23.9 The Group occupied premises in Devonshire Square until June 2007, when it moved to premises in Plantation Place, Fenchurch Street, London EC3.
The Group signed the Plantation Place lease in August 2006 for a period of approximately ten years.
Costs, which have accrued since the date of the lease agreement, include a rent-free period of 21 months, the value of which extends across the term of the contract.
In 2008, the Group sublet a portion of the Plantation Place premises, for which it expects to receive the following future income: 2008 2007 Land and buildings Land and buildings m m Not later than one year 0.8 - Later than one year and not later than five years 2.3 - Later than five years - - Total future minimum lease receipts 3.1 - Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008
