The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 55 Annual General Meeting Venue CHRISTOPHER ST EARL ST FINSBURY SQ SUN ST No.
4 LIVERPOOL ST STATION ELDON ST LIVERPOOL ST FINSBURY CIRCUS LONDON WALL Henderson Global Investors, 4 Broadgate, London EC2M 2DA Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the 116th Annual General Special Business Meeting of The City of London Investment Trust plc To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following the Company will be held at 4 Broadgate, London resolutions: EC2M 2DA, on Thursday 16 October 2008 at 3.00 pm for as an Ordinary Resolution: the transaction of the following: 7 THAT in substitution for all existing authorities the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised Ordinary Business pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 1 To receive the Report of the Directors and the the Act to exercise all the powers of the Audited Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2008.
Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of section 80 up to an aggregate nominal 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for amount of 2,590,209 being 5 per cent.
of the the year ended 30 June 2008. issued ordinary share capital at the date of this 3 To re-elect Mr Angus Russell as a director of the Notice of Annual General Meeting for a period Company.
expiring unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting at the 4 To elect Mr Richard Hextall as a director of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Company in 2009, but that the Company may make 5 To re-appoint the Auditor, Ernst & Young LLP.
an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after expiry of this 6 To authorise the directors to determine the Auditors authority and the Board may allot relevant securities remuneration.
in pursuance of that offer or agreement.
APPOLD ST BLOMFIELD ST FINSBURY SQ FINSBURY PAVEMENT MOORGATE WILSON ST FINSBURY AVE 56 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued as a Special Resolution: Exchange Daily Official List for the 5 business days 8 THAT in substitution for all existing authorities and immediately preceding the day on which the subject to the passing of resolution 7 the directors Ordinary Share is purchased or such other amount be empowered pursuant to section 95 of the as may be specified by the UK Listing Authority Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot equity from time to time: securities within the meaning of section 94 2 of d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the Act for cash pursuant to the authority the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of conferred by resolution 7 as if section 89 1 of the the Company in 2009: Act did not apply to the allotment and to sell e the Company may make a contract to relevant shares within the meaning of section 94 purchase Ordinary Shares under the authority of the Act if, immediately before the sale, such hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such shares are held by the Company as treasury shares authority which will or may be executed wholly or as defined in section 162A of the Act for cash as partly after the expiration of such authority and if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant such sale.
This power: to any such contract: and a expires at the end of the next Annual General f any Ordinary Shares so purchased shall be Meeting of the Company in 2009, but the cancelled or, if the directors so determine and Company may make an offer or agreement which subject to the provision of the Companies would or might require equity securities to be Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares allotted after expiry of this power and the Regulations 2003 and any applicable regulations directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of the United Kingdom Listing Authority, held as of that offer or agreement: and treasury shares.
b shall be limited to allotments of equity securities and or the sale of shares held in treasury for cash as a Special Resolution: up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 10 THAT the Company be and is hereby authorised in 2,590,209 being 5 per cent.
of the issued accordance with section 166 of the Companies ordinary share capital at the date of this report.
Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Act of as a Special Resolution: the Companys 4.2% cumulative first preference 9 THAT the Company be and is hereby authorised in stock the First Preference Stock, 4.2% nonaccordance with section 166 of the Companies cumulative second preference stock the Second Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases Preference Stock and 14% non-cumulative within the meaning of section 163 of the Act of preferred ordinary stock the Preferred Ordinary ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Stock together the Preferred Stock, provided Company Ordinary Shares, provided that: that: a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares a the maximum amount of Preferred Stock hereby hereby authorised to be purchased shall be authorised to be purchased is the entire issued 14.99% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital amount of each such class of Preferred capital at the date of the Annual General Meeting Stock as at the date of this resolution, being: not to exceed 31,061,795 ordinary shares, the equivalent of 14.99% of the Companys issued i 301,982 of First Preference Stock: share capital at the date of this notice : ii 507,202 of Second Preference Stock: and b the minimum price which may be paid for an iii 589,672 of Preferred Ordinary Stock: Ordinary Share is 25p, being the nominal value per ordinary share: b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for each 1 of capital of c the maximum price which may be paid for an Preferred Stock is 1p: Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for c the maximum price exclusive of expenses an Ordinary Share taken from the London Stock which may be paid for each 1 of capital of The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 57 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Preferred Stock is an amount equal to 110% of Notes the prevailing middle market quotation for 1 of 1 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated capital of the relevant Preferred Stock taken from Securities Regulations 2001 only those the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for shareholders registered in the Register of the business day immediately preceding the day Members of the Company at close of business on on which such stock is purchased: 14 October 2008 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM in respect of the number of d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at voting rights registered in their name at that time.
the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of Changes to entries on the Register of Members the Company in 2009: and after close of business on 14 October 2008 shall e the Company may make a contract to be disregarded in determining the rights of any purchase any class of Preferred Stock under the person to attend and vote at the meeting.
authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of In the case of joint holders of a voting right, the such authority which will or may be executed vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in wholly or partly after the expiration of such person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the authority and may make a purchase of Preferred exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders Stock pursuant to any such contract.
and, for this purpose, seniority shall be as a Special Resolution: determined by the order in which the names 11 THAT the Articles of Association contained in the stand in the Register of Members in respect of the document produced to the meeting and signed by joint holding.
the Chairman for the purposes of identification be 2 Pursuant to section 324 of the Companies Act approved and adopted as the new Articles of 2006, a member entitled to attend and vote at Association of the Company in substitution for, the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of attend and, on a poll, to vote on his behalf.
A Association, with effect from the conclusion of proxy need not be a member of the Company.
form of proxy is enclosed and to be valid must be lodged with the Companys Registrars Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 1075, Bristol, BS99 3FA not less than forty-eight By order of the Board hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
The D J Trickett ACIS completion of the form of proxy will not preclude For and on behalf of shareholders from attending and voting in person Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, Secretary at the meeting.
8 September 2008 3 Section 324 does not apply to persons nominated to receive information rights pursuant to section 146 of the Companies Act 2006.
Persons nominated to receive information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 have been sent this notice of meeting and are hereby informed, in accordance with section 149 2 of the Companies Act 2006, that they may have the right under an agreement with the registered member by whom they are nominated to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for this meeting.
If they have such right or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to 58 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
c 507,202 of Non-Cumulative Second Nominated persons should contact the registered Preference Stock.
Holders of this stock have no member by whom they were nominated in rights to attend and vote at the annual general respect of these arrangements.
meeting: and 4 By attending the meeting, members and their d 589,672 of Preferred Ordinary Stock.
On a proxies and representatives are understood by the poll holders have one vote per 20 of stock.
Company to have agreed to receive any Therefore the total number of voting rights in the communications relating to the Companys shares Company as at 8 September 2008 made at the meeting.
5 In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will Registered Office: be put in place at the meeting so that i if a 4 Broadgate, London EC2M 2DA corporate shareholder has appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the chairman and the chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of appointment letter if the chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
6 Total voting rights: as at 8 September 2008 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consisted of a 207,216,778 ordinary shares.
On a poll, 15 shares are required for one vote: b 301,982 of Cumulative First Preference Stock.
On a poll holders have one vote per 10 of stock held: The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 59 Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting 6.
Polls Article 57 EXPLANATORY NOTE TO RESOLUTION 11 Article 57 has been amended to clarify that a poll may be demanded Details of the amendments to the Companys Articles of before a show of hands, as well as immediately after the result of a Association show of hands, and to give the directors the right to demand a poll as The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, which is replacing the well as the Chairman of the meeting.
Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act is being implemented in stages and will be fully in force by 1 October 2009.
Votes of members, proxies and corporate representatives 11, the Company is adopting new Articles of Association the Articles 51, 66 and 75 Articles which will reflect the changes in company law brought Under the 2006 Act, proxies are entitled to vote on a show of hands about by the 2006 Act which are already in force or which are to as well as on a poll, and members may appoint a proxy to exercise all come into effect on 1 October 2008, as well as some minor technical or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at meetings.
Set out below is a summary of the principal proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to changes.
exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares.
The new Articles reflect these new proxy rights.
The 2006 Act also provides for 1.
Transfer of shares Articles 31 to 33 multiple corporate representatives to be appointed and the Articles Under the 2006 Act, a company must either register a transfer or therefore refer to the right to appoint multiple corporate give the transferee notice of, and reasons for, its refusal to register representatives.
Any registration of a transfer or notice of refusal must be made or given as soon as practicable and in any event within two 8.
Receipt of appointments of proxy and termination of months from the date that the transfer is lodged with the company.
proxy authority Article 80 The new Articles reflect these requirements.
The Company cannot in Article 80 provides that proxies for a poll to be taken after the date any event refuse to transfer a fully paid share except in very limited of a meeting or adjourned meeting must be received not less than circumstances such as a transfer to more than four persons.
24 hours, or such shorter time as the directors may determine, before the time of the poll.
The deadlines for receipt of termination 2.
Disclosure of interests Article 70 of proxy authority have been brought into line with the deadlines for The provisions relating to the disclosure of interests in shares receipt of proxies.
contained in the 1985 Act, including section 212 on company investigation powers, were repealed in January 2007.
Directors appointments, interests and conflicts of interest and related sections in Part 22 of the 2006 Act, which contain the Articles 111 and 112 corresponding company investigation powers previously contained in The 2006 Act sets out directors general duties which largely codify section 212, were brought into force simultaneously.
Article 70 the existing law but with some changes.
Under the 2006 Act, from reflects the replacement of section 212 of the 1985 Act with section 1 October 2008 a director has a statutory duty to avoid a situation 793 of the 2006 Act.
where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
Notice of general meetings Article 47.1 and 50.1 requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director The provisions in the new Articles dealing with the convening of becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another general meetings and the length of notice required to convene organisation.
The 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to general meetings are in line with the relevant provisions of the 2006 authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where appropriate, if the Act.
In particular, a general meeting other than the annual general articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The 2006 Act meeting to consider a special resolution can be convened on 14 also allows the articles to contain other provisions for dealing with days notice whereas previously 21 days notice was required.
directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The amendment to Article 50.1 deals with situations where, because Article 111, which is the provision for dealing with conflicts in our of a postal strike or similar situation beyond the control of the current articles, allowing directors to be interested in transactions Company, a notice of meeting is not received by a shareholder.
The and to be an officer of or employed by or interested in a body amendment will ensure that such failure does not invalidate corporate in which the Company is interested, has been amended so proceedings at the meeting in question.
that it confirms that such interests, offices or employment will not infringe the conflicts duty as codified in the 2006 Act.
Quorum Article 51 New Article 112 gives the directors authority to approve conflict Article 51 has been amended to make it clear that persons who are situations including other directorships held by the Companys proxies for the same member or representatives of the same body directors and includes other provisions to allow conflicts of interest corporate can constitute a quorum.
to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
Attending and speaking at meetings Article 54 There are safeguards that will apply when directors decide whether Article 54 of the new Articles now provides that the chairman of the to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only directors who meeting may permit non-members or persons who are not entitled have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take to exercise the rights of members to attend and, at the chairmans the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the discretion, speak at a general meeting.
60 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting continued directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most The Company may ask each member for his or her consent to likely to promote the Companys success.
The directors will be able receive communications from the Company via its website.
If the to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think member does not respond to the request for consent within 28 days, this is appropriate.
the Company may take that as consent by the member to receive communications in this way.
If the Company sends or supplies any The proposed new Article 112 also contains provisions relating to notice, document or information to members by making it available confidential information, attendance at Board meetings and on the Companys website, it must notify each member who has availability of Board papers to protect a director from being in breach consented or is deemed to have consented to receive documents of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises.
via the website, either by post or by email if the member has These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the specifically agreed to receive communications in electronic form, potential conflict has previously been authorised by the directors.
that the notice, document or information has been placed on the It is the Boards intention to report annually on the Companys website.
A member who has consented or is deemed to have procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers of authorisation of consented to receive communications via the website can request a conflicts are operated effectively and that the procedures have been hard copy of any document at any time.
Members can also revoke followed.
their consent to receive electronic communications at any time.
In relation to joint holders of shares, Article 147.3 provides that the 10.
Quorum Article 117 agreement of the first-named holder on the register of members to The proposed amendment to Article 117, which deals with the accept notices, documents or information electronically or via a quorum requirement for Board meetings, clarifies that a director website shall be binding on the other joint holders.
Article 147.4 cannot count in the quorum for a matter or resolution on which he permits the Company not to send or supply any notice, document or is not entitled to vote but he may count in the quorum for the other information to a member whose registered address is not in the matters or resolutions to be considered or voted on at the meeting.
United Kingdom unless that member gives a non-electronic address in the United Kingdom.
Permitted interests and voting Article 123 The provisions which previously deemed certain interests of a Article 147.5 and 147.6 cater for situations where the provision of directors connected persons to be the interests of that director for corporate information in electronic form or via a website may the purposes of this article have been deleted.
There is no amount to a breach of securities laws of another jurisdiction.
The requirement in the 2006 Act to include such a provision and the Company may send hard copies if it needs to restrict the circulation 2006 Act contains a much wider definition of connected person of information in certain circumstances, such as for US securities law of a director.
The director and the Company must still take a view reasons.
each time a matter is being considered as to whether the interests of the directors connected persons mean that the director should be Article 155 deals with notices, documents or information sent by the treated as interested for the purposes of this article.
Company to a member which have been returned undelivered on three consecutive occasions.
The member will only be entitled to be 12.
Notices and other communications Articles 79, 123 sent further communications upon provision of a new postal or and 147 electronic address to the Company.
The 2006 Act enables companies to communicate with their members by electronic communication to a greater extent than Article 156 is included to deal with the validation of documents in previously permitted.
Article 147 will provide the Company with a electronic form by members where required by the Articles.
In the general power to send or supply any notice, document or information case of notices of meetings or proxies, any validation requirements to any member by a variety of methods in person, by post or in must be specified in the notice.
electronic form such as by email, or by making it available on the Companys website.
In addition to any notice, document or 13.
The seal Article 128 information which is specifically required to be sent or supplied under Article 128 provides that instruments other than share certificates the 2006 Act, the Company will also be able to send any other to which the seal is affixed shall be signed by two authorised persons document or information to members using this variety of methods.
or by a director in the presence of a witness, whereas previously the Article 79 allows proxies to be sent or supplied in electronic form requirement was for signature by either the director and secretary or and, where the Company gives an electronic address in a form of two directors.
proxy, shareholders may send the appointment of proxy to that electronic address, subject to any conditions or limitations specified in the relevant notice of meeting.
