34 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 Notes to the Accounts continued 1 Accounting policies continued f Taxation The tax effect of different items of expenditure is allocated between the capital return and revenue return using the Companys effective rate of tax for the year.
Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date other than those differences regarded as permanent.
This is subject to deferred tax assets only being recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable profits from which the future reversal of timing differences can be deducted.
Any liability to deferred tax is provided at the average rate of tax expected to apply.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted to reflect the time value of money.
g Bank borrowings Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including interest payable, premiums on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the Income Statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
h Preference stocks Under FRS 25 preference and preferred ordinary stocks are classified as debt previously included within Capital and Reserves as non equity interests.
The dividends associated with the preference and preferred ordinary stocks are charged fully to the Companys revenue return within finance costs.
i Dividends payable to equity shareholders Under FRS 21 dividends should not be accrued in the accounts unless they have been approved by shareholders before the balance sheet date.
Interim dividends payable to equity shareholders are recognised in the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds once they have been paid to shareholders.
2008 2007 2 Losses gains from investments held at fair value through profit or loss 000 000 Realised gains based on historical cost 29,346 34,445 Less: amounts recognised as unrealised in previous years 31,736 23,616 Realised losses gains based on carrying value at the previous balance sheet date 2,390 10,829 Net movement in unrealised appreciation 146,970 96,598 Exchange differences 15 10 Total losses gains from investments held at fair value through profit or loss 149,375 107,437
