The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 33 Notes to the Accounts 1 Accounting policies a Basis of accounting The accounts are prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and with the Revised Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies dated December 2005 the Revised SORP.
All of the Companys operations are of a continuing nature.
b Valuation of investments Listed investments are valued at fair value deemed to be bid market prices or the last traded price depending on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
Unquoted investments are valued by the directors using primary valuation techniques such as earnings multiples, recent transactions and net assets.
Where fair value cannot reliably be measured the investment will be carried at the previous reporting date value unless there is evidence that the investment has since been impaired, in which case the value will be reduced.
Changes in the fair value of investments held at fair value through profit or loss and gains and losses on disposal are recognised in the Income Statement as Gains or losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss.
Transaction costs incurred on the purchase and disposal of investments are recognised as a capital item in the Income Statement.
All purchases and sales are accounted for on a trade date basis.
c Foreign currency The results and financial position of the Company are expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency and presentational currency of the Company.
Sterling is the functional currency because it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Transactions recorded in overseas currencies during the year are translated into sterling at the appropriate daily exchange rates.
Assets and liabilities denominated in overseas currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at that date.
Any gains or losses on the translation of foreign currency balances, whether realised or unrealised, are taken to the capital or to the revenue return of the Income Statement, depending on whether the gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature.
d Income Dividends receivable from equity shares are taken to the revenue return on an ex-dividend basis except where, in the opinion of the directors, the dividend is capital in nature in which case it is taken to the capital return.
Income from fixed interest debt securities and preference shares is recognised using the effective interest rate method in accordance with the SORP.
Bank interest is accounted for on an accruals basis.
e Management and administrative expenses and finance charges All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
In accordance with the Boards expectation, over the long term, that investment returns will be attributable 70% to capital gains and 30% to income, the Company charges to capital 70% of the finance costs excluding dividends payable on the preference and preferred ordinary stocks and management fees.
Performance fees earned are allocated between capital and revenue based on the outperformance attributable to capital and revenue respectively.
