22 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The directors, to the best of their knowledge, state that: and the financial statements in accordance with applicable the financial statements, prepared in accordance with UK law and regulations.
Accounting Standards, give a true and fair view of the Company law requires the directors to prepare financial assets, liabilities, financial position and net revenue of the statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Company: and directors have elected to prepare financial statements in the Report of the Directors report includes a fair review of accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards the development and performance of the business and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the position of the Company together with a description The financial statements are required by law to give a true of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the net revenue of the Company for that year.
In preparing The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting these financial statements, the directors are required to: records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure select suitable accounting policies and then apply them that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act consistently: 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prudent: prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have Signed on behalf of the Board of directors been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern S M fide Zoete Chairman basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
8 September 2008 The accounts are published on a website maintained by the Companys Manager, Henderson Global Investors Limited Henderson.
The maintenance and integrity of the website is the responsibility of Henderson: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
