ID4530 Bc AR 2008 Insides 88pp 05. qxp 16 3 09 16:19 Page 76 Independent Auditors' Report to the members of Bodycote plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION Bodycote plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 10.
These parent company on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant set out therein.
to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant We have reported separately on the group financial statements of estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation Bodycote plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 and on the of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the information in the board report on remuneration report that is accounting policies are appropriate to the company's circumstances, described as having been audited.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors company financial statements are free from material misstatement, report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit of information in the parent company financial statements.
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
OPINION RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS In our opinion: The directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement Practice, of the state of the company's affairs as at 31 December 2008: of Directors' Responsibilities.
the parent company financial statements have been properly Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the parent company financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the Directors' Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
The information given in the Directors' Report includes the information presented in the Group Deloitte LLP Business Review cross-referred from the Directors Report.
Chartered Accountants and Manchester Registered Auditors 25 February 2009 In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors' remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
