ID4530 Bc AR 2008 Insides 88pp 05. qxp 16 3 09 16:19 Page 16 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records the Board Report on Remuneration and the financial statements that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the parent requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. financial year.
The Directors are required by the IAS Regulation They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company to prepare the group financial statements under IFRSs IFRSs as and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection adopted by the European Union.
The group financial statements are of fraud and other irregularities.
also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International the corporate and financial information included on the Company's Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial statements present website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation fairly for each financial year the Company's financial position, financial and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation performance and cash ows.
This requires the faithful representation in other jurisdictions.
of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the denitions and recognition criteria for assets, We confirm to the best of our knowledge: liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting 1. the financial statements, prepared for the purposes of the Standards Board's 'Framework for the preparation and presentation consolidation in accordance with International Financial Reporting of financial statements'.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation Standards as adopted by the EU and for the purposes of the will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
parents separate financial statements in accordance with UK However, Directors are also required to: Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 1 properly select and apply accounting policies: loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 2 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner consolidation taken as a whole: and that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 2. the Group Business Review, which is incorporated into the information: and Directors Report, includes a fair review of the development and 3 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the performance of the business and the position of the Company specic requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a users to understand the impact of particular transactions, whole, together with a description of the principal risks and other events and conditions on the entity's financial position uncertainties they face.
The Directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: S. C. Harris a select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Chief Executive b make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and 25 February 2009 prudent: and c state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
D. F. Landless Finance Director 25 February 2009 16 Bodycote annual report 2008
