ID4530 Bc AR 2008 Insides 88pp 05. qxp 16 3 09 16:19 Page 33 Accounting Policies BASIS OF ACCOUNTING of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of The financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance acquisition below the Groups share of the fair values of the identiable with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The financial net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition i. e. discount on statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted acquisition is credited in profit and loss in the period of acquisition.
by the European Union and therefore the group financial statements Where a group company transacts with an associate of the Group, comply with article 4 of EU IAS Regulation as adopted for use in the EU.
profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in The Group has adopted Standards and Interpretations issued by the the relevant associate.
Losses may provide evidence of an impairment International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the International of the asset transferred, in which case appropriate provision is made Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee of the IASB.
standards and interpretations have to be adopted by the European NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE Commission EC and the process leads to a delay between the issue and Non-current assets and disposal groups classied as held for sale are adoption of new standards and in some cases amendment by the EC.
measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
International Financial Reporting Standards are subject to ongoing Non-current assets and disposal groups are classied as held for sale if amendment by the IASB and subsequent endorsement by the EC their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather and are therefore subject to change.
This condition is regarded as met only when The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available basis, with the exception of accounting for share-based payments and for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition are set out below.
as a completed sale within one year from the date of classication.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION GOODWILL The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identiable made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the assets and liabilities of a subsidiary or associate at the date of acquisition.
Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least of an investee entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a is not subsequently reversed.
subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
On disposal of a subsidiary or associate, the attributable amount of Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identiable goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identiable net assets Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to being in the period of acquisition.
The interest of minority shareholders is tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
interest in excess of the minority interest are allocated against the REVENUE RECOGNITION interests of the parent.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the used by the Group.
rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise THE GROUP AS LESSEE significant inuence, but not control or joint control, through participation Leases are classied as finance leases whenever the terms of the in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classied as operating leases.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance investments.
Losses of the associates in excess of the Groups interest sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned in those associates are not recognised.
between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
fair values of the identiable net assets of the associate at the date Bodycote annual report 2008 33 ID4530 Bc AR 2008 Insides 88pp 05. qxp 16 3 09 16:19 Page 34 Accounting Policies Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside profit or loss and presented in the statement of recognised Benets received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating income and expense.
lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the THE GROUP AS LESSOR benets are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straightAmounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as line basis over the average period until the benets become vested.
receivables at the amount of the Groups net investment in the leases.
Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reect The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet a constant periodic rate of return on the Groups net investment represents the present value of the dened benefit obligation, as outstanding in respect of the leases.
reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES TAXATION Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or are included in net profit or loss for the period.
deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average the balance sheet date.
exchange rates for the period unless exchange rates uctuate Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on signicantly.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classied as differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance which the operation is disposed of.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be and translated at the closing rate.
The Group has elected to treat available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions before the Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference date of transition to IFRS as sterling-denominated assets and liabilities.
arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction BORROWING COSTS that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in GOVERNMENT GRANTS joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary treated as deferred income and released to profit and loss over the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in INCOME STATEMENT the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring costs, goodwill tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates impairment, amortisation of acquired intangible assets and after the to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred post-tax share of results of associates but before investment income and tax is also dealt with in equity.
Amounts presented in the income statement for acquisitions relate to businesses acquired during the current or prior year.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
In accordance with IFRS 5, non-current assets held for sale and Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other discontinued operations, the Group has separately disclosed the results of the Testing business as discontinued following the disposal of the than land and properties under construction, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases: business in October 2008.
Comparative amounts in the income statement have also been restated.
Freehold buildings 2% Leasehold property over the period of the lease RETIREMENT BENEFIT COSTS Payments to dened contribution retirement benefit schemes are Fixtures and ttings 10% - 20% Plant and machinery 5% - 20% charged as an expense as they fall due.
Payments made to statemanaged retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments Motor vehicles 20% - 33% to dened contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a dened contribution useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, retirement benefit scheme.
over the term of the relevant lease.
For dened benefit schemes, the cost of providing benets is determined The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
34 Bodycote annual report 2008 ID4530 Bc AR 2008 Insides 88pp 05. qxp 16 3 09 16:19 Page 35 IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any provisions of the instrument.
such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated Trade Receivables in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their the asset does not generate cash ows that are independent from nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the irrecoverable amounts.
cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible are discounted to their present value using a discount rate that reects to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignicant risk of current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks changes in value.
specic to the asset for which the estimates of future cash ows have not been adjusted.
Financial Liabilities and Equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classied according to If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Bank Borrowings Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate received, net of transaction costs.
Finance charges, including premiums of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined for on an accruals basis to the income statement using the effective had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset cash-generating interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade Payables Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that Equity Instruments occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds estimated future cash ows of the investment have been impacted.
received, net of direct issue costs.
Objective evidence of impairment could include: PROVISIONS Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has significant financial difficulty of the customer or counterparty: or a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated default or delinquency in payments to affected parties.
For certain categories of financial asset, such as trade receivables, DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are The Group uses derivative financial instruments, in particular interest subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
rate swaps, foreign currency swaps and forward exchange contracts Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could to manage the financial risks arising from the business activities and include the Groups past experience of collecting payments, an the nancing of those activities.
The Group does not use derivative increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the financial instruments for speculative purposes.
average credit period of 68 days, as well as observable changes in The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles receivables.
on the use of financial derivatives.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of measured at their fair value on the balance sheet date.
Changes in the trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not full the criteria for use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is considered hedge accounting contained in IAS 39 are recognised immediately in uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the HEDGE ACCOUNTING allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
The Group uses foreign currency debt and cross currency swaps to hedge its exposure to changes in the underlying net assets of overseas INVENTORIES operations arising from foreign exchange rate movements.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour The Group maintains documentation of the relationship between the costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the hedged item and the hedging instrument at the inception of a hedging inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value transaction together with the risk management objective and the represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of strategy underlying the designated hedge.
The Group also documents completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
its assessment, both at the inception of the hedging relationship and Bodycote annual report 2008 35 ID4530 Bc AR 2008 Insides 88pp 05. qxp 16 3 09 16:19 Page 36 Accounting Policies subsequently on an ongoing basis, of the effectiveness of the hedge KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY in offsetting movements in the fair values or cash ows of the The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources hedged items.
of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying When hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging relationships are amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, classied as fair value hedges, cash ow hedges or net investment hedges.
Fair Value Hedge Impairment of Goodwill and Fixed Assets Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify Determining whether goodwill and xed assets are impaired requires as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that the assets have been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires are attributable to the hedged risk.
the entity to estimate the future cash ows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate Cash Flow Hedge Cash ow hedging matches the cash ows of hedged items against present value.
the corresponding cash ow of the derivative.
The effective part of any Retirement benefit Schemes gain or loss on the derivative is recognised directly in equity and the Accounting for retirement benefit schemes under IAS19 requires an hedged item is accounted for in accordance with the policy for that assessment of the future benets payable in accordance with actuarial financial instrument.
Any ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised assumptions, which are set out in note 31. immediately in the income statement.
GENERAL INFORMATION Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires Bodycote plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualies for hedge the Companies Acts 1948 to 1980.
The address of the registered accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging ofce is given on page 28.
The nature of the Groups operations and instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted its principal activities are set out on page 13 of the Directors Report.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because to net profit or loss for the period.
that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with Net Investment Hedge the policies set out in the Foreign Currencies accounting policy above.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash ow hedges.
To the extent the hedge is effective, changes in the At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the fair value of the hedging instrument arising from the hedged risk are following Standards and Interpretations that are expected to impact recognised directly in equity rather than in the income statement.
on the Group but which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement in the event that the foreign operation is disposed of.
With the exception of changes in disclosure, the Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
The Directors anticipate that the Group will adopt these In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied standards and interpretations on their effective dates.
to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
IFRS 8 Operating segments, issued in November 2006, effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at IAS 23 Borrowing costs, revised version issued in March 2007, fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements, revised version issued straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups in September 2007, effective for annual periods beginning on or estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect after 1 January 2009. of non-market based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model.
IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements, revised version issued in January 2008 effective for annual periods beginning on or CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING THE GROUPS after 1 July 2009.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are IFRS 3 Business Combinations, revised version issued in January 2008 described above, management has made the following judgements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in The impact of all other standards and interpretations not yet adopted the financial statements apart from those involving estimations, is not expected to be material.
which are dealt with below.
Provisions for environmental liabilities The Group provides for the costs of environmental remediation that have been identied, either as part of acquisition due diligence, or in other circumstances where remediation by the Group is required.
The provision is reviewed annually.
