Being a member s of Dexion Absolute Limited, and entitled to vote, hereby appoint the Chairman of the Meeting or the representative of the Company Secretary please delete as appropriate or.................................................................................................................................................................................... As my our proxy to vote for me us and on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held at 9.30 a. m. on 24 June 2009 at 1 Le Truchot, St Peter Port, Guernsey and at any adjournment thereof.
Please indicate by placing a cross in the appropriate spaces below how you wish your votes to be cast.
Unless otherwise indicated the proxy will exercise his discretion both as to how he votes and as to whether or not he abstains from voting.
Vote Ordinary Resolution For Against Withheld 1.
Adoption of the Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2008 2.
Appointment of KPMG Channel Islands Limited as Auditors of the Company for the year ending 31 December 2009 together with the ratification of their remuneration 3.
Re-election of Mr Peter Walsh 4.
Re-election of Mr Robin Bowie 5.
Authorisation to allot ordinary shares and or C shares of any currency class in accordance with the resolution in the Notice 6.
Please see Notes on page 2 of this Proxy 47 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2008 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS Notes: 1.
If you desire someone other than the Chairman or a representative of the Company Secretary to act as your proxy, delete the Chairman of the Meeting or the representative of the Company Secretary above and insert the name of the proxy desired.
If you wish to appoint the representative of the Company Secretary to act as your proxy delete the Chairman of the Meeting or.
If you do not delete these words and you do not insert the name of an alternative proxy in the space provided, you will be deemed to have appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as your proxy.
Any such proxy need not be a member of the Company.
In the case of a corporation this proxy must be executed under Common Seal or under the hand of an officer or duly authorised attorney.
In the case of joint holders the signature of the person whose name stands first in the Register is sufficient.
To appoint more than one proxy you may photocopy this form.
Please indicate the proxy holders name and the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy which, in aggregate, should not exceed the number of shares held by you.
Please also indicate if the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being given.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
CREST members should use the CREST electronic proxy appointment service and refer to Note 4 of the Notice of Annual General Meeting in relation to the submission of a proxy appointment via CREST.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
To be effective this Form of Proxy, duly completed together with any power of attorney or authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such power of attorney or other authority, must be lodged with the Companys transfer agent Capita Registrars, Proxy Department, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU not less than 48 hours before the time fixed for the AGM.
The lodging of a completed Form of Proxy does not preclude a member from attending, speaking and voting at the AGM.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for or against a resolution.
48 FORM OF PROXY CONTINUED Short Biographies Peter P Walsh, Chairman, aged 63, appointed 26 November 2002, holds a small number of directorships and appointments.
He began his career with District Bank now part of The Royal Bank of Scotland in Manchester in 1963, before joining the Bank of Bermuda in 1968 where he worked for 11 years.
He joined the Barings Group in Guernsey in 1979, becoming a Director of Barings Guernsey Limited in 1981, Managing Director in June 1989 and then Chairman of the offshore group in December 1993.
He joined the main board of Baring Asset Management Holdings Limited BAMH in February 1990 and was appointed a Managing Director in November 1993.
He became Group Chief Operating Officer of BAMH in October 1995, which he combined with his role of Group Deputy Chairman in February 1997.
He retired at the end of December 2000.
Mr Walsh is a resident of Guernsey.
Robin M J Bowie, aged 47, appointed 26 November 2002, was educated at Vanderbilt University, Tennessee.
He began his City career as a bond trader at Citibank in 1984, after which he worked at Goldman Sachs as a credit trader.
In 1989, at BZW he developed their ECU and European Government Bond trading operations and in 1995 moved to HSBC where he was in charge of European Government Bond trading.
In 1998 he became Treasurer of KBC Bank in London with responsibility for the management of interest rate, foreign exchange and credit risk.
He left KBC in 2000 to found Dexion Capital.
He is a director of Dexion Capital Holdings Limited, a Guernsey company which is the holding company of the Manager and the Investment Consultant.
He is also a director of Dexion Trading Limited, Dexion Equity Alternative Limited and Dexion Alpha Strategies Limited, which are funds of hedge funds, the shares of which are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
He also sits on the board of a number of single manager hedge funds.
D fide ex xiio on n A Ab bs so ollu ut te e L Liim miit te ed d 1 Le Truchot St Peter Port Guernsey email: clientservices@dexionabsolute.
