DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2008 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS NOTICE OF 2009 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN PURSUANT TO THE ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION OF DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED THAT the 2009 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of the Company will take place at 1 Le Truchot, St Peter Port, Guernsey on 24 June 2009 at 9.30 a. m. for the purpose of considering and, if thought fit, passing the following ordinary resolutions: ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS: 1.
That the Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2008 with the Report of the Directors and Auditors thereon be received and adopted.
That the appointment of KPMG Channel Islands Limited as Auditors of the Company for the year ending 31 December 2009 together with the fixing of their remuneration by the Directors for that period be and is hereby approved and ratified.
That Mr Peter Walsh be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr Robin Bowie be re-elected as a Director.
That the directors be and are hereby authorised to allot Ordinary Shares and or C Shares of any currency class Relevant Securities as if article 6 of the Articles did not apply to any such allotment PROVIDED THAT this power shall be limited to the allotment of Relevant Securities of each currency class or in the case of C Shares which would, on conversion, on the basis of the net asset value of a Correspondent Share as at a date determined by the directors for the purpose and assuming such expenses of issue as the directors may determine, convert into up to 10% of the number of the same class of Ordinary Shares in issue as at the date of this resolution or where there are no Ordinary Shares of that currency class then in issue up to 10% of the aggregate number of Ordinary Shares in issue at the date of this resolution and for all purposes of calculating the number of Ordinary Shares in issue, Ordinary Shares held in treasury shall be excluded and shall expire on the earlier of i the date which is 18 months after the date of this resolution and ii the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution save that a the directors may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require Relevant Securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot Relevant Securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired and b the limitation on this power shall not apply to Relevant Securities allotted on conversion of or in substitution for other Relevant Securities already in issue.
That the Company be and is hereby authorised in accordance with section 315 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 to make market purchases of Ordinary Shares in the Company Market Purchases provided that: a The maximum number of Ordinary Shares authorised to be purchased is 14.99% of the issued Ordinary Shares of each currency class in issue excluding Ordinary Shares of that class held in treasury as at the date of the Annual General Meeting: b The minimum price to be paid for Market Purchases for each Ordinary Share is 1 pence and the maximum price to be paid for Market Purchases is the higher of i 5% above the average of the mid-market values of the Ordinary Shares of that class for the 5 business days before the purchase is made and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and highest current bid as stipulated by Article 5 1 of Commission Regulation EC 22 December 2003 implementing the Market Abuse Directive as regards exemptions for buy back programmes and stabilisation of financial investments No.
2233 2003 and otherwise in accordance with the Companies Guernsey Law 2008: and 45 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2008 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS c such authorities shall expire at the earlier of 23 December 2010 or the conclusion of the Companys annual general meeting in 2010.
By order of the Board Company Secretary Dexion Capital Guernsey Limited 1 Le Truchot St Peter Port Guernsey Notes regarding the Annual General Meeting AGM 1.
Shareholders will only be entitled to attend, speak and vote at the Annual General Meeting if they are registered as the holders of Ordinary Shares at 9.30 a. m. on 22 June 2009.
This record time is being set for voting at the Annual General Meeting because the procedures for updating the register of members in respect of Ordinary Shares held in uncertificated form require a record time to be set for the purpose of determining entitlements to attend and vote at Shareholder meetings.
The Ordinary Shares are included for trading in uncertificated electronic form in CREST.
A holder of Ordinary Shares is entitled to attend, speak and vote at this Annual General Meeting and may appoint a proxy to attend, speak and, vote in his place.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A holder of ordinary shares may appoint more than one person in relation to the Annual General Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by the holder.
To be valid, the relevant instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power of attorney or other authority, must be received at the office of the Companys transfer agent, Capita Registrars, Proxy Department, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU not less than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting or adjourned meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the AGM and any adjournment s of the meeting by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys agent ID RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The completion and return of a valid form of proxy will not prevent holders of Ordinary Shares from attending, speaking and voting in person at the meeting if so desired.
Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they appoint agree, by attending the Annual General Meeting, that they are expressly requesting and that they are willing to receive any communications including communications relating to the Companys securities made at the Annual General Meeting.
A list of the names and addresses of all members other than the Company itself where it holds its own shares as treasury shares showing the number of shares respectively held by them shall be available for inspection in the Annual General Meeting meeting room at such office from 15 minutes prior to the Annual General Meetings commencement until its conclusion.
