Statement of Directors Responsibilities Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors and the financial statements in accordance with applicable Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement law and regulations.
that comply with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial The directors are responsible for the maintenance and statements for each financial year.
Under that law they have integrity of the corporate and financial information included elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing with UK Accounting Standards.
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
that: In preparing these financial statements, the directors are the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the required to: applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of consistently: the Company: and make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and the Directors Report includes a fair review of the prudent: development and performance of the business and the state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have position of the Company, together with a description of the been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed principal risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis For Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will Tony Cassidy continue in business.
Chairman The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 16 October 2008 records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
