Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty-first annual general meeting of Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc will be held at 40 Princes Street, Edinburgh EH2 2BY on 17 December 2008 at 11.00 am to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, of which resolutions 1 to 11 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 12 and 13 will be proposed as special resolutions: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive the reports of the directors and auditors and the audited financial statements for the year to 31 August 2008.
To receive the Directors Remuneration Report for the year to 31 August 2008.
To approve a payment of a final dividend of 1.6p per ordinary share.
To re-elect Mr Cassidy as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Tyrie as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Watt as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Frame, aged 78, as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Gairns, aged 72, as a director of the Company.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next annual general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of the auditor for the year to 31 August 2009.
That, in substitution for any existing power under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, but without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date of this resolution, the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 80 of the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in section 80 2 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 15,396,958, such authority to expire on 28 February 2010 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company to be held after the passing of this resolution, unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting, save that the Company may, at any time prior to the expiry of such authority, make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after the expiry of such authority, and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such authority had not expired.
That, subject to the passing of resolution numbered 11 in the notice convening the meeting at which this resolution is to be proposed the notice of meeting and in substitution for any existing power under section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the directors be and are hereby generally empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of sections 94 2 to 94 3A of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority under section 80 of the Act conferred by the resolution numbered 11 in the notice of meeting as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 15,396,958, provided that this power shall be limited: i to the allotment of equity securities in connection with any issue in favour of the holders of ordinary shares on the register on a date fixed by the directors where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all the holders of ordinary shares are proportionate as nearly as practicable to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them on that date, provided that the directors may make such exclusions or other arrangements as they may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws in any territory or the requirements of any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange: and ii to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to paragraph i of this resolution of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,309,544, being 5% of the nominal value of the existing issued share capital of the Company: and shall expire on 28 February 2010 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting, save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
That, in substitution for any existing authority under section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, but without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised, in accordance with section 166 of the Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of fully paid ordinary shares of 20p each in the capital of the Company shares provided that: Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 51 i the maximum aggregate number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 14.99% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the date of the passing of this resolution: ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall be 20p exclusive of expenses : iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a share shall be an amount being not more than the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid relating to a share on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out: and iv unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 28 February 2010 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company to be held after the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may, at any time prior to such expiry, enter into a contract or contracts to purchase shares under such authority which would or might be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract or contracts as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
By order of the board Registered office: Edinburgh Fund Managers plc 40 Princes Street Secretary Edinburgh EH2 2BY 11 November 2008 Notes: i A member is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote on their behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
A member may not appoint more then one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share.
ii A form of proxy for use by shareholders is enclosed with these accounts.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent any shareholder from attending the meeting and voting in person.
To be valid, the form of proxy should be lodged, together with any power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority at the address stated thereon, so as to be received not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
iii In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertified Securities Regulations 2001, to have the right to attend and vote at the Meeting a member must first have his or her name entered in the Companys register of members by not later than forty eight hours before the time fixed for the Meeting or, in the event that the Meeting is adjourned, forty eight hours before the time of the adjourned Meeting.
Changes to entries on that register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any member to attend and vote at the Meeting referred to above.
iv The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the Company in accordance with Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the member who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in notes i and ii above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these notes can only be exercised by members of the Company.
v No Director has a service contract with the Company but copies of Directors letters of appointment will be available for inspection for at least 15 minutes prior to the Meeting and during the Meeting.
vi As at close of business on 3 November 2008, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document the Companys issued share capital comprised 230,954,375 Ordinary shares of 20p each.
The total number of voting rights in the Company as at 3 November 2008 is 230,954,375. vii In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate member has appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that member at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the chairman and the chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate member attends the meeting but the corporate member has not appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate 52 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc representative.
Corporate members are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
viii The members of the Company may require the Company to publish, on its website, a statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts, including the Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit, which they intend to raise at the next meeting of the Company.
The Company will be required to do so once it has received such requests from either i members representing at least 5% of the total voting rights of the Company or ii at least 100 members who have a relevant right to vote and hold shares in the Company on which there has been paid up an average sum per member of at least 100 ix There are special arrangements for holders of shares through the Aberdeen's Investment Plan for Children, Aberdeen's Investment Trust Share Plan, Investment Trust ISA and Investment Trust Pension.
These are explained in the Letter of Direction which such holders will have received with this report.
