Notice of Meeting Act, that they may have the right under an agreement with attend or vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any the registered member by whom they were nominated to provisions in any enactment, the Articles of Association be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a of the Company or other instrument to the contrary.
If they have no such right, or do 6.
There are special arrangements for holders of shares not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such through the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan and the an agreement to give instructions to the member as to Fidelity ISA PEP, and for holders through the Aberdeen the exercise of voting rights.
Nominated persons should Investment Trust Share Plan, the Aberdeen Investment contact the registered member by whom they were Trust PEP, the Aberdeen ISA and the Edinburgh Fund nominated in respect of these arrangements.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities in the Letter of Direction which such holders will have Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that only those received with this report.
shareholders entered on the register of members of the 7.
Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they Company as at 6.00pm on 19 July 2008 or, in the event that appoint agree by attending the meeting that they are the meeting is adjourned, on the register of members 48 expressly agreeing that they are willing to receive any hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be communications, including communications relating entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the to the Companys securities, made at the meeting.
number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that 8.
Copies of the Directors letters of appointment will be time.
Changes to the entries in the register of members available prior to the Annual General Meeting.
No after 6.00pm on 19 July 2008 or, in the event that the Director has a service contract with the Company.
meeting is adjourned, on the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be Registered office: disregarded in determining the rights of any person to Quartermile One, 15 Lauriston Place, Edinburgh EH3 9EP Financial Calendar FINANCIAL CALENDAR This years Annual General Meeting will be held at the Weston Link, National Galleries of Scotland, Princes Street, Edinburgh on Monday 21 July 2008 at 2.30pm.
Shareholders are asked to reply on the enclosed form if they will be attending the meeting.
Following the meeting shareholders will have the opportunity to meet the Board and representatives of the Manager informally.
Tea and biscuits will be served.
Announcements, ordinary share dividend payments, debenture stock interest payments and the issue of the annual and half yearly reports may normally be expected in the following months: June Annual report and financial statements November Report for half year to 30 September published.
December Interest paid on 11% debenture stock.
July Annual General Meeting and final February Second interim dividend paid.
March Interest paid on 7% debenture stock.
September Interest paid on 7% debenture stock.
May Third interim dividend paid.
Preliminary October Half yearly figures announced.
figures and recommended final dividend for year announced.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2008 Page 51
