Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and i the maximum number of shares hereby authorised nineteenth Annual General Meeting of The Edinburgh to be purchased is 14.99% of the issued share capital Investment Trust plc will be held at the Weston of the Company as at the date of the passing of Link, National Galleries of Scotland, Princes Street, this resolution: Edinburgh on Monday 21 July 2008 at 2.30pm, ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share for the following purposes: shall be 25p: iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may ORDINARY BUSINESS be paid for a share shall be an amount equal to 105% 1.
To receive the report of the Directors and Auditors of the average of the middle market quotations as and the financial statements for the year ended derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily 31 March 2008.
Official List for the shares for the five business days 2.
To approve a final dividend on the ordinary shares.
immediately preceding the date of purchase: and 3.
To re-elect Mr Scott Dobbie a Director of iv unless previously revoked, renewed or varied, the the Company.
authority hereby conferred shall expire on the earlier 4.
To re-elect Sir Nigel Wicks a Director of the Company.
of 20 January 2009 or at the conclusion of the Annual 5.
To re-elect Mr Richard Barfield a Director of General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2009, the Company.
save that the Company may, prior to such expiry enter 6.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report into a contract or contracts to purchase shares under for the year ended 31 March 2008. such authority which would or might be executed 7.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors of wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority the Company.
and the Company may make such a purchase in 8.
To authorise the Directors to determine the pursuance of any such contract or contracts as if remuneration of the Auditors for the year to the authority hereby conferred had not expired.
That, the revised Articles of Association, in the To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following form produced to the Annual General Meeting resolutions.
and initialled by the Chairman of the Meeting for the purpose of identification be adopted Special Resolution as the Articles of Association of the Company 9.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the the Company be and it is hereby authorised in existing Articles of Association.
accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to make market purchases within By order of the Board the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of any of its ordinary shares of 25p each shares in such manner Fidelity Investments International and upon such terms as the Directors of the Company Secretary may from time to time determine, provided that: 10 June 2008 NOTES: 1.
A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the meeting meeting or adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies who need not be taken more than 48 hours after it is demanded, not less a shareholder of the Company to exercise all or any of than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking his rights to attend, speak and vote at the Annual General of the poll at which it is to be used.
Where more than one proxy is appointed, each 3.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who proxy must be appointed for different shares.
A proxy need tenders the vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of not be a member of the Company.
the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose, 2.
A form of proxy for use by shareholders is enclosed with seniority shall be determined by the order in which the these financial statements.
Completion and return of the names stand in the Register of Members.
form of proxy will not prevent any shareholder from 4.
In accordance with Section 325 of the Companies Act 2006 attending the meeting and voting in person.
To be valid, 2006 Act the right to appoint proxies does not apply the form of proxy should be lodged, together with any to persons nominated to receive information rights under power of attorney or other authority if any under which Section 146 of the 2006 Act.
Persons nominated to receive it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such power information rights under Section 146 of the 2006 Act who or authority at the address stated thereon, so as to be have been sent a copy of this notice of meeting are hereby received not less than 48 hours before the time of the informed, in accordance with Section 149 2 of the 2006 Page 50 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2008
