Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding report and the financial statements in accordance with the assets of the Company and hence for taking applicable law and regulations.
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under Under applicable law and regulations the Directors that law they have elected to prepare the financial are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report statements in accordance with UK Generally including a Business Review, a Directors Remuneration Accepted Accounting Practice.
Report and a Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and of the profit or loss for that period.
and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website www.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and required to: dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable financial statements, prepared in accordance with the and prudent: applicable set of accounting standards, give a true state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position have been followed, subject to any material and profit or loss of the Company: and the Directors departures disclosed and explained in the financial Report includes a fair review of the development and statements: and performance of the business and the position of the prepare the financial statements on the going Company together with a description of the principal concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume risks and uncertainties it faces.
that the Company will continue in business.
Approved by the Board on 29 May 2008 and signed The Directors are responsible for keeping proper on its behalf by accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that its Scott Dobbie financial statements comply with the Companies Chairman Capital Gains Tax Information The market value of an ordinary share in the Company on 31 March 1982 was 58.49p.
The price does not apply to shares held in Scottish United Investors plc at 31 March 1982 which were subsequently acquired by the Company.
Page 26 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2008
