Appendix EXPLANATORY NOTE OF PRINCIPAL success.
The independent Directors will be able to PROPOSED CHANGES TO THE COMPANYS impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation of ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION which they think is appropriate.
Resolution 10 in the Notice of Meeting included in this The New Articles also contain provisions to ensure that Annual Report is a special resolution relating to the a Director must not impart confidential information in adoption of new Articles of Association New Articles respect of the matter which gives rise to a conflict of in order to take account of changes in company law interest or potential conflict of interest, if under a duty brought about by the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 of confidentiality to another company.
Since it is expected that the 2006 Act will not be also contain provisions stating that a Director need fully in force until October 2009, there may be further not participate in Board discussions or consider Board changes to be made to the New Articles at the papers in respect of the matter which gives rise to a Companys annual general meeting in 2009.
The conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest.
These proposed principal changes to be made to the existing provisions will only apply where the position giving rise Articles of Association Existing Articles are set out to the potential conflict has previously been authorised below.
The proposed New Articles showing all the by the Directors in accordance with the 2006 Act.
changes are available for inspection at the Companys registered office from the date of this Annual Report 2.
Electronic communications until the close of the Annual General Meeting.
The Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act, allowed companies to use electronic communications in 1.
Directors conflicts of interests certain contexts, for instance to send annual financial The 2006 Act sets out Directors general duties.
The statements and notices of meetings to shareholders.
provisions largely codify the existing law, but with some The new provisions in the 2006 Act apply more changes.
Under the 2006 Act, a Director must avoid a generally to all types of company communications situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect made pursuant to the 2006 Act.
In order for the interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the Company to fully implement the new electronic Companys interests, or otherwise ensure that such communications regime in the future, shareholders conflict is approved by shareholders in general meeting, must approve the New Articles.
This requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a Director becomes a Director of another The amendments to the Existing Articles will not of company or a trustee of another organisation.
The themselves force either the Company or any individual 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to shareholder to send or receive notices, documents authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of other or information including annual financial statements Directors where the articles of association contain and circulars by electronic means.
They will, however, a provision to this effect.
allow the Company to approach the shareholders in the future for their individual agreement to use electronic The relevant provisions of the 2006 Act in relation to mail and or publication on the Companys website for conflicts of interest will not come into force until 1 Company communications.
It is the Boards intention October 2008.
However, in anticipation of this, it is that it will, in due course, approach shareholders for proposed that the New Articles will have an effective their individual agreement to use either electronic mail provision which will give the Directors authority to and or publication on the Companys website of approve such conflicts of interest.
There are safeguards Company communications.
Shareholders should ensure which will apply when Directors decide whether to that they read such a request letter carefully and follow authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
Firstly, only the instructions set out in it.
The implementation of independent Directors ie those who have no interest in the electronic communications regime will enable the the matter being considered will be able to take the Company to reduce costs, reduce the environmental relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision impact of its business and generally enhance the level the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good and quality of communications with shareholders.
faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys Page 52 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2008 Appendix 3.
Age limit 3.1 The New Articles reflect the fact that the 2006 Act The Existing Articles state that a Director must resign does not contain any references to extraordinary once he reaches the age of 70.
Such a provision general meetings of shareholders.
Under the 2006 could now fall foul of the Employment Equality Age Act, any meeting other than an annual general Regulations 2006 and it is therefore proposed that this meeting is simply classified as a general meeting.
provision is removed from the New Articles.
It is worth noting that shareholders will still have the opportunity 3.2 It is now the position under the 2006 Act, that to propose a resolution for the removal of the Directors future annual general meetings of the Company under the relevant legislation.
The New Articles will must be held within 6 months of the end of the also continue to provide that a Director must vacate relevant accounting reference period.
The 1985 his office, if, amongst other things, he becomes Act previously stated that annual general meetings incapable by reason of unsound mind, he is absent must be held once in every calendar year.
The from meetings for 6 consecutive months, he is declared New Articles therefore reflect this.
bankrupt or his co-Directors elect to remove him from office.
In addition, the AIC Code on Corporate 3.3 The provisions in the Existing Articles dealing with Governance provides that once a Director serves a 9 the convening of general meetings and length of year term, he shall submit himself for re-election at notice required to convene general meetings have each subsequent annual general meeting.
now been amended to conform to new provisions in the 2006 Act.
In particular, a general meeting to 7.
Directors indemnities consider a special resolution can be convened on The 2006 Act now provides that a company which 14 clear days notice whereas previously, 21 clear is a trustee of an occupational pension scheme can days notice was required.
now indemnify a Director against liability incurred in connection with the companys activities as trustee 4.
The New Articles therefore reflect The 2006 Act now provides that shareholders can this change.
Proxies can also now speak at general meetings.
The 2006 Act also provides that proxies shall have the same right to vote on a show of hands as shareholders.
The New Articles therefore reflect these provisions.
Transfers of shares The 2006 Act provides that if the Directors refuse to register a transfer, then in addition to sending the purported transferee notice of refusal, the Directors must also give reasons for the refusal and any further information about such reasons that the purported transferee may reasonably request.
The Existing Articles have therefore been amended in this regard.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2008 Page 53 Investing in The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc The Manager of this Company Fidelity Investments International offers a range of options, so that you can invest in the way that is best for you.
As The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc is a company listed on the London Stock Exchange you can also buy its shares through a stockbroker, share shop or bank.
INVESTING INSIDE AN ISA Share Plan offers you a low-cost and convenient way to You may invest in the Companys shares through the put money into The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc.
The Fidelity ISA Individual Savings Account.
A Fidelity minimum investment is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 as a ISA can be an excellent way to get more from your top-up or 50 a month in a regular savings plan.
investment, because you will not have to pay income or capital gains tax on your returns.
Investing for children The Share Plan is a flexible and inexpensive way to invest on behalf of children.
All With effect from 6 April 2008 the distinction between you have to do is enter the initials or name of the child Mini and Maxi ISAs was removed and the maximum in the Designation Box on the Share Plan application investment in a stocks and shares ISA is 7,200. form.
A special leaflet on investing for children through investment trusts is available from Fidelity.
The minimum investment in the Fidelity ISA is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 as a top-up or 50 a month in a Charges There are no charges for buying, selling or regular savings plan.
holding shares through the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan other than Stamp duty of 0.5%, which is 5 in 1 ISA The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc is one currently payable on all share purchases.
However, if of five investment trusts managed by Fidelity.
You can you invest through an Independent Financial Adviser, invest in the entire range through the Fidelity 5 in 1 there may be an initial charge of up to 3%.
ISA, which spreads your money equally across all five investment trusts.
This offers a simple and convenient MOVING EXISTING SHARES TO FIDELITY way to invest across Europe, the UK, Japan and Asia If you have an Edinburgh Investment Trust plc ISA giving you a broadly diversified portfolio in a single or PEP with the previous manager, Edinburgh Fund investment.
"You can invest in the 5 in 1 ISA from just Managers ""EFM"", you will have been advised that 100 a month or 1,000 lump sum."
"its management has been transferred to Aberdeen Asset Management ""Aberdeen""."
You can transfer Charges The standard initial charge for the Fidelity ISA your Aberdeen ISA or PEP to Fidelity who will pay is 3.5%.
The annual ISA administration charge for The the exit fee charged by Aberdeen.
Edinburgh Investment Trust plc in a Fidelity ISA is 0.5% VAT.
There is an additional annual charge of 0.5% VAT Alternatively, if you have invested through the when you invest through a Financial Adviser.
Aberdeen Investment Trust Share Plan formerly the EFM InvestIT Saving Scheme or the EFM LEAP Saving MOVING MONEY FROM Scheme you can move your shares to the Fidelity PREVIOUS PEPS AND ISAS Investment Trust Share Plan and Fidelity will cover any If you have opened ISAs or PEPs with other investment exit fees charged by Aberdeen.
This transfer could be companies, you can move them into the Fidelity ISA particularly useful for investors who wish to restart a and invest in The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc monthly savings plan no longer available with the without losing any tax benefits.
This is known as a Aberdeen Investment Trust Share Plan and want all transfer and it can be a great way to give your their holdings together in one account.
portfolio a new focus, or to realign it with your current investment goals.
Please note that during the transfer An additional bonus for investors transferring holdings your money will not be invested in the stockmarket so from Aberdeen is that Fidelity will accept monthly you may miss out on any growth during this time.
savings contributions below its normal minimum investment of 50 a month.
Charges The standard initial charge for a transfer is 3.5%.
You will not have to pay any additional transfer Holding shares directly If you have shares in The costs.
However, please bear in mind that your current Edinburgh Investment Trust plc that you bought through ISA or PEP manager may ask you to pay an exit fee.
a broker or share shop you can transfer them into The annual charge is as shown in the Investing inside the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan.
Doing this an ISA section.
allows you to reinvest your dividends and make further investments without having to pay brokerage fees.
INVESTING OUTSIDE AN ISA You will also be able to set up a monthly savings plan If you prefer to invest outside an ISA, or have already and receive statements and valuations twice a year.
used your full ISA allowance, the Fidelity Investment Trust Page 54 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2008 Investing in The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES CONTACT INFORMATION INFORMATION RIGHTS Private investors: With effect from 1 October 2007 registered shareholders call free to 0800 41 41 10, 9am to 6pm, 7 days a week.
of fully listed companies are able to nominate the underlying beneficial owners of their shares to receive Financial advisers: information rights from 1 January 2008.
You should call free to 0800 41 41 81, 8am to 6pm, contact your registered shareholder direct to request Monday to Friday.
to receive your information rights.
Please note that beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated www.
co. uk or by the registered holder of those shares to receive www.
co. uk its information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to direct all communications to Existing shareholders who have a specific query the registered holder of their shares rather than to the regarding their holding or need to provide update Companys Registrars, Equiniti Limited, or to the information, for example a change of address, should Company direct.
contact the appropriate administrator: INVESTING ONLINE Holders of ordinary shares You can invest online in The Edinburgh Investment Equiniti Limited formerly Lloyds TSB Registrars, Trust plc shares via www.
Registrars to The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc, Fidelity ShareNetwork enables you to buy or sell shares PO Box 28448, Finance House, Orchard Brae, in any listed company during normal London Stock Edinburgh EH4 1WQ.
Exchange trading hours between 8am and 4.30pm any working day.
Shares in ShareNetwork can either be Telephone: 0871 384 2431 calls to this number are held direct or in an ISA, subject to the normal ISA limits charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
You will be shown a live price and be telephony providers costs may vary.
able to buy or sell immediately.
If an order is placed when the market is closed, it will be processed as soon www.
co. uk as the market reopens.
Unlike many online share dealing services, Fidelity ShareNetwork gives you Share Plan investors personal CREST membership for shares held direct.
Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan, Equiniti Limited This means that shares are registered on the CREST formerly Lloyds TSB Registrars, PO Box 4605, Aspect system in your own name and everything relating to House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6QY your shares dividends, annual reports and so on will be sent direct to you and you will be able to attend Telephone: 0871 384 2781 calls to this number are and vote at shareholder meetings in your own name.
charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other Personal CREST membership does not apply to ISA telephony providers costs may vary.
holdings which must be held in the name of the ISA managers nominee under ISA regulations.
Fidelity ISA PEP investors ShareNetwork has a very competitive cost structure.
Fidelity, using the freephone numbers given above, Share purchases or sales are executed on line for only or by writing to: 9 per trade.
Stamp duty is also payable on purchases at the rate of 0.5%.
There is an account administration UK Customer Service, Fidelity Investments, Oakhill fee of 5 per month, however many different shares House, 130 Tonbridge Road, Hildenborough, you own and whatever their value.
Tonbridge, Kent TN11 9DZ General enquiries should be made to Fidelity, the Investment Manager and Secretary, at Fidelity Investments International Investment Trusts, Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2008 Page 55 Investing in The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc KEEPING YOU UPDATED If you hold The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc in an ISA or PEP, you will receive a yearly report detailing all your transactions and the value of your shares.
Investors with the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan will receive statements and valuations twice a year.
The share price of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc appears daily in The Financial Times, The Times, The Guardian, The Daily Telegraph, The Scotsman and The Herald.
Price and performance information is also available at itseit.
co. uk Investors can obtain the real-time share price by phoning FT Cityline on 0906 843 0000, selecting option 2 and entering 2422 calls charged at 60p per minute on a per second basis from a BT landline.
Charges from other telephony networks may vary.
FURTHER INFORMATION For application forms or more information about any of the investment options described here, please call the Fidelity Investment Trust Line on 0800 41 41 10 and talk to a Fidelity customer representative 9am to 6pm.
Alternatively, you may like to visit the Fidelity London Investor Centre at 25 Cannon Street, near St Pauls Cathedral.
You can also find out more by visiting fidelity.
co. uk or contacting your Financial Adviser.
The Fidelity Individual Savings Account ISA is offered and managed by Financial Administration Services Limited.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is managed by Fidelity Investments International.
Both companies are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is administered by Equiniti Limited and shares will be held in the name of Lloyds TSB Registrars Savings Nominees Limited.
The value of savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change in the future.
Fidelity investment trusts are managed by Fidelity Investments International.
Fidelity only gives information about its own products and services and does not provide investment advice based on individual circumstances.
Should you wish to seek advice, please contact a Financial Adviser.
Issued by Fidelity Investments International, authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
For the purposes of Sections 21 and 25 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, the content of this report has been approved by Fidelity Investments International.
Please note that the value of investments and the income from them may fall as well as rise and the investor may not get back the amount originally invested.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
For funds that invest in overseas markets, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the value of your investment.
Investing in small and emerging markets can be more volatile than other more developed markets.
Reference in this document to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities, but is included for the purposes of illustration only.
Investors should also note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may already have been acted upon by Fidelity.
Fidelity, Fidelity International and the Pyramid Logo are trademarks of FIL Limited.
CB33994 na Page 56 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2008 The printing inks used for this report are made from vegetable based oils and 95% of cleaning solvents are recycled for further use.
The electricity was all generated from renewable sources and on average 87% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
Printed using pureprint environmental print technology by a CarbonNeutral company, registered to the Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 and EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This document is printed on Revive 50:50, a paper containing 50% recovered fibre & 50% virgin fibre.
SGS-COC-0620 used are elemental chlorine free, manufactured at a mill with the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System.
The carbon emissions from this publication have been assessed and reduced with the remaining emissions offset in a carbon reduction project.
