Information Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the seventy-fourth Annual General Meeting of Electra Private Equity PLC will be held at 12.00 noon on Tuesday 3 February 2009 in The Great Hall at The Barber-Surgeons Hall, Monkwell Square off Wood Street, London EC2Y 5BL for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive and adopt the reports of the Directors and Auditors and the Group Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2008.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2008 which is set out in the Annual Report and Accounts of the Company for the year ended 30 September 2008.
To re-elect Mr RA Armstrong as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr JP Williams as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Sir Brian Williamson as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
To authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of the Auditors.
Special Business As Special Business, to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolution as a Special Resolution: 8.
Special resolution to renew share buyback authority.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the said Act of ordinary shares of 25 pence each, provided that: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 5,297,269 or such lesser number of shares as is equal to 14.99 per cent of the total number of ordinary shares in issue as at the date of the passing of this resolution: ii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 25 pence: iii the maximum price, exclusive of any expenses, which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share taken from and calculated by reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased: iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be made in the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per ordinary share as determined by the Directors : and v unless renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the earlier of 3 May 2010 or the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2010 save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase ordinary shares which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
By order of the Board of Directors PJ Dyke, Secretary, Paternoster House, 65 St Pauls Churchyard, London EC4M 8AB 4 December 2008 74 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Notes 1 Members of the Company who are entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote at the Meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
2 A Form of Proxy is enclosed.
To be effective, the Form of Proxy and any power of attorney under which it is executed or a duly certified copy of any such power must reach the Companys Registrars, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6GJ, not less than 48 hours before the time of the Meeting or adjourned Meeting or in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the Meeting or adjourned Meeting for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
Completion and return of the Form of Proxy will not prevent a member from attending and voting at the Meeting.
3 In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only those holders of ordinary shares entered on the Register of Members of the Company as at 6.00 pm on 1 February 2009 the Specified Time shall be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after the Specified Time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the Meeting.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the Specified Time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purposes of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purposes of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If, however, the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period, then to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at a time which is not more than 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
4 The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the Company in accordance with Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the member who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
5 Shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company.
On a vote by show of hands, every member and every duly appointed proxy who is present in person shall have one vote.
On a poll vote, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
6 In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the Meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the Meeting so that: i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the Meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the Meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
7 The following documents will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted from the date of this notice until the close of the Annual General Meeting, and will be available at the place of the Annual General Meeting from 11.45 am until the conclusion of the Meeting: a the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company: and b the terms and conditions of appointment of all Directors.
8 Short biographical details regarding Mr RA Armstrong, Mr JP Williams and Sir Brian Williamson are contained on page 70.
9 The total number of issued ordinary shares voting rights in the Company on 4 December 2008, which is the latest practicable date before the publication of this document, is 35,338,687.
If you have sold or otherwise transfered all your shares in Electra Private Equity PLC, you should pass this document and other relevant accompanying documents other than any personalised form of proxy to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale transfer was made for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
75 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Information Notice of Annual General Meeting
