Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting Item 1: Report and accounts The directors must present to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting the report of the directors and the accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2008.
The report of the directors, the accounts and the report of the Company's auditors on the accounts are contained within the annual report and accounts.
Item 2: Directors remuneration The directors are required to present the Report on directors remuneration, which sets out remuneration policy, to shareholders for approval under the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The Report on directors remuneration can be found on pages 30 to 38 of the report and accounts.
Items 3, 4 and 5: Re-appointment of directors The Company's Articles of Association require that at every Annual General Meeting one third of the directors who are subject to retirement by rotation shall retire from office.
Anthony John Warren and Neil Cooper will retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-appointment.
The Companys Articles of Association also require that any director appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting shall hold office only until the next following Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, Alastair David Lyons will offer himself for re-appointment.
The 2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance contains provisions dealing with the re-appointment of non-executive directors.
In relation to the re-appointment of John Anthony Warren as a non-executive director, the Chairman has confirmed following the formal performance evaluation conducted during 2008 that he continues to be effective in and demonstrate commitment to his role, including commitment of time for Board and committee meetings.
The Chairman has also confirmed that Alastair David Lyons has been effective in and demonstrated commitment to his role, including commitment of time for Board and Committee meetings, since his appointment on 1 October 2008.
Brief details of all the directors are to be found on page 20 of the report and accounts.
Items 6 and 7: Re-appointment of auditors and auditors remuneration The auditors of a company must be re-appointed at each general meeting at which accounts are presented.
Resolution 6 proposes the re-appointment of the Company's existing auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, for a further year.
Resolution 7 gives authority to the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Item 8: Authority to allot shares Resolution 8 renews the authority given to your directors at the last Annual General Meeting to allot relevant securities in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 20,145,626 and also gives the directors authority to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 40,291,252.50 by way of a rights issue, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of the resolution.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this authority at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
The amount of 20,145,626 represents less than 33.3% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 13 March 2009.
The amount of 40,291,252.50 represents less than 66.6% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue excluding treasury shares as at 13 March 2009.
The Company did not hold any shares in treasury as at 13 March 2009.
The Board has no specific plans to exercise this authority other than in connection with employee share schemes, and the operation of any scrip dividend offer and any scrip dividend mandate scheme.
It wishes to obtain the necessary authority from shareholders so that allotments can be made should it be desirable and should suitable market conditions arise at short notice and without the need to convene a general meeting of the Company which would be both costly and time consuming.
If the Board takes advantage of the additional authority to issue shares representing more than 33.3% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue or for a rights issue where the monetary proceeds exceed 33.3% of the Companys pre-issue market capitalisation, all members of the Board wishing to remain in office will stand for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting following the decision to make the relevant share issue.
Item 9: The Bovis Homes Group PLC 2009 Bonus Replacement Share Plan Introduction The Company proposes to establish the Bovis Homes Group PLC 2009 Bonus Replacement Share Plan the Plan.
The Plan is a bonus replacement share plan that is designed to encourage and reward participants for delivering business recovery that results in the creation of shareholder value.
To maintain fairness, the Remuneration Committee retains discretion over the vesting of awards, should the performance condition be met, to ensure that the contribution from management is properly reflected in the award, and that vesting is not influenced by favourable stock market movement and would have regard to such metrics as net assets per share, profitability and dividend affordability, in addition to the overall circumstances in which the performance condition is achieved.
The Plan is intended to be operated only in 2009 as a replacement for the existing cash bonus scheme and to include approximately 35 members of the senior management team including executive directors.
The Plan will be operated by the Remuneration Committee and will terminate on the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2010.
A consultation with major shareholders has been undertaken, which had a supportive outcome and provided helpful and positive feedback.
Eligibility and award procedure Any employee or executive director of a member of the Group will be eligible to participate in the Plan at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
A participant will be granted an award which will take the form of an option to acquire ordinary shares in the Company Shares for no payment.
Awards may be granted within 42 days after the date of the AGM at which the Plan is approved by shareholders: the announcement of the Companys results for any period: or the occurrence of any exceptional circumstances which the Remuneration Committee considers justifies the grant of awards.
No payment is required for the grant of awards.
No awards may be granted after the date of the Annual General Meeting in 2010.
As a pre-condition to being granted an award, participants will forfeit entitlement to be considered for a cash bonus for the year in which the award is made at least equal to the value of the award.
72 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
co. uk plc Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting continued Value of awards Award levels will be determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The maximum number of Shares over which an award may be granted to an employee in any financial year may not have a market value at the date of grant calculated by reference to the average middle market quotation of a Share derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange over a period of three consecutive months immediately preceding the date of grant exceeding 100% of the eligible employees basic salary.
Benefits received under the Plan are not pensionable and may not be transferred or assigned except on a participants death.
Performance conditions and vesting Awards are subject to a performance condition determined by the Remuneration Committee at the date of grant which will normally be tested over the three years starting with the date of grant the Performance Period.
Awards will normally be exercisable for a period of 6 months after the third anniversary of grant to the extent that the performance condition has been satisfied.
Awards granted in 2009 will be subject to a performance condition linked to an average share price target to be measured at the end of the Performance Period.
The average market value of a Share achieved over the 3 months immediately preceding the end of the Performance Period will determine the number of Shares which will vest and to which a participant will be entitled on exercise of his award.
The percentage of Shares over which awards granted in 2009 will vest will be calculated in accordance with the following table: Average Share Price Achieved Percentage of Shares in Award that Vest 7.00 100% 6.00 50% 5.50 25% Less than 5.50 nil The number of Shares that will vest will be calculated on a straightline basis for average share prices achieved between 5.50 and 7.00.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion as to the number of shares that may vest should performance conditions be met to ensure that the contribution from management is properly reflected.
On exercise a participant will be entitled to additional Shares equal to the value of dividends net of any tax credit that would have been paid on the vested Shares that can be acquired on exercise in the period from the date of grant to the third anniversary of grant assuming that those dividends had been reinvested in the Shares at the dividend payment date.
Cessation of Employment A participant will not generally be entitled to exercise an award if he leaves employment with the Group before the third anniversary of grant.
If he ceases employment by reason of death, injury, disability or ill health, redundancy, his or her employing company or business ceasing to be part of the Group or for any other reason at the Remuneration Committees discretion, he may retain his award which he may exercise after the third anniversary of the grant date to the extent that the performance condition as measured at the end of the normal performance period is satisfied as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The number of Shares that may be acquired will be scaled back on a time pro rated basis to reflect the time that has elapsed between the grant of the award and the date of leaving.
If a participant ceases to be an employee of the Group before the third anniversary of the grant of an award for any other reason, the award shall automatically lapse on such cessation.
Change of control In the event of a change of control of the Company, subject to the paragraph below, awards will vest and be exercisable to the extent that the performance condition as measured over the three months up to the change of control is satisfied.
The number of Shares that a participant may acquire will be reduced on a time pro rated basis to reflect the early vesting although the Remuneration Committee will retain the discretion to allow a greater number of Shares not exceeding the total number of Shares under an award to vest.
Alternatively participants may, with the agreement of an acquiring company, release their awards in consideration of the grant of an equivalent award relating to shares in the acquiring company or another company in the acquiring companys group.
The Remuneration Committee may at its discretion, in appropriate circumstances, determine that awards may not be exercised by virtue of a change of control but will automatically be exchanged for equivalent awards over shares in an acquiring company Awards will not be exercisable without the consent of the Remuneration Committee in the event of any internal reorganisation, the purpose and effect of which is to create a new holding company.
Equity dilution To the extent that new Shares are issued to satisfy awards under the Plan, the institutional investors guidelines on dilution of equity in connection with share schemes will apply.
The number of Shares which in any ten year period may be issued or become issuable pursuant to all of the Companys share schemes including the Plan is limited to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company from time to time: and the number that may be issued or become issuable pursuant to all of the discretionary share schemes operated by the Company including the Plan is limited to 5% of such issued share capital.
Adjustment of awards The Remuneration Committee may adjust the number of Shares subject to awards in the event of a variation in the share capital of the Company for example a rights or capitalisation issue, a sub-division, consolidation or reduction of share capital or the Company implements a transaction such as a demerger or payment of a special dividend that would affect the value of an award.
Bovis Homes Group PLC 73 Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting continued Rights attaching to Shares A participant will not have any voting or dividend rights in relation to Shares prior to the exercise of an award.
Any Shares allotted or transferred when an award is exercised will rank equally with all other ordinary shares in issue except for rights arising by reference to a record date before their allotment.
Application will be made for the Shares to be listed by the UK Listing Authority and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Amendments The Committee may amend the Plan provided that the prior approval of shareholders is obtained for any amendments to key features of the Plan which would be to the advantage of participants or eligible employees.
Key features of the Plan include eligibility, the limits on the number of Shares that may be issued under the Plan, the basis for determining a participants entitlement to Shares, the terms on which they can be acquired and the provisions relating to adjustments in the event of a variation in the Companys share capital.
Such approval will not be required for any minor alteration which is made to benefit the administration of the Plan, to take account of new or existing legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for the Company or eligible employees or participants.
Item 10: Memorandum of Association The provisions regulating the operations of the Company are currently set out in the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association.
The Companys Memorandum of Association contains, among other things, the objects clause which sets out the scope of the activities the Company is authorised to undertake.
This is drafted to give a wide scope.
"The Companies Act 2006 ""the 2006 Act"" significantly reduces the constitutional significance of a companys Memorandum of Association."
The 2006 Act provides that a Memorandum of Association will record only the names of subscribers and the number of shares each subscriber has agreed to take in the company.
Under the 2006 Act the objects clause and all other provisions which are currently contained in a companys Memorandum of Association, such as the authorised share capital of the Company, for existing companies at 1 October 2009, will be deemed to be contained in a companys Articles of Association but the company can remove these provisions by special resolution.
Further the 2006 Act states that unless a companys Articles of Association provide otherwise, a companys objects are unrestricted.
This abolishes the need for companies to have objects clauses.
For this reason the Company is proposing to remove its objects clause together with all other provisions of its Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of the 2006 Act, are to be treated as forming part of the Companys Articles of Association as of 1 October 2009.
This resolution confirms the removal of these provisions for the Company.
Item 11: Amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company These notes explain the differences between the current and the amended Articles of Association of the Company.
Following the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2008, the Company in conjunction with its legal advisers is continuing its review of the Articles of Association, in particular in relation to any further changes which are necessary or desirable following the full implementation of the 2006 Act and any additional changes which may be required pursuant to the implementation of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations currently expected in August 2009.
Any further proposed amendments will be put to shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
Authorised Share Capital The 2006 Act abolishes the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital and the amended Articles of Association reflect this.
The Company will still be limited as to the number of shares which it can at any time allot because allotment authority continues to be required under the 2006 Act, save in respect of employee share schemes.
Notice of General Meetings Certain provisions in the current Articles of Association dealing with the convening of general meetings and the length of notice required to convene general meetings are being removed in the amended Articles of Association because the relevant matters are provided for in the 2006 Act.
In particular, a general meeting to consider a special resolution can be convened on 14 days notice whereas previously 21 days notice was required.
Item 12: Notice of general meetings This resolution is required to reflect the proposed implementation in August 2009 of the Shareholder Rights Directive.
The regulation implementing this Directive will increase the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days.
If resolution 11 is passed, the Company will be able to call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days notice and would like to preserve this ability.
In order to be able to do so after August 2009, shareholders must have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Directive before it can call a general meeting on 14 days notice.
74 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
co. uk plc Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting continued Item 13: Disapplication of pre-emption rights Resolution 13 seeks to renew the authority given to your directors at the last Annual General Meeting to make limited allotments of ordinary shares for cash without application of the statutory pre-emption rights which require a company to offer all allotments of ordinary shares for cash proportionately to existing shareholders first pursuant to Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985.
This power would provide the directors with the flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders when opportunities arise, so that: i the Company can follow normal practices in the event of a rights issue: and ii ordinary shares may be issued wholly for cash other than proportionately to existing ordinary shareholders up to a maximum of 3,024,868.50 which represents 5% of the Company's total ordinary share capital in issue as at 13 March 2009.
In accordance with the recommendations of the Pre-Emption Group, the directors confirm their intention that no more than 7.5% of the issued share capital of the Company will be issued for cash on a non pre-emptive basis during any three year period.
There are presently no plans to allot ordinary shares wholly for cash other than in connection with employee share schemes.
Shares allotted under an employee share scheme are not subject to statutory pre-emption rights.
The authority sought by Resolution 13 will last until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of the resolution.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Item 14: Authority to purchase own shares In accordance with Article 45 the directors are seeking renewal of the authority granted at last years Annual General Meeting to enable the Company to make market purchases of up to 12,099,475 of its own shares representing approximately 10% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 13 March 2009.
Before exercising such authority, the directors would ensure that the Company was complying with the current relevant UK Listing Authority and ABI guidelines.
No purchases would be made unless the directors believe that the effect would be to increase the earnings per share of the remaining shareholders and the directors consider the purchases to be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Any shares so purchased would be cancelled.
The directors have no present intention of making such purchases but would like to have the flexibility to consider such purchases in the future.
Any purchase of ordinary shares would be by means of market purchases through the London Stock Exchange.
The maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share shall be the higher of: a an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Company agrees to buy the ordinary shares: and b an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System SETS.
The minimum price would be 50 pence being the nominal value of each ordinary share.
The authority will only be valid until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting in 2010.
As at 13 March 2009 there were options over 913,758 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company which represent 0.76% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares was exercised in full, these options would represent 0.84% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
The directors consider that all the resolutions to be put to the meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Your Board will be voting in favour of them and unanimously recommends that you do so as well.
