Notice of meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to any aspect of the proposals referred to in this document or as to the action you should take, you should seek your own advice from a stockbroker, solicitor, accountant, or other professional adviser.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares, please pass this document together with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
Notice of meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the 2009 Annual General Meeting of Bovis Homes Group PLC will be held at the New Connaught Rooms, 61-65 Great Queen Street, London WC2B 5DA on Thursday 7 May 2009 at 11.30am for the following purposes: Ordinary resolutions 1 To receive and adopt the audited accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2008 and the reports of the directors and auditors.
2 To approve the report on directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2008.
3 To re-appoint John Anthony Warren as a director of the Company, who retires by rotation.
4 To re-appoint Neil Cooper as a director of the Company, who retires by rotation.
5 To re-appoint Alastair David Lyons as a director of the Company, appointed by the Board of directors since the last Annual General Meeting.
6 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company.
7 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
8 That the Board be authorised to allot relevant securities as defined in the Companies Act 1985 the Act : A up to a nominal amount of 20,145,626: and B comprising equity securities as defined in the Act up to a nominal amount of 40,291,252.50 including within such limit any shares issued under A above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter, such authorities to expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2010 or fifteen months from the date of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but in each case so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements during the relevant period which would, or might, require relevant securities to be allotted after the authority ends and the Board may allot relevant securities under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not ended.
9 That the Bovis Homes Group PLC 2009 Bonus Replacement Share Plan, the main features of which are summarised in item 9 in the explanatory notes to this Notice and the rules of which are produced to the Meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification, be and is hereby approved and that the directors be and are hereby authorised to do all acts and things which they may consider necessary and expedient to carry the same into effect.
Special resolutions 10 That with effect from 00.01 am on 1 October 2009, the Companys Articles of Association be amended by deleting all the provisions in the Companys Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of section 28 of the Companies Act 2006, are to be treated as provisions of the Companys Articles of Association.
11 That the Articles of Association of the Company be amended with effect from the conclusion of the meeting by making the alterations marked on the print of the Articles of Association produced to the meeting marked A and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification.
12 That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
13 That if resolution 8 is passed, the Board be given power to allot equity securities as defined in the Act for cash under the authority given by that resolution and or where the allotment constitutes an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 94 3A of the Act, free of the restriction in section 89 1 of the Act, such power to be limited: A to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of equity securities but in the case of the authority granted under resolution 8 B, by way of a rights issue only to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and B in the case of the authority granted under resolution 8 A, to the allotment otherwise than under A above of equity securities up to a nominal amount of 3,024,868.50, such power to expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2010 or fifteen months from the date of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but during this period the Company may make offers, and enter into agreements, which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted after the power ends and the Board may allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not ended.
Bovis Homes Group PLC 69 Notice of meeting continued 14 That the Company be and is hereby granted general and unconditional authority, for the purposes of Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of the ordinary shares of 50 pence each in its capital PROVIDED THAT: i this authority shall be limited so that the number of ordinary shares of 50 pence each which may be acquired pursuant to this authority does not exceed an aggregate of 12,099,475 ordinary shares and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2010 except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares the contract for which was concluded before such time and which is executed wholly or partly after such time : ii the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share shall be the higher of: a an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Company agrees to buy the ordinary shares: and b the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 in each case exclusive of expenses : and iii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 50 pence in each case exclusive of expenses.
Bovis Homes Group PLC By Order of the Board The Manor House, North Ash Road M T D Palmer New Ash Green, Longfield Company Secretary Kent DA3 8HQ 2 April 2009 Notes: i Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company gives notice that only holders of ordinary shares entered on the register no later than 6.00pm on 5 May 2009 will be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
Changes to entries on the register after 6.00pm on 5 May 2009 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
ii A registered member of the Company may appoint one or more proxies in respect of some or all of their ordinary shares to exercise the members rights to attend, speak and vote at a meeting of the Company instead of the member.
A registered member appointing multiple proxies must ensure that each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attaching to different shares and must specify on the form of proxy the number of shares in relation to which that proxy is appointed.
Members or their duly appointed proxies are requested to bring proof of identity with them to the meeting in order to confirm their identity for security reasons.
iii The form of proxy must be executed by or on behalf of the member making the appointment.
A corporation may execute the form s of proxy either under its common seal or under the hand of a duly authorised officer, attorney or other authorised person.
A member may appoint more than one proxy to attend and vote on the same occasion.
iv A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
v In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that 1 if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and 2 if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in 1 above.
Corporate representatives who have been appointed to attend the meeting are asked to register with the staff of the Companys Registrar, Computershare, present at the meeting as early as possible prior to the beginning of the meeting in order to assist them with administration of the voting process set out above.
vi Participants of the Bovis Homes Group Share Incentive Plan may instruct the trustee to vote on their behalf on a poll.
vii The proxy form and the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of that power or authority must be received at the office of the Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY or received via the Computershare website, www-uk.
com full details of the procedures are given on the website not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
Completion of the proxy form will not preclude a member from attending and voting in person instead of his proxy or proxies.
The Company will announce the level of proxy votes for and against each resolution and the number of abstentions once the resolution has been voted on by a show of hands, except where a poll is called.
When announcing a decision on a poll, the Company will disclose the total number of votes in favour and against and the number of abstentions.
If a member returns paper and electronic proxy instructions, those received last by the Registrar before the latest time for receipt of proxies will take precedence.
Members are advised to read the website terms and conditions of use carefully.
70 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
co. uk plc Notice of meeting continued viii To appoint one or more proxies or to give an instruction to a proxy whether previously appointed or otherwise via the CREST system, CREST messages must be received by the issuers agent ID number 3RA50 not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp generated by the CREST system from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
After this time any change of instructions to a proxy appointed through CREST should be communicated to the proxy by other means.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST Members who have appointed voting service provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and system timings please refer to the CREST manual.
The Company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. ix CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST proxy instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
x Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may have a right, under an agreement between him and the member by whom he was nominated, to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraph ii above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by members of the Company.
xi As at 13 March 2009 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 120,994,753 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 13 March 2009 are 120,994,753. xii Except as provided above, members who wish to communicate with the Company in relation to the AGM should do so using the following means: 1 by writing to the Company Secretary at the registered office address: or 2 by writing to the Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY.
No other methods of communication will be accepted.
In particular you may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of meeting or in any related documents including the Chairmans Statement, the Annual Report 2008 and the Proxy Form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
xiii The following documents will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office, during normal business hours, on any weekday excluding public holidays from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and on that date they will be available for inspection at the place of the meeting from 11.00am until the conclusion of the meeting: a copies of the directors service contracts: b copies of the terms and conditions of appointment for each non-executive director: c the register of directors interests: d a copy of the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, together with a comparison document showing the changes proposed to be made to the Articles of Association pursuant to Resolution 11: and e The rules of the Bovis Homes Group PLC 2009 Bonus Replacement Share Plan.
xiv Data protection statement: Your personal data includes all data provided by you, or on your behalf, which relates to you as a shareholder, including your name and contact details, the votes you cast and your Reference Number attributed to you by the Company.
The Company determines the purposes for which and the manner in which your personal data is to be processed.
The Company and any third party to which it discloses the data including the Companys Registrar may process your personal data for the purposes of compiling and updating the Companys records, fulfilling its legal obligations and processing the shareholder rights you exercise.
