Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty-ninth Annual General 2 shall expire at the completion of the Annual General Meeting of F&C Asset Management plc will be held at JP Morgan Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010, save that Cazenove, 20 Moorgate, London EC2R on Thursday 7 May 2009 the Company may before such expiry make an offer or at 12 noon UK time for the following purposes: agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry: and Ordinary Business C for the purpose of this Resolution, Pre-Emptive Offer To be proposed as ordinary resolutions: means an offer of relevant securities to: 1.
To receive the Financial Statements and the Reports of the 1 holders of ordinary shares other than the Company Directors and the Independent Auditors for the year ended on a fixed record date in proportion to their respective 31 December 2008. holdings of such shares: and 2 other persons entitled to participate in such offer by 2.
To declare a final dividend of 4.0 pence per share on the virtue of the rights attaching to any other equity ordinary shares of the Company to be paid on 28 May 2009 to securities held by them: members whose name appears on the register of members at the close of business on 17 April 2009. in each case, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or 3.
To elect Trevor Matthews, who retires at the first Annual appropriate in relation to fractional entitlements, legal, General Meeting following his appointment, as a Director.
regulatory or practical problems under the laws or the 4.
To re-elect Keith Bedell-Pearce, who retires by rotation, as a requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange of Director.
To re-elect Alain Grisay, who retires by rotation, as a Director.
To be proposed as special resolutions: 6.
To re-elect Brian Larcombe, who retires by rotation, as a 11.
A subject to the passing of resolution 10 set out in this Notice the Section 80 Authority, the Directors be given 7.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year power to allot equity securities within the meaning of ended 31 December 2008. section 94 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act for 8.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company to cash, pursuant to the authorities given by the Section 80 hold office until the conclusion of the next General Meeting at Authority, and to sell treasury shares wholly for cash, as if which Financial Statements are laid before the Company and to section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
allotment or sale, provided that such power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities or the sale of Special Business treasury shares: To be proposed as ordinary resolutions: 1 in the case of paragraph A 1 of the Section 80 9.
To re-approve and renew the authorisation of the terms of the Authority, a in connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer Relationship Agreement between the Company and Friends as defined in the Section 80 Authority : or b in Provident plc dated 4 October 2004, such approval and renewal accordance with the terms of the Relationship to expire on the earlier of i the conclusion of the Annual General Agreement between the Company and Friends Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010 or ii Friends Provident plc dated 4 October 2004, provided that Providents interest in the ordinary shares of the Company falling resolution 9 relating to the re-approval and renewal of below 30 per cent.
such Relationship Agreement as set out in this Notice is passed: or c in order to satisfy options or awards 10.
THAT: under any share scheme for employees or share A pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the incentive plan approved by the Company in general Act, the Directors be generally and unconditionally meeting: authorised to allot: 2 in the case of paragraph A 2 of the Section 80 1 relevant securities within the meaning of section 80 of Authority, in connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer the Act up to a maximum nominal amount of undertaken by way of rights: and 164,730.35: and 3 otherwise, up to a maximum nominal amount of 2 relevant securities comprising equity securities within 24,807.145: and the meaning of section 94 of the Act up to a B the power given in this Resolution: maximum nominal amount when aggregated with any 1 shall be in substitution for all pre-existing authorities allotment made pursuant to paragraph A 1 of under section 95 of the Act: and 303,857.10 in connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer undertaken by way of rights: 2 shall expire at the same time as the Section 80 Authority, save that the Company may before such B the authorities given in this Resolution: expiry make an offer or agreement which would or 1 shall be in substitution for all pre-existing authorities to might require equity securities to be allotted after allot relevant securities: and such expiry.
THAT, in substitution for any existing power under section Notes i A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, but without prejudice appoint one or more proxies to attend and speak and vote on his her behalf.
to the exercise of any such power prior to the date hereof, the A member may appoint more than one proxy provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
A member may not Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share.
authorised, pursuant to and in accordance with section 166 of the A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of section ii A Form of Proxy for use by Ordinary Shareholders in connection with the meeting is enclosed with these Accounts.
To be valid, the Form of Proxy 163 3 of the Act of fully paid ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each should be completed and signed and sent or delivered, together with any in the capital of the Company ordinary shares in such terms power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or an extract from the Books of Council and Session or a notarially certified copy or and in such manner as the Directors of the Company may decide, a copy certified in accordance with the Powers of Attorney Act 1971 of such provided that: power or authority, in accordance with the instructions contained therein, so as to reach the Companys registrars, at the address stated thereon, not later i the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby than 12 noon UK time on 5 May 2009. iii The Company has made provision for shareholders who would like to lodge authorised to be purchased is 49,424,047 being their proxy electronically or through CREST.
Details of how to lodge a proxy approximately 10 per cent.
of the issued ordinary share capital electronically or through CREST are set out on page 41. of the Company excluding treasury shares as defined in iv Completing and returning a Form of Proxy will not prevent an Ordinary Shareholder from attending in person at the meeting referred to above and section 162A 3 of the Act as at 6 April 2009 : voting should he or she wish to do so.
v Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, ii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is the Company specifies that only those Ordinary Shareholders entered on the 0.1 pence exclusive of expenses : and register of members of the Company as at 6 p. m. UK time on 5 May 2009 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, on the register of members at iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid 6 p. m. UK time on the day falling two days before the date of any adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of number of Ordinary Shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the entries on the register of members after 6 p. m. UK time on 5 May 2009 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, on the register of members at 6 the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the p. m. UK time on the day falling two days before the date of any adjourned ordinary shares for the five business days immediately meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any provisions in any enactment, the preceding the date of purchase: articles of association of the Company or other instrument to the contrary.
vi If you are not a member of the Company but you have been nominated by a such authority to expire on the earlier of the date falling member of the Company to enjoy information rights, you do not have a right 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution and the to appoint a proxy.
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be vii If you are a person who has been nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights: held in 2010, unless previously revoked, varied or renewed by the You may have a right under an agreement between you and the member Company in general meeting, save that the Company may at any of the Company who has nominated you to have information rights time prior to the expiry of such authority enter into a contract or Relevant Member to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
contracts to purchase ordinary shares under such authority which If you either do not have such a right or if you have such a right but do not will or might be completed or executed wholly or partly after the wish to exercise it, you may have a right under an agreement between you expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary and the Relevant Member to give instructions to the Relevant Member as to the exercise of voting rights.
shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts.
viii In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that a if a corporate 13.
THAT the period of notice for calling a general meeting other shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate than an Annual General Meeting shall be not less than 14 clear representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at days provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting the annual general meeting of the Company to be held in 2010. directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and b if more By order of the Board than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate Secretary representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give 80 George Street voting instructions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate Edinburgh EH2 3BU shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes 6 April 2009 a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in a above.
ix As at 3 April 2009 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice the Company's issued share capital consisted of 494,240,472 ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each, carrying one vote each and 800,000 cumulative preference shares of 1 each, carrying no right to attend or vote at the meeting which is the subject of this notice.
Therefore, total voting rights in the Company as at 3 April 2009 are 494,240,472. x Copies of the following documents will be made available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and at the Companys head office during normal business hours on any week day Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the date of this notice until the close of the meeting, and at the place of the meeting from 15 minutes prior to and during the continuance of the meeting: the Executive Directors' service contracts and Non-executive Directors' letters of appointment.
the Relationship Agreement between the Company and Friends Provident plc dated 4 October 2004. xi A member may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of Annual General Meeting or any related documents to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those expressly stated.
173 Corporate Information Directors Stockbrokers Robert Jenkins, Chairman JPMorgan Cazenove 20 Moorgate Alain Grisay, Chief Executive London EC2R 6DA Dick fide Beus, Non-executive Keith Bedell-Pearce, Senior Independent Non-executive Citigroup Global Markets Limited Citigroup Centre Brian Larcombe, Non-executive Canada Square Canary Wharf David Logan, Chief Financial Officer London Nick MacAndrew, Non-executive E14 5LB Trevor Matthews, Non-executive Auditors Jeff Medlock, Non-executive KPMG Audit Plc Saltire Court Sir Adrian Montague, Non-executive 20 Castle Terrace Gerhard Roggemann, Non-executive Edinburgh Member of Remuneration Committee EH1 2EG Member of Audit & Compliance Committee Member of Nomination Committee Registrar and Transfer Office Equiniti Limited Head Office 34 South Gyle Crescent Exchange House South Gyle Business Park Primrose Street Edinburgh London EH12 9EB EC2A 2NY Telephone 020 7628 8000 Corporate information Facsimile 020 7628 8188 F&C Asset Management plc Email: enquiries@fandc.
com Registered in Scotland Company Registration Number 73508 Secretary and Registered Office W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA Website 80 George Street Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website www.
com Edinburgh EH2 3BU Telephone 0131 718 1000 Facsimile 0131 225 2375 Solicitors Norton Rose LLP 3 More London Riverside London SE1 2AQ Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP 1 Exchange Crescent Conference Square Edinburgh EH3 8UL Principal Bankers The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 142-144 Princes Street Edinburgh EH2 4EQ Expect excellence
