Accounting Policies Basis of preparation and statement of compliance These are the Consolidated Financial Statements of F&C Asset Management plc and its subsidiaries the Group which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union adopted IFRS and those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under adopted IFRS.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in millions of pounds Sterling, rounded to one decimal point, except where otherwise indicated.
The Group have early adopted the following standards and interpretations during 2008: IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
There was no significant impact from adoption of this interpretation in 2008.
Parent Company Financial Statements The parent Company has continued to present individual financial statements prepared on a UK GAAP basis as permitted by section 226 2 of, and Schedule 4 to, the Companies Act 1985, adopting the exemption of omitting the Profit and Loss Account and related notes conferred by section 230 of that Act.
The Parent Company Financial Statements, together with its respective accounting policies, are presented on pages 154 to 171.
Accounting estimates, assumptions and judgements The preparation of the Financial Statements necessitates the use of estimates, assumptions and judgements.
These estimates, assumptions and judgements affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, contingent assets and contingent liabilities at the balance sheet date as well as the reported income and expenses for the year.
While estimates are based on managements best knowledge and judgement using information and financial data available to them, the actual outcome may differ from these estimates.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies are disclosed, where appropriate, in the following notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements: a Impairment testing of intangible assets The projected revenue growth, projected operating cost growth and discount rates applied to cash flow projections as disclosed in note 13. b Pension assumptions The mortality assumptions, expected rates of return, discount rates, rates of salary increases and rate of inflation increases, as disclosed in note 27. c Minority interest put options The fair value of the F&C REIT minority interest put options is subject to uncertainties in respect of future performance and valuation of the F&C REIT Group.
Details of these put options are disclosed in notes 16 a and 30.
58 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Summary of significant accounting policies The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of the Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007. a Consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from their activities.
All subsidiaries follow accounting policies consistent with those of the Group and have coterminous reporting periods.
The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the assets, liabilities, results and cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the period are included in the consolidated results from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries not held by the Group and are presented separately in the Income Statement and within equity in the Balance Sheet, separately from parent shareholders equity.
ii Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control over the financial and operating policies.
Investments in associates are accounted for under the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill net of any impairment loss identified on acquisition.
Under the equity method of accounting, an investment is included as the cost of the investment plus the Groups share of post-acquisition changes in net assets after deducting any distributions received and any impairment loss recognised.
Goodwill relating to an associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not amortised but is subject to impairment where indicators of potential impairment exist.
The Groups share of post-tax profits or losses is presented as a single line item in the Income Statement.
The Groups associates follow accounting policies consistent with those of the Group and have coterminous reporting periods.
iii Business combinations A business combination is the bringing together of separate entities or businesses into one reporting entity.
The result is that one entity, the acquirer, obtains control of one or more entities or businesses.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
b Foreign currencies The Groups functional and presentation currency is pounds Sterling.
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured in that functional currency.
i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date, and any exchange differences arising are taken to the Income Statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities, other than intangible assets arising on the acquisition of foreign operations measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of transaction and are not subsequently restated.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities stated at fair value in a foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate at the date the fair value was determined.
When fair value movements in assets and liabilities are reflected in the Income Statement, the corresponding exchange movements are also recognised in the Income Statement.
Similarly, when fair value movements in assets and liabilities are reflected directly in equity, the corresponding exchange movements except any relating to available for sale monetary assets are also recognised directly in equity.
59 Accounting Policies ii Foreign operations The functional currency of foreign operations is predominantly the Euro.
The assets and liabilities of, or relating to, foreign operations are translated to Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to Sterling at foreign exchange rates approximating to the rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations into Sterling, including related intangible assets, are recognised directly in the Groups Foreign Currency Translation Reserve FCTR, which is a separate component of equity, and reported in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense SORIE.
These exchange differences are recognised as income or expenses in the period in which the foreign operations are disposed of.
c Revenue recognition Management fees, investment advisory fees and other revenue generated from the Groups asset management activities are recognised in the Income Statement over the period for which these investment management services are provided.
Initial fees received in advance, arising on OEIC contracts, are taken to the Balance Sheet and amortised over the period of the asset management service.
The Group enters into standard contractual terms for all investors.
Therefore, the period of provision of asset management services is estimated based upon the Groups experience of the average holding periods of OEIC investors.
The average holding period is reassessed on an annual basis.
The Group is entitled to earn performance fees from a number of clients if the actual investment performance of clients assets exceeds defined benchmarks by an agreed level of outperformance, generally in a set time period.
Most of the Groups performance fee arrangements are assessed on a calendar year basis.
Performance fees are recognised when the quantum of the fee can be estimated reliably, which is when the performance period ends, when this occurs on or before the reporting date, or where there is a period of less than six months remaining to the end of the performance period and there is evidence at the reporting date which suggests that the current performance will be sustainable.
d Leases All leases entered into by the Group are operating leases, being leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset.
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives are recognised by the Group as a reduction in the rental expense, allocated on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Accounting policy t Provisions discusses the recognition of provisions on onerous property leases when the leased space has ceased to be occupied by the Group.
e Fee and commission expenses Fee and commission expenses comprise two main elements costs associated with gaining new asset management contracts and subsequent commission paid to agents.
The costs associated with gaining OEIC contracts are deferred and amortised over the estimated term of the contracts in line with the treatment of the associated initial OEIC fees received, while the subsequent renewal commission paid to agents is expensed as the services are provided.
f Exceptionalincome andcosts Where the Group incurs significant non-recurring expenditure or earns significant non-recurring income in respect of items that arise outwith the Groups normal business activities and which are sufficiently material to warrant separate disclosure, then such items are separately or collectively recognised on the face of the Income Statement as exceptional items.
g Finance revenue Finance revenue comprises interest, dividends, expected return on pension assets and fair value adjustments through the Income Statement in respect of shareholder investments.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Interest income is recognised in the Income Statement on an effective interest rate basis as it accrues.
h Finance costs Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowing, interest on pension liabilities, amortisation of loan issue costs, unwinding of discount on provisions and dividends on Preference Shares.
Borrowing costs are recognised in the Income Statement on an effective interest rate basis.
60 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 i Income taxes The income tax expense or income disclosed on the face of the Income Statement represents the aggregate of current tax and the movement in deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the Income Statement for the period, except to the extent that it is attributable to a gain or loss that is recognised directly in equity.
In such cases the gain or loss shown in equity is stated separately from the attributable income tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable to the taxation authorities on the taxable profit for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and includes any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the Financial Statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable profit, accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised, except: where the deferred tax asset or liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither the accounting nor taxable profit or loss: or in respect of taxable or deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Any income tax expense or income in respect of taxable gains or losses attributable to policyholders falls to be borne by or to the benefit of the Groups unit-linked policyholders.
As a result, the Directors consider it appropriate to differentiate on the face of the Income Statement between tax attributable to policyholders and that attributable to shareholders.
j Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment is capitalised on initial recognition.
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised when it is probable that there will be future economic benefits associated with the expenditure which can be measured reliably.
All other expenditure is recognised in the Income Statement as an expense as incurred.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated so as to write off the cost of assets, using the straight-line method, over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Leasehold improvements over 10 years Motor vehicles over 3-4 years Office furniture & equipment over 3-5 years Computer equipment over 3-4 years Depreciation is recognised as an expense in the Income Statement.
The carrying value of assets and their useful lives are reviewed at each reporting date.
If an indication of impairment exists, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount and the impairment is charged to the Income Statement in the period in which it arises.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no further future economic benefits are expected from its use.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying value of the asset is included in the Income Statement in the year the asset is derecognised.
61 Accounting Policies k Intangible assets i Goodwill Goodwill arising from a business combination is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Business combinations arising after 1 July 2002 are accounted for under IFRS 3 Business Combinations using the purchase method.
Where the initial amount of goodwill can only be determined on a provisional basis at the end of the financial reporting period, adjustments are made to the amount of goodwill up to 12 months from the date of acquisition.
Other adjustments to goodwill are made for amounts that are contingent on future events and on the realisation of potential benefits of the acquirees tax loss carry forwards and other deferred tax assets that did not satisfy the criteria for separate recognition on acquisition.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
ii Investment management contracts Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of management contracts are finite and such contracts are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or average contractual term, with amortisation being charged to the Income Statement.
The amortisation period is reviewed at each financial year-end.
Details of estimated useful lives are shown in note 13. iii Software and licences Separately purchased intangible assets have a finite life and are shown at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the Income Statement in equal annual instalments, based on the following useful economic lives: Software 3 years Licences over the contractual term 3-5 years Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is expensed as incurred.
l Impairment of intangible assets At each reporting date the Group assesses whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use, and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
Any impairment arising is recognised in the Income Statement.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to a cash-generating unit, or group of cash-generating units, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Each unit or group of units to which the goodwill is so allocated represents the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Except for any goodwill impairments, which cannot be reversed, an assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
In such a case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Such reversal is recognised in the Income Statement.
After such a reversal, the amortisation or depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
62 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 m Financial instruments Financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value, plus directly attributable transaction costs, in the case of investments not at fair value through profit or loss.
The fair value of instruments that are actively traded in organised financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid prices mid price for Open Ended Investment Companies at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
For investments where there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
Such techniques include using recent arms length market transactions: reference to the current market value of another instrument which is substantially the same: discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models.
Financial instruments are classified into the categories described below: i Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss include investments that are held for trading purposes or that have been specifically designated as at fair value through profit or loss'.
They are carried in the Balance Sheet at fair value and movements in fair value are taken to the Income Statement in the period in which they arise.
The following assets and liabilities are classified as financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss: Current assets: Financial investments Stock of units and shares Current liabilities:.
Investment contract liabilities The Group has adopted the Fair Value Option in IAS 39, which enables the liabilities in respect of the Groups unitlinked investment contracts to be matched to the fair value of the related assets which are solely attributable to the investment contract policyholders, thus reflecting the contractual entitlement of the policyholders.
Differences in fair values are taken to the Income Statement.
ii Available for sale financial assets are also carried at fair value in the Balance Sheet.
In respect of unquoted instruments, or where the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value is established by using recognised valuation methodologies, in accordance with International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines, issued by the British Venture Capital Association.
Where insufficient information exists to produce a valuation then the price of recent investments is used.
For unquoted investments in early stage enterprises and enterprises with revenues but without significant profits or significant positive cash flows, fair value is determined using the Price of a Recent Investment method.
Repayments are treated as reductions to carrying value.
After an appropriate period, an assessment is made as to whether the circumstances of the investment have changed such that another valuation methodology is appropriate, and whether there is any evidence of deterioration or strong defensible evidence of an increase in value.
In the absence of these indicators, fair value is determined to be that reported at the previous balance sheet date.
Unquoted investments with revenues, maintainable profits and or maintainable cash flows are valued by deriving an Enterprise Value of the underlying business.
Movements in fair value, other than impairment losses and foreign exchange movements on monetary assets, are taken to the fair value reserve in equity until derecognition of the asset, at which time the cumulative amount in this reserve is recognised in the Income Statement.
The following assets are classified as available for sale: Non-current assets: Financial investments iii Loans and receivables are measured on initial recognition at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the Income Statement when loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
The following assets are classified as loans and receivables: Non-current assets: Other receivables Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents Trade and other receivables 63 Accounting Policies iv The minority interest put options and forward currency contracts are recognised at fair value through profit or loss, classified as other financial liabilities.
The remaining financial liabilities are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method after initial recognition.
The following liabilities are classified as financial liabilities: Non-current liabilities: Interest bearing loans and borrowings Other payables Current liabilities: Trade and other payables Expenses in respect of raising capital on interest bearing loans and borrowings are amortised over the term of the loan on an effective interest rate basis.
These expenses are offset against the loan amount.
The Group has adopted trade date accounting for purchases or sales of financial assets under a contract whose terms require delivery of the asset within the time frame established in the marketplace concerned.
Accordingly, such financial instruments are recognised on the date the Group commits to the purchase of the investments, and are derecognised on the date it commits to their sale.
Minority interest put options The minority interest put options, over equity in majority owned subsidiaries, are recognised at fair value at the balance sheet date.
Upon initial recognition the fair value of the put option is debited to equity.
Subsequent movements to the fair value are reflected in the Income Statement.
Fair value is the amount at which a derivative could be exchanged in a transaction at the balance sheet date between willing parties.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset, is derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired.
Financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective yield.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the Income Statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Available for sale financial assets If an available for sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the Income Statement, is transferred from equity to the Income Statement.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available for sale are not recognised in the Income Statement.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments are taken through the Income Statement if the increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the Income Statement.
n Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets acquired with the intention to subsequently dispose of them through sale are classified as held for sale and measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Assets are only considered to be classified as held for sale if: i the carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use: ii management is committed to the sale within one year of acquisition: 64 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 iii the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition: iv the asset is marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value.
Upon sale, pre-tax gains or losses on such assets are recognised in the Income Statement as investment income.
o Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term, highly liquid investments in money market instruments with original maturity dates of three months or less.
p Investment contracts The Group sells unit-linked pension investment contracts through its insurance subsidiary, F&C Managed Pension Funds Limited MPF.
These unit-linked contracts involve both the transfer of a financial instrument and the provision of investment management services.
The financial instrument component is classified as a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss.
The financial liability is measured using a valuation technique based on the carrying value of the assets and liabilities that are held to back the contract, adjusted to take account of the effect on the liabilities of discounting for the time value of tax payments on assets sold in the fund.
Unit-linked policyholder assets held by MPF and related policyholder liabilities are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value taken to profit or loss.
Amounts received from and paid to investors under these contracts are accounted for as deposits received or paid and therefore not recorded in the Income Statement.
At the balance sheet date the value of these contracts is stated at an amount equal to the fair value of the net assets held to match the contractual obligations.
q Insurance contract liabilities Insurance contract liabilities are measured in accordance with actuarial principles and guidance.
Any change in the value of the liability is taken to Movements in fair value of unit-linked liabilities in the Income Statement.
Where these liabilities are reinsured, the element of the risk reinsured is valued on the same basis as the related liability and is included as an asset in the Balance Sheet.
Changes in the value of the asset are taken to the Income Statement.
Amounts recoverable under reinsurance contracts are assessed for impairment at each balance sheet date.
r Employee benefits i Short-term employee benefits Short-term employee benefits are recognised as an undiscounted expense and liability when the employee has rendered services during an accounting period.
Short-term compensated absences are recognised, in the case of accumulating compensated absences, when the employees render service that increases their entitlement to future compensated absences or, in the case of non-accumulating compensated absences, when the absences occur.
ii Profit-sharing and bonus payments These are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation to make such payments as a result of past events and a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made.
iii Pension obligations Defined benefit schemes The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension arrangements.
These schemes provide benefits based on final pensionable salary.
The assets of the funded schemes are held in separate trustee administered funds.
The pension liability recognised in the Balance Sheet is the present obligation of the employer, which is the estimated present value of future benefits that employees have earned in return for their services in the current and prior years, less the value of the plan assets in the schemes.
The discount rate applied to the employees benefits is the appropriate AA corporate bond yield at the balance sheet date.
A qualified actuary performs the calculation annually using the projected unit credit method.
The pension costs of the schemes in the Income Statement are analysed into: Current service cost, which is the actuarially calculated present value of the benefits earned by the active employees in each period: Past service costs, which relate to employee service in prior periods, and arise as a result of the introduction of, or improvement to, retirement benefits in the current period.
These are recognised in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the period in which the increase in benefits vest: 65 Accounting Policies Settlements or curtailments are recognised in the Income Statement to the extent that they are not allowed for in the actuarial assumptions.
Losses on settlements or curtailments are measured at the date on which the employer becomes demonstrably committed to the transaction.
Gains on settlements or curtailments are measured at the date on which all parties, whose consent is required, are irrevocably committed: and The expected return on pension assets is recognised within Finance revenue' and the interest on scheme obligations is recognised in Finance costs'.
The actuarial gains and losses, which arise from any new valuation and from updating the previous actuarial valuation to reflect conditions at the balance sheet date, are taken in full to the SORIE for the period.
Defined contribution schemes Contributions made to these schemes are charged to the Income Statement as they become payable in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
iv Other long-term employee benefits Other long-term employee benefits are recognised at the discounted present value of the obligation at the balance sheet date.
The benefit is determined using actuarial techniques to estimate the amount of benefit employees have earned for their services at the balance sheet date.
v Termination benefits Termination benefits are recognised as a liability and an expense when the Group is committed to the termination of employment before the normal retirement date.
A commitment to such termination benefits arises when the Group has initiated detailed plans which cannot realistically be withdrawn.
s Share-based payments The Group operates a number of share scheme arrangements which require to be accounted for as share-based payments.
All grants of shares, share options or other share-based instruments that were granted after 7 November 2002 have been recognised as an expense.
The fair values of share-based payment awards are measured using a valuation model applicable to the terms of the awards Black Scholes, Binomial or Monte Carlo simulation.
The fair value is measured by an independent external valuer at the date the award is granted and the expense is spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to exercise the awards, known as the vesting period.
The cumulative expense recognised in the Income Statement is equal to the estimated fair value of the award multiplied by the number of awards expected to vest.
Vesting of awards typically depends upon meeting defined performance criteria such as continued Company service requirements, underlying earnings per share EPS targets and or share price return targets.
The fair value of share-based payment awards, where it is not considered possible to reliably estimate the fair value of these awards at the grant date, have been determined by measurement of the equity instruments at intrinsic value.
The intrinsic value is spread over the vesting period.
Vesting of equity-settled employee share awards depends upon meeting market and or non-market related performance conditions.
The type of vesting criteria affects the calculation of the expense charged to the Income Statement and subsequent adjustments, as follows: i Non-market related conditions are performance criteria not directly linked to Company share price targets, such as EPS targets and or Company service requirements.
The probability of meeting non-market conditions is incorporated into the expense charge via the estimate of the number of awards expected to vest.
The total cumulative expense is ultimately adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards which vest.
Therefore, if no awards vest, no cumulative expense charge is ultimately recognised.
ii Market related conditions are performance criteria linked to Company share price targets.
The probability of meeting market conditions is incorporated into the calculation of the fair value of the award.
Should the market-based performance condition not ultimately be met, no true up down adjustment is made to reflect this.
Therefore, an expense charge is made whether market-based awards ultimately vest or not.
IFRS 2 Share-based Payment makes a distinction between awards settled in equity and those settled in cash.
Equity-settled awards are charged to the Income Statement with a corresponding credit to equity.
Cash-settled awards are charged to the Income Statement with a corresponding credit to liabilities.
The estimated fair value of cash-settled awards is re-measured at each reporting date until the payments are ultimately settled.
66 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Awards to employees treated as good leavers vest immediately and the remaining full expense of the awards is charged to the Income Statement at that time.
Good leavers include retirees and involuntary redundancies.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of EPS.
t Provisions A provision is recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
No provision is established where a reliable estimate of the obligation cannot be made.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
Where the Group has obligations under property leases and where the space has ceased to be used for the purposes of the business, full provision is made for future net outstanding liabilities under such leases after taking into account the effect of any expected sub-letting arrangements.
u Share capital When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial liability of the Company or Group is presented as a liability in the Balance Sheet, measured initially at fair value, net of transaction costs and thereafter at amortised cost until extinguished on conversion or redemption.
The remainder of the issue proceeds is allocated to the equity component and included in shareholders equity, net of transaction costs.
Preference Share capital The Group's issued Preference Share capital is classified as a liability.
It is carried at amortised cost in the Balance Sheet.
Preference dividends are recognised on an accruals basis in the Income Statement as an interest expense.
Ordinary Share capital When Ordinary Shares are repurchased, the amounts of consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, are recognised in the own share reserve included within retained earnings and are classified as deductions in equity.
The Companys dealings in its own shares are reflected through equity.
Dividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised on the date of payment, or if subject to approval, the date approved by the shareholders.
v Accounting for Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs The Group has several EBTs which own shares in the Company to enable it to satisfy certain future exercises of share-based awards.
The EBTs are consolidated into the Groups results, with these shares included within retained earnings at cost.
Consideration received for such shares is also recognised in retained earnings.
No gain or loss is recognised in the performance statements on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
67 Accounting Policies w New standards and interpretations not applied The International Accounting Standards Board has issued the following standards, relevant to the Group, which have not yet been applied and have an effective date after the date of these Financial Statements: Effective Date International Accounting Standards IAS IFRS Endorsed and available for early adoption: IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009 IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Comprehensive revision including a statement of comprehensive income.
1 January 2009 IAS 32 Financial Instruments Presentation Disclosure of puttable financial instruments.
1 January 2009 IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Amendments relating to vesting conditions and cancellations.
1 January 2009 IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Capitalisation of borrowing costs attributable to the development of intangible assets.
1 January 2009 IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly-Controlled Entity or Associate.
23 January 2009 Not yet endorsed: IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Consequential amendments arising from changes to IFRS 3.
1 January 2010 IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Amendments resulting from Annual Improvements to IFRS.
1 January 2009 IFRS 3 Business Combinations Comprehensive revision on applying the acquisition method.
1 July 2009 The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards will materially impact the Groups financial results in the period of initial application although there will be revised presentations to the primary financial statements and additional disclosures.
No material impact on the Group is expected to arise from any other standards which are available for early adoption.
Any future business combinations will be affected by the revisions to IFRS3.
The Group intends to adopt the standards in the reporting period when they become effective.
