BP Annual Review 2008 Re ning and Marketing 2008 was a year of sustained recovery and renewal for Re ning and Marketing.
We continued our major focus on safe, reliable operations and saw the first signi cant bene ts of having key re neries back in full operation.
We simpli ed the business structure and geographical footprint, which led to signi cant cost improvement and greater effectiveness in the marketing businesses.
Highlights Re ning availability six percentage points higher.
Full capacity restored at Texas City and Whiting re neries.
Missing revenues restored, pro ts improved.
Six integrated fuels value chains established.
Simpli ed and focused marketing footprint.
The role of BPs Re ning and Marketing business is to manufacture and supply more ef cient products and services to our customers.
Our purpose is as follows: We are the product and service-led arm of BP, focused on fuels, lubricants, petrochemicals products and related services.
We aim to be excellent in the markets we choose to be in those that allow BP to serve the major energy markets of the world.
We are in pursuit of competitive returns and enduring growth, as we serve customers and promote BP and our brands.
Our products represent quality based on safe and reliable manufacturing operations and technology.
Our organization comprises fuels value chains and international businesses.
As the markets for our main fuels products are regional, we integrate our re ning, logistics, marketing, supply and trading businesses into an integrated fuels value chain in each key region.
This model enables us to create greater value from our re neries, terminals, pipelines and retail sites.
Texas City R&M in more detail bp.
com whatwedo We have made fundamental improvements to our safety processes and to reliability at our Texas City re nery, where full economic capability was restored by the end of the year.
21 Achieving safe and reliable operations BP Annual Review 2008 Safety, both process and personal, remains our top Re ning and Marketing priority.
In addition to the global implementation of the OMS, in our US re neries we continue to implement the recommendations from the BP US Re neries Independent Safety Review Panel.
We have worked closely with the independent expert, L Duane Wilson.
Our international businesses include lubricants, petrochemicals, aviation and marine fuels and lique ed The number of major incidents associated with integrity management has reduced by 90% since 2005.
Each of these businesses is competitively advantaged in its chosen markets.
Such advantage is also reduced the number of oil spills by 60% and the recordable injury rate by more than 57% since 1999. derived from several factors, including the proximity of manufacturing and logistics assets to the market, Regrettably, in 2008 there were four workforce fatalities associated with our operations, one of which was a the quality of our physical assets, operational and supply chain ef ciency, technology advantage and the process safety incident.
During 2008 we also started migrating to the Restoring and improving earnings momentum In 2008 we saw the first substantial bene ts of new BP OMS, with an increased focus on process safety and continuous improvement.
At the end of the our operational improvements.
The Whiting re nery was restored to its full clean fuel capability of year two of our petrochemicals plants in US and two of our re neries in Europe were operating under 360,000 barrels per day b d in March 2008.
Texas City was also restored to full economic capability by the end the OMS.
In total, our 17 re neries worldwide, including those partially owned, achieved throughputs of Our financial performance in 2008 Our 2008 replacement cost pro t before interest and 2,155,000b d on average, a 5% increase on 2007 after adjusting for net loss of throughput from tax was $4.2 billion, which compares with $2.6 billion in 2007.
We achieved a strong performance despite previous disposals and acquisitions.
The performance of the Texas City re nery market conditions particularly lower re ning margins in the US, adverse foreign exchange effects and the was impacted by Hurricane Ike in September, which meant we had to shut down the re nery in advance as adverse impact of prior-month pricing of domestic pipeline barrels for our US re ning system which a precautionary measure, along with other re neries in the area.
A terri c response from employees helped impacted our results signi cantly.
This demonstrates the bene ts of the fundamental improvements we are to minimize disruption, with crude processing restored in seven days and full operations restored within three making across the business, including the measures we have taken to restore the availability of our re ning weeks.
This is also a re ection of the improvements we have made to our assets at Texas City during the system, reduce costs and simplify the organization.
We are working to close the performance past few years.
gap with our competitors by 2010.
Our goals to achieve this are: Delivering sustainable competitive returns and cash ows Achieving safe and reliable operations.
Restoring and improving earnings momentum.
Maximizing our value through integration and simpli cation in our fuels value chains Delivering sustainable competitive returns and cash ows.
In 2008 we fully integrated our re ning, logistics, marketing, supply and trading businesses, establishing six re ning-to-marketing integrated fuels value chain businesses focused on re ning and selling ground transportation fuels in each region.
These integrated businesses have strong links to our convenience retail Re ning throughput activities and a clear view of local market dynamics, the competitive landscape and BPs capabilities in the region, helping us to make effective business decisions.
2.2 This has enabled us to simplify internal interfaces, optimize margins, reduce overhead costs and drive continuous improvement.
million During the year we continued the implementation barrels per day of our ampm convenience retail franchise model in the US, which we expect to provide reliable long-term sales growth for our re nery systems, together with improved supply and trading performance, reduced costs and lower levels of capital investment.
In Europe we are one of the largest forecourt convenience retailers, In 2008 we increased with about 2,500 shops in 10 countries.
We are growing our re ning throughput our food-on-the-go and fresh grocery services through by 28,000 barrels per BP-owned brands and partnerships with leading retailers day on average.
Simplifying our businesses and pursuing growth opportunities in our international businesses Our international businesses leverage our strong market positions, proprietary technology and leading brands to 22 deliver distinctive performance.
Iain Conn Chief Executive, Re ning and Marketing Through the commitment of our employees, we have made good progress on safety, restored missing revenues and become leaner, tter and more competitive.
Re ning availability % 08 89 07 83 Re ning availability measures the readiness of our re neries to re ne crude oil into fuels.
Higher availability means we can capture margins effectively.
After Ike When we heard Hurricane Ike was integrity management and rebuilding on its way, we had to shut our Texas since 2005.
Three weeks after the City re nery, leaving just 60 of shutdown, we had more units 6,000 employees and contractors running than before Ike appeared on site to manage the facility while a tremendous performance.
Our sheltering in a hurricane-resistant humanitarian support to the affected building.
Despite losing all steam, areas was acknowledged as having power and water, and having to made a signi cant contribution to repair damage to several units, helping local communities get back the team supported by returning to normal.
Castrol gains a sporting edge employees restored operations In 2008 Castrol launched Edge Sport and in doing so and restarted crude oil processing rede ned performance in the synthetics category.
within seven days and restored The new product is tested to beat benchmark full operations within three weeks.
synthetic oils in extremes and is targeted towards The speed of the recovery is demanding automotive enthusiasts who only want the best for their cars.
Also during the year Castrol testament to the skill and followed its successful sponsorship of UEFA Euro commitment of employees at 2008 by signing up to sponsor the 2010 and 2014 Texas City, and it underlines the FIFA World Cup competitions, extending its links value of our investment in training, with football to a global level.
It is the biggest sponsorship in BPs 100-year history.
Fighting back against Ike See issue 4 of BP Magazine at bp.
com bpmagazine 23 Our lubricants business manufactures and markets BP Annual Review 2008 lubricants products and related services directly to Re ning and Marketing customers and end-consumers in around 50 countries.
In 2008 we focused on enhancing our customer relationships and brand distinctiveness, together with driving simpli cation and ef ciency.
In South America, for example, we simpli ed our footprint by using carefully Up and running with OMS selected national distributors.
This has enabled us to maintain a strong brand presence in these markets while investing more time and capital in our core markets.
2008 was a tough year for the aviation industry but, in Air BP, we simpli ed our footprint by exiting non-core countries, leading to a reduction in working capital and improved returns on operating capital employed.
During 2008 the environment in which our petrochemicals businesses operate became more challenging as deterioration in the global economic environment led to a reduced demand for our products.
This market downturn af rms the importance of leading technology and lowest cost of manufacture.
In this regard, our new Zhuhai 2 PTA unit in China, which was fully commissioned during the first quarter of 2008, is the largest single PTA-manufacturing plant in the world.
It achieves the highest energy ef ciency and smallest environmental footprint in its sector, producing 65% fewer CO emissions than conventional facilities.
2 In 2009 our Nanjing joint-venture acetic acid plant is expected to start up.
This deepens our strategic relationship with Sinopec in the important growth market of China.
Optimizing our organization and repositioning our cost ef ciency We are simplifying the structure of our organization and improving the ef ciency of our back of ce, including customer service, accounting services and procurement systems.
These activities will be centralized in a few global centres to remove duplication and reduce cost.
In Europe, for example, we are running 80 business service centres and our objective is to move to one.
We are also reducing our headcount, including the number of senior management positions.
BPs Cooper River chemical plant in South Carolina, US, was the first to go live with our Looking ahead new OMS a milestone achievement on safety In 2009 the overall economic environment is expected to be challenging with continued reduced and reliability.
demand for our products leading to lower annual volumes and pressure on margins.
The impact is BPs OMS delivers safe and reliable This is a clear sign of the change expected to be greatest in the petrochemicals sector.
When fully implemented, under way within our Re ning and Against this background we intend to continue it will govern how every BP project, Marketing business and elsewhere actively managing our cost base, simplifying our site, operation and facility operates.
It demonstrates our commitment It consolidates BP requirements to drive consistency, continuous marketing footprint and developing the market positions relating to process safety: improvement and, ultimately, to set where we have competitive advantage based on brand environmental performance: legal the standards for operating excellence and technology strengths.
We intend to focus on cash compliance in operations: personal, in our sector.
The Cooper River team generation through active management of our working marine and driving safety: and ISO is sharing its experience about the 14001.
It also embraces the BP successful transition to the OMS capital and credit exposures.
US Re neries Independent Safety across BP.
We intend to limit our capital investment to Review Panels recommendations.
maintaining and improving our core positions.
To continue It is built on the twin foundations the progress we have made in recent years, our top priority of risk management and continuous improvement.
In 2008 our Cooper for spending will remain safety and operational integrity.
River chemical plant in the US The other area of focus will be delivering integrated became the first site to be up value in our key markets through investment in terminals and running with the OMS.
Our largest investment is expected to be at the Whiting re nery, where we have started a major upgrading and modernization programme that will enable the re nery to operate on Canadian heavy crude oil.
We also intend to complete the planned projects in petrochemicals.
24 Joined-up thinking Our integrated fuels value chains are highly integrated regional businesses comprising re ning, logistics, marketing, supply and trading of ground transportation fuels, with strong links to our convenience retail activities.
They are concentrated in six geographies and together represent about 80% of our operating capital employed.
Our regional business based in the Rhine region, Germany, exempli es the bene ts of integration.
Through this, we now plan all key decisions affecting operations in seven European countries.
So if an investment is needed in our Rotterdam terminal, we can look at the implications for facilities across the continent, and spot opportunities to optimize expenditure and improve systems.
The bene ts are already coming through faster and better decision-making, lower costs and innovative thinking.
Flying high Air BP provides the fuels, lubricants and essential services airlines need to keep their planes ying.
In 2008 we were behind two notable rsts 6 we were voted number one for Six locations customer service in the leading of our integrated annual airline survey and we provided fuels value technical advice to Virgin Airways on chains its first aviation biofuel test ight.
We also provided the default lubricant Essential ingredient used in the oil system on the Boeing 787 Dreamliner and were the first BP is the worlds largest producer supplier to fuel the A380 in the US of acetic acid a vital but largely est Coast es and Middle East, demonstrating unfamiliar raw material.
It is used in that we are the partner of choice everything from medicine and food to the airline industry.
At the same to paint, textiles, washing powder time, 2008 was a challenging year and packaging.
Youll even nd it in for airlines, and Air BP moved quickly jars of pickled onions.
Our five acetic to simplify its footprint and improve acid production plants including cost ef ciency.
joint ventures, and the Sterling, US, chemical plant, are busy meeting growing global demand and, in 2009, we expect to commission a new plant and a major expansion in Nanjing, China.
Our leadership position extends beyond manufacturing and marketing to technology.
Methanol carbonylationbased plants account for around 80% Sou ut thern t t of all acetic acid production: we have Afri riica ic developed this process further to create our patented acetic acid manufacturing process, Cativa, which is used within all our acetic acid units.
Compared A Australia ustralia a and with traditional methanol production New Zeal ala and processes, Cativa reduces steam and water consumption and, per tonne of product, emissions by up to 30% an outstanding ef ciency improvement in the manufacturing of this essential ingredient.
25 Developing the energy of the future 26
