BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes on financial statements Interests in joint ventures 1.
Significant accounting policies A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties venturers undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Authorization of financial statements and statement of compliance Joint control exists only when the strategic financial and operating with International Financial Reporting Standards decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of the The consolidated financial statements of the BP group for the year ended venturers.
A jointly controlled entity is a joint venture that involves the 31 December 2008 were authorized for issue by the board of directors establishment of a company, partnership or other entity to engage in on 24 February 2009 and the balance sheet was signed on the boards economic activity that the group jointly controls with its fellow venturers.
behalf by P D Sutherland and Dr A B Hayward.
BP p. l. c. is a public limited The results, assets and liabilities of a jointly controlled entity are company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Under the equity method, the investment in a jointly The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance controlled entity is carried in the balance sheet at cost, plus postwith International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the acquisition changes in the groups share of net assets of the jointly International Accounting Standards Board IASB, IFRS as adopted by the controlled entity, less distributions received and less any impairment in European Union EU and in accordance with the provisions of the value of the investment.
Loans advanced to jointly controlled entities are Companies Act 1985.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain also included in the investment on the group balance sheet.
The group respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB, however, the differences income statement reflects the groups share of the results after tax of have no impact on the groups consolidated financial statements for the jointly controlled entity.
The group statement of recognized income the years presented.
The significant accounting policies of the group and expense reflects the groups share of any income and expense are set out below.
recognized by the jointly controlled entity outside profit and loss.
Financial statements of jointly controlled entities are prepared for Basis of preparation the same reporting year as the group.
Where necessary, adjustments are The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance made to those financial statements to bring the accounting policies used with IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations into line with those of the group.
Committee IFRIC interpretations issued and effective for the year ended Unrealized gains on transactions between the group and its 31 December 2008, or issued and early adopted.
jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the groups Standards and interpretations adopted in the year had no interest in the jointly controlled entities.
Unrealized losses are also significant impact on the financial statements.
eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment Subsequent to releasing our preliminary announcement of the of the asset transferred.
fourth quarter 2008 results on 3 February 2009, an adjustment has been The group assesses investments in jointly controlled entities made to correct for a $560 million overstatement of the deferred tax for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate liability in the balance sheet as at 31 December 2008 with a that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication corresponding adjustment to the foreign currency translation reserve in of impairment exists, the carrying amount of the investment is equity.
There was no impact on profit for the year.
compared with its recoverable amount, being the higher of its fair value The accounting policies that follow have been consistently applied less costs to sell and value in use.
Where the carrying amount exceeds to all years presented.
the recoverable amount, the investment is written down to its The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars recoverable amount.
and all values are rounded to the nearest million dollars $ million, except The group ceases to use the equity method of accounting on the where otherwise indicated.
date from which it no longer has joint control or significant influence over For further information regarding the key judgements and the joint venture, or when the interest becomes held for sale.
estimates made by management in applying the groups accounting Certain of the groups activities, particularly in the Exploration and policies, refer to Critical accounting policies on pages 61 to 63, which Production segment, are conducted through joint ventures where the forms part of these financial statements.
venturers have a direct ownership interest in and jointly control the assets of the venture.
The income, expenses, assets and liabilities of Basis of consolidation these jointly controlled assets are included in the consolidated financial The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements statements in proportion to the groups interest.
of BP p. l. c. and the entities it controls its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 December each year.
Control comprises the power to govern the Interests in associates financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit An associate is an entity over which the group is in a position to exercise from its activities and is achieved through direct and indirect ownership significant influence through participation in the financial and operating of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting policy decisions of the investee, but that is not a subsidiary or a jointly rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
Subsidiaries are consolidated controlled entity.
from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the group The results, assets and liabilities of an associate are incorporated obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting control ceases.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for as described above for jointly controlled entities.
the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealized profits arising from intragroup transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Unrealized losses are eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the group.
