BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Consolidated financial statements of the BP group Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the consolidated financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year that present fairly the financial position of the group and the financial performance and cash flows of the group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandabl e information.
Provide additional disclosure when compliance with the specific requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable users to unders tand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the groups financial position and financial performance.
State that the company has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial sta tements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The groups business activities, performance, position and risks are set out in this report.
The financial position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are detailed in Liquidity and capital resources on pages 58 to 60 and elsewhere in the notes on financial statements.
The report also includes details of the groups risk mitigation and management.
The group has considerable financial resources, and the directors believe that the group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985 of which the groups auditors are unaware, and the directors have taken all the steps they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the groups auditors are aware of that information.
The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: The consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Boar d, IFRS as adopted by the European Union and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the group: and The management report, which is incorporated in the directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performan ce of the business and the position of the group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties.
