BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Additional information for shareholders Dividends BP has paid dividends on its ordinary shares in each year since 1917.
In choose to declare dividends in any currency provided that a sterling 2000 and thereafter, dividends were, and are expected to continue to be, equivalent is announced, but it is not the companys intention to paid quarterly in March, June, September and December.
Former Amoco change its current policy of announcing dividends on ordinary shares Corporation and Atlantic Richfield Company shareholders will not be able in US dollars.
to receive dividends, or proxy material, until they send in their Amoco The following table shows dividends announced and paid by the Corporation or Atlantic Richfield Company common shares for exchange.
company per ADS for each of the past five years.
In the case of dividends BP currently announces dividends for ordinary shares in US paid before 1 May 2004, the dividends shown are before the deemed dollars and states an equivalent pounds sterling dividend.
Dividends on credit allowed to shareholders resident in the US under the former BP ordinary shares will be paid in pounds sterling and on BP ADSs in US income tax convention between the US and the UK and the associated dollars.
The rate of exchange used to determine the sterling amount withholding tax in respect thereof equal to the amount of such credit.
equivalent is the average of the forward exchange rate in London over the This deemed credit and associated withholding tax do not apply to five business days prior to the announcement date.
The directors may dividends paid after 30 April 2004 to shareholders resident in the US.
This plan is not available to any person resident in the US or Canada or in any jurisdiction outside the UK where such an offer requires compliance by the company with any governmental or regulatory procedures or any similar formalities.
A dividend reinvestment plan is, however, available for holders of ADSs through JPMorgan Chase Bank.
Future dividends will be dependent on future earnings, the financial condition of the group, the Risk factors set out on pages 12-14 and other matters that may affect the business of the group set out in Financial and operating performance on page 50 and in Liquidity and capital resources on page 58.
Legal proceedings Save as disclosed in the following paragraphs, no member of the group is Private complaints, including class actions, have also been filed against a party to, and no property of a member of the group is subject to, any BP Products alleging propane price manipulation.
The complaints contain pending legal proceedings that are significant to the group.
allegations similar to those in the CFTC action as well as of violations of BP America Inc. BP America continues to be subject to oversight federal and state antitrust and unfair competition laws and state by an independent monitor, who has authority to investigate and report consumer protection statutes and unjust enrichment.
The complaints alleged violations of the US Commodity Exchange Act or US Commodity seek actual and punitive damages and injunctive relief.
Settlement with Futures Trading Commission CFTC regulations and to recommend one group of the class actions has received preliminary approval from the corrective action.
The appointment of the independent monitor was a court and final approval is expected in 2009. condition of the deferred prosecution agreement DPA entered into with On 23 March 2005, an explosion and fire occurred in the the US Department of Justice DOJ on 25 October 2007 relating to isomerization unit of BP Products Texas City refinery as the unit was allegations that BP America manipulated the price of February 2004 TET coming out of planned maintenance.
Fifteen workers died in the incident physical propane and attempted to manipulate the price of TET propane and many others were injured.
BP Products has resolved all civil claims in April 2003 and the companion consent order with the CFTC, entered arising from the incident, except for a small number of claims that remain the same day, resolving all criminal and civil enforcement matters on appeal following dismissal in the trial court.
pending at that time concerning propane trading by BP Products North In March 2007, the US Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation America Inc. BP Products.
The DPA requires BP Americas and certain of Board CSB issued its final report on the incident.
The report contained its affiliates continued co-operation with the US government recommendations to the Texas City refinery and to the board of the investigations of the trades in question, as well as other trading matters company.
In May 2007, BP responded to the CSBs recommendations.
The DPA has a term of three years but can be extended BP and the CSB continue to discuss BPs responses with the objective of by two additional one-year periods, and contemplates dismissal of all the CSB agreeing to close-out its recommendations.
charges at the end of the term following the DOJs determination that BP America has complied with the terms of the DPA.
Investigations into BPs trading activities continue to be conducted from time to time.
