BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Miscellaneous terms In this document, unless the context Joint control MW otherwise requires, the following terms Joint control is the contractually agreed Megawatt.
shall have the meaning set out below.
sharing of control over an economic NGLs ADR activity, and exists only when the Natural gas liquids.
strategic financial and operating decisions relating to the activity require OPEC ADS the unanimous consent of the parties Organization of Petroleum Exporting American depositary share.
AGM Joint venture Ordinary shares Annual general meeting.
A contractual arrangement whereby Ordinary fully paid shares in BP p. l. c. of Amoco two or more parties undertake an 25c each.
The former Amoco Corporation economic activity that is subject to Pence or p and its subsidiaries.
Atlantic Richfield Jointly controlled asset Pound, sterling or Atlantic Richfield Company A joint venture where the venturers The pound sterling.
jointly control, and often have a direct ownership interest in the assets of the Preference shares Associate venture.
The assets are used to obtain Cumulative First Preference Shares and An entity, including an unincorporated benefits for the venturers.
Each Cumulative Second Preference Shares entity such as a partnership, over which venturer may take a share of the output in BP p. l. c. of 1 each.
the group has significant influence and from the assets and each bears an that is neither a subsidiary nor a joint PSA agreed share of the expenses incurred.
Significant influence is the Production-sharing agreement.
power to participate in the financial and Jointly controlled entity SEC operating policy decisions of an entity A joint venture that involves the The United States Securities and but is not control or joint control over establishment of a corporation, Exchange Commission.
partnership or other entity in which each venturer has an interest.
A Subsidiary Barrel contractual arrangement between the An entity that is controlled by the BP 42 US gallons.
venturers establishes joint control over group.
Control is the power to govern b d the economic activity of the entity.
the financial and operating policies of barrels per day.
an entity so as to obtain the benefits Liquids from its activities.
boe Crude oil, condensate and natural barrels of oil equivalent.
BP, BP group or the group LNG BP p. l. c. and its subsidiaries.
UK United Kingdom of Great Britain and Burmah Castrol London Stock Exchange or LSE Northern Ireland.
Burmah Castrol PLC and its London Stock Exchange plc.
US LPG United States of America.
Cent or c Liquefied petroleum gas.
One-hundredth of the US dollar.
mb d The company thousand barrels per day.
BP p. l. c. mboe d Dollar or $ thousand barrels of oil equivalent The US dollar.
million barrels of oil equivalent.
Hydrocarbons mmcf Crude oil and natural gas.
IFRS mmcf d International Financial Reporting million cubic feet per day.
MTBE Methyl tertiary butyl ether.
