BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes on financial statements Interests in joint ventures 1.
Significant accounting policies A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties venturers undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Authorization of financial statements and statement of compliance Joint control exists only when the strategic financial and operating with International Financial Reporting Standards decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of the The consolidated financial statements of the BP group for the year ended venturers.
A jointly controlled entity is a joint venture that involves the 31 December 2008 were authorized for issue by the board of directors establishment of a company, partnership or other entity to engage in on 24 February 2009 and the balance sheet was signed on the boards economic activity that the group jointly controls with its fellow venturers.
behalf by P D Sutherland and Dr A B Hayward.
BP p. l. c. is a public limited The results, assets and liabilities of a jointly controlled entity are company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Under the equity method, the investment in a jointly The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance controlled entity is carried in the balance sheet at cost, plus postwith International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the acquisition changes in the groups share of net assets of the jointly International Accounting Standards Board IASB, IFRS as adopted by the controlled entity, less distributions received and less any impairment in European Union EU and in accordance with the provisions of the value of the investment.
Loans advanced to jointly controlled entities are Companies Act 1985.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain also included in the investment on the group balance sheet.
The group respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB, however, the differences income statement reflects the groups share of the results after tax of have no impact on the groups consolidated financial statements for the jointly controlled entity.
The group statement of recognized income the years presented.
The significant accounting policies of the group and expense reflects the groups share of any income and expense are set out below.
recognized by the jointly controlled entity outside profit and loss.
Financial statements of jointly controlled entities are prepared for Basis of preparation the same reporting year as the group.
Where necessary, adjustments are The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance made to those financial statements to bring the accounting policies used with IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations into line with those of the group.
Committee IFRIC interpretations issued and effective for the year ended Unrealized gains on transactions between the group and its 31 December 2008, or issued and early adopted.
jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the groups Standards and interpretations adopted in the year had no interest in the jointly controlled entities.
Unrealized losses are also significant impact on the financial statements.
eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment Subsequent to releasing our preliminary announcement of the of the asset transferred.
fourth quarter 2008 results on 3 February 2009, an adjustment has been The group assesses investments in jointly controlled entities made to correct for a $560 million overstatement of the deferred tax for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate liability in the balance sheet as at 31 December 2008 with a that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication corresponding adjustment to the foreign currency translation reserve in of impairment exists, the carrying amount of the investment is equity.
There was no impact on profit for the year.
compared with its recoverable amount, being the higher of its fair value The accounting policies that follow have been consistently applied less costs to sell and value in use.
Where the carrying amount exceeds to all years presented.
the recoverable amount, the investment is written down to its The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars recoverable amount.
and all values are rounded to the nearest million dollars $ million, except The group ceases to use the equity method of accounting on the where otherwise indicated.
date from which it no longer has joint control or significant influence over For further information regarding the key judgements and the joint venture, or when the interest becomes held for sale.
estimates made by management in applying the groups accounting Certain of the groups activities, particularly in the Exploration and policies, refer to Critical accounting policies on pages 61 to 63, which Production segment, are conducted through joint ventures where the forms part of these financial statements.
venturers have a direct ownership interest in and jointly control the assets of the venture.
The income, expenses, assets and liabilities of Basis of consolidation these jointly controlled assets are included in the consolidated financial The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements statements in proportion to the groups interest.
of BP p. l. c. and the entities it controls its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 December each year.
Control comprises the power to govern the Interests in associates financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit An associate is an entity over which the group is in a position to exercise from its activities and is achieved through direct and indirect ownership significant influence through participation in the financial and operating of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting policy decisions of the investee, but that is not a subsidiary or a jointly rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
Subsidiaries are consolidated controlled entity.
from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the group The results, assets and liabilities of an associate are incorporated obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting control ceases.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for as described above for jointly controlled entities.
the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealized profits arising from intragroup transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Unrealized losses are eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the group.
108 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes on financial statements Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of 1.
Significant accounting policies continued the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
Where the Foreign currency translation recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying Functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment amount, an impairment loss is recognized.
in which an entity operates and is normally the currency in which the Goodwill arising on business combinations prior to 1 January entity primarily generates and expends cash.
2003 is stated at the previous carrying amount under UK generally In individual companies, transactions in foreign currencies are accepted accounting practice.
initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the rate of Goodwill may also arise upon investments in jointly controlled exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and entities and associates, being the surplus of the cost of investment liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into the over the groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets.
Such functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet goodwill is recorded within investments in jointly controlled entities date.
Any resulting exchange differences are included in the income and associates, and any impairment of the goodwill is included within statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at the earnings from jointly controlled entities and associates.
historical cost and denominated in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the rates of exchange as at the dates of the Non-current assets held for sale initial transactions.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale value in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less using the rate of exchange at the date the fair value was determined.
In the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held of non-US dollar functional currency subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale and associates, including related goodwill, are translated into US dollars at transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The results and cash as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal flows of non-US dollar functional currency subsidiaries, jointly controlled group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
entities and associates are translated into US dollars using average rates Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected of exchange.
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the and the profits for the year retained by non-US dollar functional currency date of classification.
subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates are translated into Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets once US dollars are taken to a separate component of equity and reported in classified as held for sale are not depreciated.
the statement of recognized income and expense.
Exchange gains and losses arising on long-term intragroup foreign currency borrowings used Intangible assets to finance the groups non-US dollar investments are also taken to equity.
Intangible assets, other than goodwill, include expenditure on the On disposal of a non-US dollar functional currency subsidiary, jointly exploration for and evaluation of oil and natural gas resources, computer controlled entity or associate, the deferred cumulative amount recognized software, patents, licences and trademarks and are stated at the amount in equity relating to that particular non-US dollar operation is recognized in initially recognized, less accumulated amortization and accumulated the income statement.
Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried Business combinations and goodwill initially at cost.
The initial cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method of value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the cash paid and asset acquired as part of a business combination is measured at fair the fair value of other assets given, equity instruments issued and value at the date of acquisition and is recognized separately from liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal attributable to the acquisition.
The acquired identifiable assets, liabilities rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
and contingent liabilities are measured at their fair values at the date of Intangible assets with a finite life are amortized on a straight-line acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the net fair value basis over their expected useful lives.
For patents, licences and of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is trademarks, expected useful life is the shorter of the duration of the legal recognized as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below agreement and economic useful life, which can range from three to 15 the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on years.
Computer software costs have a useful life of three to five years.
acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of The expected useful lives of assets are reviewed on an acquisition.
Where the group does not acquire 100% ownership of annual basis and, if necessary, changes in useful lives are accounted the acquired company, the interest of minority shareholders is stated at for prospectively.
the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment recognized.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value shareholders in excess of the minority interest on the group balance may not be recoverable.
sheet are allocated against the interests of the parent.
At the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to each of the cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combinations synergies.
For this purpose, cash-generating units are set at one level below a business segment.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
109 Financial statements BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes on financial statements Exchanges of assets are measured at fair value unless the exchange 1.
Significant accounting policies continued transaction lacks commercial substance or the fair value of neither the Oil and natural gas exploration and development expenditure asset received nor the asset given up is reliably measurable.
The cost Oil and natural gas exploration and development expenditure is of the acquired asset is measured at the fair value of the asset given up, accounted for using the successful efforts method of accounting.
unless the fair value of the asset received is more clearly evident.
Where fair value is not used, the cost of the acquired asset is measured at the Licence and property acquisition costs carrying amount of the asset given up.
The gain or loss on derecognition Exploration licence and leasehold property acquisition costs are of the asset given up is recognized in profit or loss.
capitalized within intangible assets and are reviewed at each reporting Expenditure on major maintenance refits or repairs comprises the date to confirm that there is no indication that the carrying amount cost of replacement assets or parts of assets, inspection costs and exceeds the recoverable amount.
This review includes confirming that overhaul costs.
Where an asset or part of an asset that was separately exploration drilling is still under way or firmly planned or that it has been depreciated is replaced and it is probable that future economic benefits determined, or work is under way to determine, that the discovery is associated with the item will flow to the group, the expenditure is economically viable based on a range of technical and commercial capitalized and the carrying amount of the replaced asset is considerations and sufficient progress is being made on establishing derecognized.
Inspection costs associated with major maintenance development plans and timing.
If no future activity is planned, the programmes are capitalized and amortized over the period to the next remaining balance of the licence and property acquisition costs is written inspection.
Overhaul costs for major maintenance programmes are off.
Lower value licences are pooled and amortized on a straight-line expensed as incurred.
All other maintenance costs are expensed basis over the estimated period of exploration.
Upon recognition of as incurred.
proved reserves and internal approval for development, the relevant Oil and natural gas properties, including related pipelines, are expenditure is transferred to property, plant and equipment.
The cost of producing wells is amortized over proved developed reserves.
Licence acquisition, Exploration expenditure field development and future decommissioning costs are amortized over Geological and geophysical exploration costs are charged against income total proved reserves.
The unit-of-production rate for the amortization of as incurred.
Costs directly associated with an exploration well are initially field development costs takes into account expenditures incurred to date, capitalized as an intangible asset until the drilling of the well is complete together with approved future development expenditure required to and the results have been evaluated.
These costs include employee develop reserves.
remuneration, materials and fuel used, rig costs, delay rentals and Other property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straightpayments made to contractors.
If hydrocarbons are not found, the line basis over its expected useful life.
exploration expenditure is written off as a dry hole.
If hydrocarbons are The useful lives of the groups other property, plant and found and, subject to further appraisal activity, which may include the equipment are as follows: drilling of further wells exploration or exploratory-type stratigraphic test wells, are likely to be capable of commercial development, the costs Land improvements 15 to 25 years continue to be carried as an asset.
All such carried costs are subject to Buildings 20 to 50 years technical, commercial and management review at least once a year to Refineries 20 to 30 years confirm the continued intent to develop or otherwise extract value from Petrochemicals plants 20 to 30 years the discovery.
When this is no longer the case, the costs are written off.
Pipelines 10 to 50 years When proved reserves of oil and natural gas are determined and Service stations 15 years development is sanctioned, the relevant expenditure is transferred to Office equipment 3 to 7 years property, plant and equipment.
Fixtures and fittings 5 to 15 years Development expenditure The expected useful lives of property, plant and equipment are reviewed Expenditure on the construction, installation or completion of on an annual basis and, if necessary, changes in useful lives are infrastructure facilities such as platforms, pipelines and the drilling of accounted for prospectively.
development wells, including unsuccessful development or delineation The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed wells, is capitalized within property, plant and equipment and is for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate depreciated from the commencement of production as described below the carrying value may not be recoverable.
in the accounting policy for Property, plant and equipment.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from Property, plant and equipment the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, less accumulated of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
proceeds and the carrying amount of the item is included in the income The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchase price or statement in the period the item is derecognized.
construction cost, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into operation, the initial estimate of any decommissioning obligation, if any, and, for qualifying assets, borrowing costs.
The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
The capitalized value of a finance lease is also included within property, plant and equipment.
110 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes on financial statements Available-for-sale financial assets 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets Impairment of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment that are not classified as loans and receivables.
After initial recognition, The group assesses assets or groups of assets for impairment whenever available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value, with gains or events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an losses recognized as a separate component of equity until the asset may not be recoverable, for example, low prices or margins for an investment is derecognized or impaired.
extended period or for oil and gas assets significant downward revisions The fair value of quoted investments is determined by reference of estimated volumes or increases in estimated future development to bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
If any such indication of impairment exists, the group makes there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation an estimate of its recoverable amount.
Individual assets are grouped for techniques.
Where fair value cannot be reliably measured, assets are impairment assessment purposes at the lowest level at which there are carried at cost.
identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets.
An asset groups recoverable amount is the Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Where the Derivatives, other than those designated as effective hedging carrying amount of an asset group exceeds its recoverable amount, the instruments, are classified as held for trading and are included in this asset group is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable category.
These assets are carried on the balance sheet at fair value with amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are gains or losses recognized in the income statement.
adjusted for the risks specific to the asset group and are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge market assessments of the time value of money.
Such derivatives are carried on the balance sheet at fair value.
The An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluation is described there is any indication that previously recognized impairment losses may below in the accounting policy for Derivative financial instruments and no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the hedging activities.
A previously recognized impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to Impairment of financial assets determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial was recognized.
If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of Loans and receivables depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognized for the asset in If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and prior years.
Such reversal is recognized in profit or loss.
After such a receivables carried at amortized cost has been incurred, the amount reversal, the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced, with the amount of the loss recognized in profit Financial assets or loss.
Financial assets are classified as loans and receivables: available-for-sale financial assets: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: or as Available-for-sale financial assets derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as If an available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, the cumulative appropriate.
Financial assets include cash and cash equivalents, trade gain or loss previously recognized in equity is transferred to the receivables, other receivables, loans, other investments, and derivative income statement.
The group determines the classification of its If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on an financial assets at initial recognition.
Financial assets are recognized unquoted equity instrument that is carried at cost has been incurred, initially at fair value, normally being the transaction price plus, in the case the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash attributable transaction costs.
flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on financial asset.
their classification, as follows: Inventories Loans and receivables Inventories, other than inventory held for trading purposes, are stated Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or at the lower of cost and net realizable value.
Cost is determined by the determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Such first-in first-out method and comprises direct purchase costs, cost of assets are carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method if production, transportation and manufacturing expenses.
Net realizable the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognized in value is determined by reference to prices existing at the balance income when the loans and receivables are derecognized or impaired, as sheet date.
well as through the amortization process.
This category of financial Inventories held for trading purposes are stated at fair value assets includes trade and other receivables.
less costs to sell and any changes in net realizable value are recognized in the income statement.
Supplies are valued at cost to the group mainly using the average method or net realizable value, whichever is the lower.
111 Financial statements BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes on financial statements Contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in 1.
Significant accounting policies continued cash or another financial instrument, or by exchanging financial Financial liabilities instruments, as if the contracts were financial instruments, with the Financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through exception of contracts that were entered into and continue to be held profit or loss: derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a non-financial item in effective hedge: or as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost, as accordance with the groups expected purchase, sale or usage appropriate.
Financial liabilities include trade and other payables, accruals, requirements, are accounted for as financial instruments.
finance debt and derivative financial instruments.
The group determines Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
The derivatives that are not designated as effective hedging instruments measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, are recognized in the income statement.
as follows: For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: Fair value hedges when hedging exposure to changes in the fair value Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss of a recognized asset or liability.
Derivatives, other than those designated as effective hedgingCash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows instruments, are classified as held for trading and are included in that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a this category.
These liabilities are carried on the balance sheet at fair recognized asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
value with gains or losses recognized in the income statement.
Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
At the inception of a hedge relationship the group formally designates Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge and documents the hedge relationship for which the group wishes to Such derivatives are carried on the balance sheet at fair value, the claim hedge accounting, together with the risk management objective treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluation are described and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The documentation includes below in the accounting policy for Derivative financial instruments identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, and hedging activities.
the nature of the risk being hedged, and how the entity will assess the hedging instrument effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged All other financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value.
Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective in interest-bearing loans and borrowings this is the fair value of the achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows.
proceeds received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
Hedges meeting the criteria for hedge accounting are accounted After initial recognition, other financial liabilities are subsequently for as follows: measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method.
Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, Fair value hedges and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses arising on The change in fair value of a hedging derivative is recognized in profit or the repurchase, settlement or cancellation of liabilities are recognized loss.
The change in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the respectively in interest and other revenues and finance costs.
risk being hedged is recorded as part of the carrying value of the hedged This category of financial liabilities includes trade and other item and is also recognized in profit or loss.
The group applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging fixed interest rate risk on borrowings.
The gain or loss relating to the effective Leases portion of the interest rate swap is recognized in the income statement Finance leases, which transfer to the group substantially all the risks and within finance costs, offsetting the amortization of the interest on the benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalized at the underlying borrowings.
commencement of the lease term at the fair value of the leased property If the criteria for hedge accounting are no longer met, or if the or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Finance group revokes the designation, the adjustment to the carrying amount charges are allocated to each period so as to achieve a constant rate of of a hedged item for which the effective interest rate method is used interest on the remaining balance of the liability and are charged directly is amortized to profit or loss over the period to maturity.
Capitalized leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of Cash flow hedges the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense in hedging instrument is recognized directly in equity, while the ineffective the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
portion is recognized in profit or loss.
Amounts taken to equity are For both finance and operating leases, contingent rents are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects recognized in the income statement in the period in which they profit or loss.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest are incurred.
rate swaps hedging variable rate borrowings is recognized in the income statement within finance costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or The group uses derivative financial instruments to manage certain liability, such as a forecast transaction for the purchase of property, plant exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest and equipment, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial rates and commodity prices as well as for trading purposes.
Such carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
derivative financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as is revoked, amounts previously recognized in equity remain in equity until assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair the forecast transaction occurs and are transferred to the income value is negative.
statement or to the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset or liability as above.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognized in equity are transferred to profit or loss.
112 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes on financial statements Environmental expenditures and liabilities 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Environmental expenditures that relate to current or future revenues are Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation expensed or capitalized as appropriate.
Expenditures that relate to an For hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, the effective existing condition caused by past operations and do not contribute to portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognized current or future earnings are expensed.
directly in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognized in profit or Liabilities for environmental costs are recognized when a clean-up loss.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement is probable and the associated costs can be reliably estimated.
Generally, when the foreign operation is sold or partially disposed.
the timing of recognition of these provisions coincides with the commitment to a formal plan of action or, if earlier, on divestment or on Embedded derivatives closure of inactive sites.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host The amount recognized is the best estimate of the expenditure contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and required.
Where the liability will not be settled for a number of years, characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract.
the amount recognized is the present value of the estimated Contracts are assessed for embedded derivatives when the group future expenditure.
becomes a party to them, including at the date of a business combination.
Embedded derivatives are measured at fair value at Employee benefits each balance sheet date.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in Wages, salaries, bonuses, social security contributions, paid annual leave fair value are taken directly to profit or loss.
and sick leave are accrued in the period in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the group.
Deferred bonus arrangements Provisions and contingencies that have a vesting date more than 12 months after the period end are Provisions are recognized when the group has a present obligation legal valued on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of amortized on a straight-line basis over the service period until the award resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the vests.
The accounting policy for pensions and other post-retirement obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the benefits is described below.
Where appropriate, the future cash flow estimates are adjusted to reflect risks specific to the liability.
Share-based payments If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are Equity-settled transactions determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of reference to the fair value at the date at which equity instruments are money.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to granted and is recognized as an expense over the vesting period, which the passage of time is recognized within finance costs.
ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled A contingent liability is disclosed where the existence of an to the award.
Fair value is determined by using an appropriate valuation obligation will only be confirmed by future events or where the amount model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any of the obligation cannot be measured reliably.
Contingent assets are vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares not recognized, but are disclosed where an inflow of economic of the company market conditions.
No expense is recognized for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, Decommissioning which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market Liabilities for decommissioning costs are recognized when the group has condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions an obligation to dismantle and remove a facility or an item of plant and to are satisfied.
restore the site on which it is located, and when a reliable estimate of that At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative liability can be made.
Where an obligation exists for a new facility, such as expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting oil and natural gas production or transportation facilities, this will be on period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement construction or installation.
An obligation for decommissioning may also or otherwise of non-market conditions and the number of equity crystallize during the period of operation of a facility through a change in instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument legislation or through a decision to terminate operations.
The amount subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
recognized is the present value of the estimated future expenditure The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet determined in accordance with local conditions and requirements.
date is recognized in the income statement, with a corresponding entry A corresponding item of property, plant and equipment of an in equity.
amount equivalent to the provision is also created.
This is subsequently Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a depreciated as part of the asset.
new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the Other than the unwinding discount on the provision, any change cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognized over in the present value of the estimated expenditure is reflected as an the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognized over adjustment to the provision and the corresponding item of property, the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of plant and equipment.
any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification.
No reduction is recognized if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any cost not yet recognized in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
113 Financial statements BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes on financial statements Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable temporary 1.
Significant accounting policies continued differences: Cash-settled transactionsExcept where the deferred tax liability arises on goodwill that is not The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured at fair value and tax deductible or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a recognized as an expense over the vesting period, with a corresponding transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the liability recognized on the balance sheet.
transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefitsIn respect of taxable temporary differences associated with The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit except where the group is able to control the timing of the reversal of method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period the temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
to determine the present value of the defined benefit obligation.
Deferred tax assets are recognized for all deductible temporary Past service costs are recognized immediately when the company differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to becomes committed to a change in pension plan design.
When a the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against settlement eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued or which the deductible temporary differences and the carry-forward of a curtailment reducing future obligations as a result of a material unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilized: reduction in the scheme membership or a reduction in futureExcept where the deferred income tax asset relating to the entitlement occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination or loss is recognized in the income statement during the period in which and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting the settlement or curtailment occurs.
profit nor taxable profit or loss.
The interest element of the defined benefit cost represents theIn respect of deductible temporary differences associated with change in present value of scheme obligations resulting from the investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, passage of time, and is determined by applying the discount rate to the deferred tax assets are only recognized to the extent that it is opening present value of the benefit obligation, taking into account probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the material changes in the obligation during the year.
The expected return on foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year which the temporary differences can be utilized.
of long-term market returns on scheme assets, adjusted for the effect on The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance the fair value of plan assets of contributions received and benefits paid sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that during the year.
The difference between the expected return on plan sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred assets and the interest cost is recognized in the income statement as income tax asset to be utilized.
other finance income or expense.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates Actuarial gains and losses are recognized in full in the group that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realized or the statement of recognized income and expense in the period in which liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been they occur.
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The defined benefit pension plan surplus or deficit in the balance Tax relating to items recognized directly in equity is recognized in sheet comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the equity and not in the income statement.
defined benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds, less the fair value of plan assets out of which the Customs duties and sales taxes obligations are to be settled directly.
Fair value is based on market price Revenues, expenses and assets are recognized net of the amount of information and, in the case of quoted securities, is the published customs duties or sales tax except: bid price.
Where the customs duty or sales tax incurred on a purchase of Contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognized in goods and services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, the income statement in the period in which they become payable.
in which case the customs duty or sales tax is recognized as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense Corporate taxes item as applicable.
Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable andReceivables and payables are stated with the amount of customs deferred tax.
Interest and penalties relating to tax are also included in duty or sales tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profits for the authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the balance sheet.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are Own equity instruments taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that The groups holdings in its own equity instruments, including ordinary are never taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is shares held by Employee Share Ownership Plans ESOPs, are classified calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively as treasury shares, or own shares for the ESOPs, and are shown as enacted by the balance sheet date.
deductions from shareholders equity at cost.
Consideration received for Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on all the sale of such shares is also recognized in equity, with any difference temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being taken to bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial the profit and loss account reserve.
No gain or loss is recognized in reporting purposes.
the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Revenue Revenue arising from the sale of goods is recognized when the 114 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes on financial statements Not yet adopted 1.
Significant accounting policies continued The following pronouncements from the IASB will become effective significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer and for future financial reporting periods and have not yet been adopted it can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration IFRS 8 Operating Segments was issued in October 2006 and received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods defines operating segments as components of an entity about which provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, customs separate financial information is available and is evaluated regularly by the duties and sales taxes.
chief operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and Revenues associated with the sale of oil, natural gas, natural gas in assessing performance.
The new standard sets out the required liquids, liquefied natural gas, petroleum and chemicals products and all disclosures for operating segments and is effective for annual periods other items are recognized when the title passes to the customer.
beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
BP will adopt the new standard Physical exchanges are reported net, as are sales and purchases made with effect from 1 January 2009 and expects no change to its segments with a common counterparty, as part of an arrangement similar to a that are separately reported but anticipates that its segmental analysis physical exchange.
Similarly, where the group acts as agent on behalf of a will be based on non-GAAP measures as used by the chief operating third party to procure or market energy commodities, any associated fee decision maker.
There will be no effect on the groups reported income or income is recognized but no purchase or sale is recorded.
IFRS 8 has been adopted by the EU.
where forward sale and purchase contracts for oil, natural gas or power In September 2007, the IASB issued Amendments to IAS 1 have been determined to be for trading purposes, the associated sales Presentation of Financial Statements A Revised Presentation, which and purchases are reported net within sales and other operating requires separate presentation of owner and non-owner changes in equity revenues whether or not physical delivery has occurred.
by introducing the statement of comprehensive income.
The statement of Generally, revenues from the production of oil and natural gas recognized income and expense will no longer be presented.
Whenever properties in which the group has an interest with joint venture partners there is a restatement or reclassification, an additional balance sheet, as at are recognized on the basis of the groups working interest in those the beginning of the earliest period presented, will be required to be properties the entitlement method.
Differences between the production published.
The revised standard is effective for annual periods beginning sold and the groups share of production are not significant.
on or after 1 January 2009 and BP will adopt it from that date.
There will Interest income is recognized as the interest accrues using the be no effect on the groups reported income or net assets.
IAS 1 Revised effective interest rate that is the rate that exactly discounts estimated has been adopted by the EU.
future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument In January 2008, the IASB issued a revised version of IFRS 3 to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
The revised standard still requires the purchase Dividend income from investments is recognized when the method of accounting to be applied to business combinations but will shareholders right to receive the payment is established.
introduce some changes to existing accounting treatment.
For example, contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the date of acquisition Research and subsequently remeasured to fair value with changes recognized in Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Goodwill may be calculated based on the parents share of net assets or it may include goodwill related to the minority interest.
All Finance costs transaction costs are expensed.
The standard is applicable to business Finance costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or combinations occurring in accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a 2009 and BP plans to adopt it with effect from 1 January 2010.
Assets and substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use, are added liabilities arising from business combinations occurring before the date of to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially adoption by the group will not be restated and thus there will be no effect ready for their intended use.
on the groups reported income or net assets on adoption.
The revised All other finance costs are recognized in the income statement in standard has not yet been adopted by the EU.
the period in which they are incurred.
Also in January 2008, the IASB issued an amended version of IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
This requires the Use of estimates effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in The preparation of financial statements requires management to make equity if there is no change in control.
Such transactions will no longer estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets result in goodwill or gains or losses.
When control is lost, any remaining and liabilities as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities interest in the entity is remeasured to fair value and a gain or loss at the balance sheet date and the reported amounts of revenues and recognized in profit or loss.
The amendment is effective for annual expenses during the reporting period.
Actual outcomes could differ from periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 and is to be applied those estimates.
BP plans to adopt the amendment with effect from 1 January 2010 and has not yet completed Impact of new International Financial Reporting Standards its evaluation of the effect of adoption.
The revised standard has not yet Adopted for 2008 been adopted by the EU.
Standards and interpretations adopted in the year had no significant In addition, IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers was impact on the financial statements.
issued in January 2009 and is effective prospectively from 1 July 2009.
BP has not yet completed its evaluation of the effect of adopting this interpretation.
There are no other standards and interpretations in issue but not yet adopted that the directors anticipate will have a material effect on the reported income or net assets of the group.
