BP Annual Review 2008 Alternative Energy BPs substantial investments in alternative energy have created businesses and technologies with the potential to deliver cleaner energy and long-term value.
2008 saw a sharper focus on the most promising areas.
Highlights Major acquisitions and partnerships in biofuels.
Strong growth in US wind sector.
Continued progress in solar power.
BP is helping to meet the worlds growing demand for sustainable and affordable energy, building alternative energy businesses with the potential to grow and compete far into the future.
That requires us to identify todays most promising alternative technologies and transform them into sources of secure, reliable and cleaner energy.
We invest signi cantly more in this area than our peers.
At its launch in 2005 we committed $8 billion to our Alternative Energy business and, this year, we have invested $1.4 billion.
In 2008 we prioritized four areas with signi cant long-term growth potential wind, solar, biofuels and CCS.
We have also developed a fifth area gasred power that offers synergies with other BP operations.
Wind Since the launch of Alternative Energy we have substantially grown our wind portfolio, increasing from a 32 megawatts MW in operation to 432MW 785MW gross at the end of 2008.
In total, we have more than a 500MW of installed capacity 1000MW gross.
We began 2008 with full commercial operations at several wind farms across the US, including Cedar Creek, Colorado.
This 274-turbine facility was delivered on time, on budget and without a single lost-time safety incident during construction.
Our US wind portfolio now has enough potential total generating capacity to supply low-carbon electricity to some six million average American homes.
a Figures represent net wind capacity, which is the sum of the rated capacities Brazil of the assets turbines, including BPs share of the equity-accounted entities.
An employee inspects The equivalent capacities on a gross basis include 100% of the capacity of the a sugar cane plantation equity-accounted entities where BP has partial ownership.
at the Tropical BioEnergia S. A. joint ventures biofuels AE in more detail facility in Edia, Goias bpalternativenergy.
com State, Brazil, which started production in 2008.
27 impact on food supplies and by developing advanced BP Annual Review 2008 technologies to make good biofuels even better.
Alternative Energy In April 2008 we acquired a 50% stake in Tropical BioEnergia S. A. the largest single investment in the Brazilian bioethanol industry by an international oil company.
Tropicals first facility in Edia, Goias Solar State, Brazil, began production of bioethanol in Our strategy is to invest in lower-cost manufacturing September 2008 and is expected to have a capacity to enable energy from our products to compete with of 115 million US gallons.
During 2008 we In August 2008 we announced a strategic signed a number of strategic partnership agreements partnership with the Verenium Corporation to accelerate in Asia, providing us with access to greater volumes the development and commercialization of lignocellulosic of high-quality low-cost solar modules.
We are already bioethanol, an advanced biofuel that can be made from one of the worlds major manufacturers of solar panels energy grasses and the non-edible parts of plants.
and, this year, increased sales from 115MW to 162MW.
This ts with our commitment to bring more sustainable More than 70% of our sales volume was sold to biofuels to market faster.
residential customers in Europe, the US and Australasia.
We have also been working with DuPont since In the US, since late 2007, we have installed a total 2003 to explore new approaches to the development of of 4MW of solar capacity at seven Walmart facilities biofuels.
The first product from this collaboration will be in California.
We also completed two of the largest an advanced fuel molecule called biobutanol, which has solar projects ever installed in Spain, which are a higher energy content than ethanol.
expected to provide up to one million customers with access to renewable electricity.
Carbon capture and storage We continue to support the Solar Cities CCS captures the CO emitted during the burning 2 concept, through which seven Australian cities and processing of fossil fuels, transporting and storing are demonstrating the economic and environmental it safely in deep geological formations such as oil or bene ts of solar power.
CCS technology, including pre-combustion capture technology, will enable low-carbon production Biofuels of electricity using secure sources of coal or other We expect to see very strong market growth fossil fuels.
a for biofuels out to 2030 and beyond.
Our strategy We are responding to the challenges of CCS by is to increase production of sustainable biofuels investing in advanced research and practical engineering rapidly, by using biofuel sources that minimize any solutions.
In 2000 we launched the CO Capture 2 Project and established the Carbon Mitigation Initiative at Princeton University.
In 2004, at the In Salah gas eld a Source: World Energy Outlook 2008.
OECD IEA 2008. in Algeria, we started capturing, injecting and storing up to one million tonnes of CO per annum, equivalent to 2 removing 250,000 cars from the road.
And in 2005 Total energy use increase 2007-2008 we joined the Advisory Council of the Zero Emissions Power Technology Platform, advising on CCS technology development and deployment in order to help Europe meet its emissions reduction targets.
Hydrogen Energy, our joint venture with Rio Tinto, 37% is working on developing low-carbon power plants in Solar Abu Dhabi and California that manufacture hydrogen for power generation.
In both instances the captured CO 2 will be transported to nearby oil elds for use in enhanced oil recovery, with the CO stored deep underground.
2 Government support and policy and regulatory 27.8% frameworks around CCS are now being introduced in Ethanol key markets throughout the world with the aim to facilitate the development and wide-scale deployment of CCS technology.
These renewable sources 28.5% Gasred power experienced rapid growth Our gasred power activities comprise modern Wind in 2007 and are playing an combined cycle gas turbine plants, which emit around increasingly important role 50% less CO than a conventional coal plant of the 2 in some countries.
same capacity, and several low-carbon co-generation Sources: BP Statistical Review gas power facilities.
Our co-generation plants are of World Energy June 2008. helping to make BPs re ning operations more ef cient Photovoltaic Power Systems while reducing emissions, such as at the Texas City Programme Annual Report 2007.
OECD IEA 2007. re nery, and our combined cycle plants are providing base-load demand for BPs major upstream gas Renewable energy statistics production developments.
com statisticalreview 28 Vivienne Cox The lightweight sail uses 256 BP Solar glass Chief Executive, Alternative Energy modules combined with fabric, aluminium and transparent solar modules.
2008 was a year of disciplined growth, with a clear focus on areas offering material value for BP wind, solar, biofuels, carbon capture and storage and gasred power.
Powered by wind Our Sherbino 1 facility in Texas started commercial operation in 2008 and is expected to have a capacity of 750MW.
SolarSail Designed and built by BP Solar and We worked very closely with BP and biofuels the construction team to ensure opened to the public in 2008, the SolarSail demonstration project is BPs safety standards were implemented and the project Why is BP investing in biofuels?
inspiring and educating visitors to the Guangdong Science Centre, was completed without incident.
Transport accounts for around 20% of CO emissions 2 The SolarSail now helps to power China.
The 20-metre-high, 30-metreglobally, and by 2030 the number of vehicles on the worlds roads wide steel spaceframe supports a the science centre and provides is estimated to have doubled to two billion.
Biofuels are the best information on solar power, but sail of transparent solar modules currently available renewable fuel option to reduce carbon emissions and fabric, which is mounted on large it also serves to symbolize what can be achieved through the concrete plinths.
Completed in just and diversify supply.
We expect to see very strong growth in this eight weeks, this was the first time combination of technology, a market over 15-30 years and estimate that biofuels could provide investment and imagination.
such a complex, innovative structure up to three million boe d by 2020. had been constructed in the region and this presented signi cant safety Can biofuels help to address climate change?
Local contractors were required to carry out more than 1,000 Biofuels can help reduce transport-related emissions because separate lifting operations while CO absorbed by plants as they grow can offset those emitted during 2 handling sloping and curved surfaces.
the whole process of farming, producing the fuel and burning it in an engine.
However, the exact CO savings depend on many factors and 2 some biofuels are better than others.
Brazilian sugar cane bioethanol Ethanol production is currently the most ef cient biofuel and can reduce emissions by Our expected full capacity up to 90% compared with gasoline.
BP is committed to producing output at the Tropical biofuels that contribute meaningfully to CO reductions.
BioEnergia S. A. joint ventures 2 biofuel facility in Edia would 115 make it one of the largest Will the growth of biofuels threaten food supply?
ethanol production facilities Biofuels can be made from many crops.
BP is committed to million in Brazil.
producing biofuels in a sustainable way and will focus on crops US gallons that minimize pressure on food supplies.
Studies show that there is suf cient land available globally to support the projected growth in biofuel production alongside growing food and feed supplies, and to meet the demands of a growing global population.
In fact, we see opportunities to integrate fuel and food production by using land in more effective and ef cient ways.
