BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review All such carried costs are subject to regular technical, commercial and Critical accounting policies management review on at least an annual basis to confirm the continued The significant accounting policies of the group are summarized in intent to develop, or otherwise extract value from, the discovery.
Where Financial statements Note 1 on page 108. this is no longer the case, the costs are immediately expensed.
Inherent in the application of many of the accounting policies Once a project is sanctioned for development, the carrying values used in preparing the financial statements is the need for BP of exploration licence and leasehold property acquisition costs and costs management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the associated with exploration wells and exploratory-type stratigraphic reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial test wells, are transferred to production assets within property, plant statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during and equipment.
Actual outcomes could differ from the estimates The capitalized exploration and development costs for proved and assumptions used.
The following summary provides more oil and gas properties which include the costs of drilling unsuccessful information about the critical accounting policies that could have a wells are amortized on the basis of oil-equivalent barrels that are significant impact on the results of the group and should be read in produced in a period as a percentage of the estimated proved reserves.
conjunction with the Notes on financial statements.
Field development costs subject to depreciation are expenditures The accounting policies and areas that require the most significant incurred to date, together with approved future development expenditure judgements and estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated required to develop reserves.
financial statements are in relation to oil and natural gas accounting, The estimated proved reserves used in these unit-of-production including the estimation of reserves, the recoverability of asset carrying calculations vary with the nature of the capitalized expenditure.
The values, taxation, derivative financial instruments, provisions and reserves used in the calculation of the unit-of-production amortization contingencies, and pensions and other post-retirement benefits.
are as follows: Producing wells proved developed reserves.
Oil and natural gas accountingLicence and property acquisition, field development and future The group follows the successful efforts method of accounting for its oil decommissioning costs total proved reserves.
and natural gas exploration and production activities.
The impact of changes in estimated proved reserves is dealt with The acquisition of geological and geophysical seismic information, prospectively by amortizing the remaining carrying value of the asset over prior to the discovery of proved reserves, is expensed as incurred.
If proved reserves estimates are revised Exploration licence and leasehold property acquisition costs are downwards, earnings could be affected by higher depreciation expense capitalized within intangible assets and are reviewed at each reporting or an immediate write-down of the propertys carrying value see date to confirm that there is no indication that the carrying amount discussion of recoverability of asset carrying values on the following exceeds the recoverable amount.
This review includes confirming that page.
exploration drilling is still under way or firmly planned or that it has been At the end of 2006, BP adopted the SEC rules for estimating determined, or work is under way to determine, that the discovery is reserves instead of the UK accounting rules contained in the UK economically viable based on a range of technical and commercial Statement of Recommended Practice.
These changes are explained in considerations and sufficient progress is being made on establishing Financial statements Note 10 on page 127. development plans and timing.
If no future activity is planned, the The estimation of oil and natural gas reserves and BPs process remaining balance of the licence and property acquisition costs is written to manage reserves bookings is described in Exploration and Production off.
Lower value licences are pooled and amortized on a straight-line Reserves and production on page 18.
As discussed on the following basis over the estimated period of exploration.
page, oil and natural gas reserves have a direct impact on the For exploration wells and exploratory-type stratigraphic test wells, assessment of the recoverability of asset carrying values reported in the costs directly associated with the drilling of wells are initially capitalized financial statements.
within intangible assets, pending determination of whether potentially The 2008 movements in proved reserves are reflected in the economic oil and gas reserves have been discovered by the drilling effort.
tables showing movements in oil and gas reserves by region in Financial These costs include employee remuneration, materials and fuel used, statements Supplementary information on oil and natural gas on pages rig costs, delay rentals and payments made to contractors.
The 182 to 190. determination is usually made within one year after well completion, but can take longer, depending on the complexity of the geological structure.
If the well did not encounter potentially economic oil and gas quantities, the well costs are expensed as a dry hole and are reported in exploration expense.
Exploration wells that discover potentially economic quantities of oil and gas and are in areas where major capital expenditure e. g. offshore platform or a pipeline would be required before production could begin, and where the economic viability of that major capital expenditure depends on the successful completion of further exploration work in the area, remain capitalized on the balance sheet as long as additional exploration appraisal work is under way or firmly planned.
It is not unusual to have exploration wells and exploratory-type stratigraphic test wells remaining suspended on the balance sheet for several years while additional appraisal drilling and seismic work on the potential oil and gas field is performed or while the optimum development plans and timing are established.
61 Performance review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review Recoverability of asset carrying values Taxation BP assesses its fixed assets, including goodwill, for possible impairment The computation of the groups income tax expense involves the if there are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that carrying interpretation of applicable tax laws and regulations in many jurisdictions values of the assets may not be recoverable and, as a result, charges for throughout the world.
The resolution of tax positions taken by the group, impairment are recognized in the groups results from time to time.
Such through negotiations with relevant tax authorities or through litigation, indicators include changes in the groups business plans, changes in can take several years to complete and in some cases it is difficult to commodity prices leading to unprofitable performance, low plant predict the ultimate outcome.
utilization, evidence of physical damage and, for oil and gas properties, In addition, the group has carry-forward tax losses in certain significant downward revisions of estimated volumes or increases in taxing jurisdictions that are available to offset against future taxable estimated future development expenditure.
If there are low oil prices, profit.
However, deferred tax assets are recognized only to the extent natural gas prices, refining margins or marketing margins during that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the an extended period, the group may need to recognize significant unused tax losses can be utilized.
Management judgement is exercised impairment charges.
in assessing whether this is the case.
The assessment for impairment entails comparing the carrying To the extent that actual outcomes differ from managements value of the cash-generating unit with its recoverable amount, that is, estimates, taxation charges or credits may arise in future periods.
For the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Value in use more information see Financial statements Note 20 on page 135 and is usually determined on the basis of discounted estimated future Note 44 on page 174. net cash flows.
Determination as to whether and how much an asset is impaired Derivative financial instruments involves management estimates on highly uncertain matters such as The group uses derivative financial instruments to manage certain future commodity prices, the effects of inflation on operating expenses, exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest discount rates, production profiles and the outlook for global or regional rates and commodity prices as well as for trading purposes.
In addition, market supply-and-demand conditions for crude oil, natural gas and derivatives embedded within other financial instruments or other host refined products.
contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and For oil and natural gas properties, the expected future cash flows characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract.
All are estimated based on the groups plans to continue to develop and such derivatives are initially recognized at fair value on the date on which produce proved reserves and associated risk-adjusted probable and a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at possible volumes.
Expected future cash flows from the sale or fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of production of these volumes are calculated based on the managements derivatives that are not designated as effective hedging instruments are best estimate of future oil and gas prices.
Prices for oil and natural gas recognized in the income statement.
used for future cash flow calculations are based on market prices for the In some cases the fair values of derivatives are estimated using first five years and the groups long-term planning assumptions models and other valuation methods due to the absence of quoted prices thereafter.
As at 31 December 2008, the groups long-term planning or other observable, market-corroborated data.
In particular, this applies assumptions were $75 per barrel for Brent and $7.50 mmBtu for Henry to the majority of the groups natural gas and LNG embedded derivatives.
These long-term planning These are primarily long-term UK gas contracts that use pricing formulae assumptions are subject to periodic review and modification.
The not related to gas prices, for example, oil product and power prices.
estimated future level of production is based on assumptions about These contracts are valued using models with inputs that include price future commodity prices, lifting and development costs, field decline curves for each of the different products that are built up from active rates, market demand and supply, economic regulatory climates and market pricing data and extrapolated to the expiry of the contracts using other factors.
the maximum available external pricing information.
Additionally, where The future cash flows are adjusted for risks specific to the cashlimited data exists for certain products, prices are interpolated using generating unit and are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate.
The historic and long-term pricing relationships.
Price volatility is also an input discount rate is derived from the groups post-tax weighted average cost for the models.
Changes in the key assumptions could have a material of capital and is adjusted where applicable to take into account any impact on the gains and losses on embedded derivatives recognized in specific risks relating to the country where the cash-generating unit is the income statement.
For more information see Financial statements located.
An analysis of the sensitivity of the fair value of the The rate applied in each country is re-assessed each year by analyzing natural gas and LNG derivatives to changes in the key assumptions is relevant information.
provided in Financial statements Note 28 on page 142.
Irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment, BP is required to test annually for impairment of goodwill acquired in a business combination.
The group carries goodwill of approximately $9.9 billion on its balance sheet, principally relating to the Atlantic Richfield and Burmah Castrol acquisitions.
In testing goodwill for impairment, the group uses a similar approach to that described above.
If there are low oil prices or natural gas prices or refining margins or marketing margins for an extended period, the group may need to recognize significant goodwill impairment charges.
62 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review Provisions and contingencies Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The group holds provisions for the future decommissioning of oil and Accounting for pensions and other post-retirement benefits involves natural gas production facilities and pipelines at the end of their economic judgement about uncertain events, including estimated retirement dates, lives.
The largest asset removal obligations facing BP relate to the salary levels at retirement, mortality rates, rates of return on plan assets, removal and disposal of oil and natural gas platforms and pipelines determination of discount rates for measuring plan obligations, healthcare around the world.
The estimated discounted costs of dismantling and cost trend rates and rates of utilization of healthcare services by retirees.
removing these facilities are accrued on the installation of those facilities, These assumptions are based on the environment in each country.
reflecting our legal obligations at that time.
A corresponding asset of an Determination of the projected benefit obligations for the groups defined amount equivalent to the provision is also created within property, plant benefit pension and post-retirement plans is important to the recorded and equipment.
This asset is depreciated over the expected life of the amounts for such obligations on the balance sheet and to the amount of production facility or pipeline.
Most of these removal events are many benefit expense in the income statement.
The assumptions used may years in the future and the precise requirements that will have to be met vary from year to year, which will affect future results of operations.
Any when the removal event actually occurs are uncertain.
Asset removal differences between these assumptions and the actual outcome also technologies and costs are constantly changing, as well as political, affect future results of operations.
environmental, safety and public expectations.
Consequently, the timing Pension and other post-retirement benefit assumptions are and amounts of future cash flows are subject to significant uncertainty.
reviewed by management at the end of each year.
These assumptions Changes in the expected future costs are reflected in both the provision are used to determine the projected benefit obligation at the year-end and the asset.
and hence the surpluses and deficits recorded on the groups balance Decommissioning provisions associated with downstream and sheet, and pension and other post-retirement benefit expense for the petrochemicals facilities are generally not provided for, as such potential following year.
obligations cannot be measured, given their indeterminate settlement The pension and other post-retirement benefit assumptions at dates.
The group performs periodic reviews of its downstream 31 December 2008, 2007 and 2006 are provided in Financial statements and petrochemicals long-lived assets for any changes in facts Note 38 on page 159. and circumstances that might require the recognition of a The assumed rate of investment return, discount rate and the decommissioning provision.
US healthcare cost trend rate have a significant effect on the amounts The timing and amount of future expenditures are reviewed reported.
A sensitivity analysis of the impact of changes in these annually, together with the interest rate used in discounting the cash assumptions on the benefit expense and obligation is provided in flows.
The interest rate used to determine the balance sheet obligation at Financial statements Note 38 on page 159. the end of 2008 was 2%, unchanged from the end of 2007.
The interest In addition to the financial assumptions, we regularly review the rate represents the real rate i. e. adjusted for inflation on long-dated demographic and mortality assumptions.
Mortality assumptions reflect government bonds.
best practice in the countries in which we provide pensions and have Other provisions and liabilities are recognized in the period when been chosen with regard to the latest available published tables adjusted it becomes probable that there will be a future outflow of funds resulting where appropriate to reflect the experience of the group and an from past operations or events and the amount of cash outflow can be extrapolation of past longevity improvements into the future.
The timing of recognition requires the application of substantial pension liabilities are in the UK, US and Germany and the judgement to existing facts and circumstances, which can be subject to mortality assumptions for these countries are detailed in Financial change.
Since the actual cash outflows can take place many years in the statements Note 38 on page 159. future, the carrying amounts of provisions and liabilities are reviewed regularly and adjusted to take account of changing facts and circumstances.
A change in estimate of a recognized provision or liability would result in a charge or credit to net income in the period in which the change occurs with the exception of decommissioning costs as described above.
Provisions for environmental clean-up and remediation costs are based on current legal and constructive requirements, technology, price levels and expected plans for remediation.
Actual costs and cash outflows can differ from estimates because of changes in laws and regulations, public expectations, prices, discovery and analysis of site conditions and changes in clean-up technology.
The provision for environmental liabilities is reviewed at least annually.
The interest rate used to determine the balance sheet obligation at 31 December 2008 was 2%, the same rate as at the previous balance sheet date.
As further described in Financial statements Note 44 on page 174, the group is subject to claims and actions.
The facts and circumstances relating to particular cases are evaluated regularly in determining whether it is probable that there will be a future outflow of funds and, once established, whether a provision relating to a specific litigation should be adjusted.
Accordingly, significant management judgement relating to contingent liabilities is required, since the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict.
