BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes on financial statements 11.
Impairment and losses on sale of businesses and fixed assets continued Refining and Marketing During 2008, the Refining and Marketing segment recognized impairment losses on a number of assets which in total amounted to $159 million.
The main component of the 2007 impairment charge of $1,186 million arose because of a decision to sell our company-owned and companyoperated sites in the US resulting in a $610 million write-down of the carrying amount of the sites to fair value less costs to sell.
Following a decision to sell certain assets at our Acetyls plant in Hull, UK, we wrote down the carrying amount of these assets to fair value less costs to sell leading to an impairment charge of $186 million.
Changing marketing conditions led to impairments in Samsung Petrochemical Company, to fair value less costs to sell, and in China American Petrochemical Company amounting in total to $165 million.
The balance relates principally to the write-downs of assets elsewhere in the segment portfolio.
During 2006, certain assets in our Retail and Aromatics & Acetyls businesses were written down to fair value less costs to sell.
Other businesses and corporate During 2008, Other businesses and corporate recognized impairment losses totalling $227 million primarily related to various assets in the Alternative Energy business.
There were no significant impairments in 2007.
The impairment charge for 2006 relates to remaining chemical assets after the sale of Innovene.
Loss on sale of fixed assets The principal transactions that give rise to the losses for each business segment are described below.
Exploration and Production The group divested interests in a number of oil and natural gas properties in all three years.
For 2006, the largest component of the loss is attributed to the sale of properties in the Gulf of Mexico Shelf, which included increases in decommissioning liability estimates associated with the hurricanedamaged fields that were divested during the year.
Refining and Marketing For 2008, the principal transactions contributing to the loss were disposals of retail sites in the US and Europe.
For 2007, the principal transactions contributing to the loss were related to the decision to withdraw from the company-owned and companyoperated channel of trade in the US and retail churn.
Retail churn is the overall process of acquiring and disposing of retail sites by which the group aims to improve the quality and mix of its portfolio of service stations.
For 2006, the principal transactions contributing to the loss were retail churn.
Impairment review of goodwill $ million Goodwill at 31 December 2008 2007 Exploration and Production 4,297 4,296 Refining and Marketing 5,462 6,626 Other businesses and corporate 119 84 9,878 11,006 Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to groups of cash-generating units cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the acquisition.
For Exploration and Production, goodwill has been allocated to each geographic region, that is UK, Rest of Europe, US and Rest of World, and for Refining and Marketing, goodwill has been allocated to the Rhine Fuels Value Chain FVC, US West Coast FVC, Lubricants and Other.
In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit including goodwill is compared with the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In the absence of any information about the fair value of a cash-generating unit, the recoverable amount is deemed to be the value in use.
The group calculates the recoverable amount as the value in use using a discounted cash flow model.
The future cash flows are adjusted for risks specific to the cash-generating unit and are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate.
The discount rate is derived from the groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital and is adjusted where applicable to take into account any specific risks relating to the country where the cash-generating unit is located.
The rate to be applied to each country is reassessed each year.
A discount rate of 11% has been used for all goodwill impairment calculations performed in 2008 2007 11%.
The three-year or four-year business segment plans, which are approved on an annual basis by senior management, are the primary source of information for the determination of value in use.
They contain forecasts for oil and natural gas production, refinery throughputs, sales volumes for various types of refined products e. g. gasoline and lubricants, revenues, costs and capital expenditure.
As an initial step in the preparation of these plans, various environmental assumptions, such as oil prices, natural gas prices, refining margins, refined product margins and cost inflation rates, are set by senior management.
These environmental assumptions take account of existing prices, global supply-demand equilibrium for oil and natural gas, other macroeconomic factors and historical trends and variability.
For the purposes of impairment testing, the groups Brent oil price assumption is an average $49 per barrel in 2009, $59 per barrel in 2010, $65 per barrel in 2011, $68 per barrel in 2012, $70 per barrel in 2013 and $75 per barrel in 2014 and beyond 2007 average $90 per barrel in 2008, $86 per barrel in 2009, $84 per barrel in 2010, $84 per barrel in 2011, $84 per barrel in 2012 and $60 per barrel in 2013 and beyond.
Similarly, the 129 Financial statements BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes on financial statements 12.
Impairment review of goodwill continued groups assumption for Henry Hub natural gas prices is an average of $6.16 mmBtu in 2009, $7.15 mmBtu in 2010, $7.34 mmBtu in 2011, $7.62 mmBtu in 2012, $7.60 mmBtu in 2013 and $7.50 mmBtu in 2014 and beyond 2007 average of $7.87 mmBtu in 2008, $8.33 mmBtu in 2009, $8.26 mmBtu in 2010, $8.12 mmBtu in 2011, $8.00 mmBtu in 2012 and $7.50 mmBtu in 2013 and beyond.
The prices for the first five years are derived from forward price curves at the year-end.
Prices in 2014 and beyond are determined using long-term views of global supply and demand, building upon past experience of the industry and consistent with a number of external economic forecasts.
These prices are adjusted to arrive at appropriate consistent price assumptions for different qualities of oil and gas.
Exploration and Production The value in use is based on the cash flows expected to be generated by the projected oil or natural gas production profiles up to the expected dates of cessation of production of each producing field.
Management believes that the cash flows generated over the estimated life of field is the appropriate basis upon which to assess goodwill and individual assets for impairment, as the production profile and related cash flows can be estimated from the companys past experience.
The date of cessation of production depends on the interaction of a number of variables, such as the recoverable quantities of hydrocarbons, the production profile of the hydrocarbons, the cost of the development of the infrastructure necessary to recover the hydrocarbons, the production costs, the contractual duration of the production concession and the selling price of the hydrocarbons produced.
As each producing field has specific reservoir characteristics and economic circumstances, the cash flows of the fields are computed using appropriate individual economic models and key assumptions agreed by BPs management for the purpose.
Capital expenditure and operating costs for the first four years and expected hydrocarbon production profiles up to 2020 are derived from the business segment plan.
Estimated production quantities and cash flows up to the date of cessation of production on a field-by-field basis are developed to be consistent with this.
The production profiles used are consistent with the resource volumes approved as part of BPs centrally-controlled process for the estimation of proved reserves and total resources.
Consistent with prior years, the 2008 review for impairment was carried out during the fourth quarter.
Detailed calculations were performed for the US and the UK.
As permitted by IAS 36, the detailed calculations performed in 2005 were used for the 2008 impairment test on the goodwill for the Rest of World as the criteria of IAS 36 were considered to be satisfied: the excess of the recoverable amount over the carrying amount was substantial in 2005: there had been no significant change in the assets and liabilities: and the likelihood that the recoverable amount would be less than the carrying amount at the time of the test was remote.
The following table shows the carrying amount of the goodwill allocated to each of the regions of the Exploration and Production segment and, for the US and the UK, the amount by which the recoverable amount value in use exceeds the carrying amount of the goodwill and other non-current assets in the cash-generating units to which the goodwill has been allocated.
No impairment charge is required.
The key assumptions required for the value-in-use estimation are the oil and natural gas prices, production volumes and the discount rate.
To test the sensitivity of the excess of the recoverable amount over the carrying amount of goodwill and other non-current assets the headroom to changes in production volumes and oil and natural gas prices, management has developed rules of thumb for key assumptions.
Applying these gives an indication of the impact on the headroom of possible changes in the key assumptions.
It is estimated that the long-term price of oil that would cause the total recoverable amount to be equal to the total carrying amount for each cash-generating unit would be of the order of $38 per barrel for the UK and $50 per barrel for the US.
It was estimated that the long-term price of gas that would cause the total recoverable amount to be equal to the total carrying amount of goodwill and related non-current assets for the US cash-generating unit would be of the order of $4 mmBtu Henry Hub.
As a significant amount of gas from the North Sea is sold under fixed-price contracts, or contracts priced using non-gas indices, it is estimated that no reasonably possible change in gas prices would cause the UK headroom to be reduced to zero.
It was estimated that no reasonably possible change in oil and gas prices would cause the headroom in Rest of World to be reduced to zero.
Estimated production volumes are based on detailed data for the fields and take into account development plans for the fields agreed by management as part of the long-term planning process.
It is estimated that, if all our production were to be reduced by 10% for the whole of the next 15 years, this would not be sufficient to reduce the excess of recoverable amount over the carrying amounts of each cash-generating unit to zero.
Consequently, management believes no reasonably possible change in the production assumption would cause the carrying amounts to exceed the recoverable amounts.
Management also believes that currently there is no reasonably possible change in discount rate that would cause the carrying amounts in the UK, US or Rest of World to exceed the recoverable amounts.
$ million 2008 Rest of UK US World Total Goodwill 341 3,441 515 4,297 Excess of recoverable amount over carrying amount 7,972 16,692 n a n a $ million 2007 Rest of UK US World Total Goodwill 341 3,440 515 4,296 130 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes on financial statements 12.
Impairment review of goodwill continued Refining and Marketing In previous years, Refining and Marketing goodwill has been allocated to the following cash-generating units: Refining, Retail, Lubricants, and Other.
In 2008, the Refining and Retail units were largely integrated into geographically-based Fuels Value Chain units FVC and consequently the cashgenerating units to which goodwill is allocated have been redefined.
The goodwill previously allocated to the global Refining and Retail units has been aggregated and reallocated to the FVC units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combinations that gave rise to the goodwill.
As part of this reallocation a small amount of goodwill was also allocated to business units included in Other.
Goodwill is now allocated to the following cash-generating units: Rhine FVC, US West Coast FVC, Lubricants and Other.
For all cash-generating units, the cash flows for the first three years are derived from the three-year business segment plan.
For determining the value in use for each of the cash-generating units, cash flows for a period of 10 years have been discounted and aggregated with a terminal value.
A key assumption for the FVCs is the Global Indicator Margin GIM.
Each regional GIM is based on a single representative crude with product yields characteristic of the typical level of upgrading complexity.
Rhine FVC Cash flows beyond the three-year period are extrapolated using a 1.2% growth rate.
The key assumptions to which the calculation of value in use for the Rhine FVC unit is most sensitive are refinery gross margins, refinery production volumes and discount rate.
The average value assigned to the refinery gross margin during the plan period is based on a $5.50 per barrel GIM.
The average value assigned to the refinery production volume is 250mmbbl a year over the plan period.
These key assumptions reflect past experience and are consistent with external sources.
The Rhine FVCs recoverable amount exceeds its carrying amount by $3.6 billion.
Based on sensitivity analysis, it is estimated that: i if the GIM changes by $1 per barrel, the Rhine FVCs value in use changes by $2.1 billion and, if there was an adverse change in the GIM of $1.70 per barrel, the recoverable amount of the Rhine FVC would equal its carrying amount: ii if the volume assumption changes by 13mmbbl a year, the Rhine FVCs value in use changes by $1.2 billion and, if there is an adverse change in refinery volumes of 36mmbbl a year, the recoverable amount of the Rhine FVC would equal its carrying amount: and iii a change of 1% in the discount rate would change the Rhine FVCs value in use by $0.8 billion and, if the discount rate increases to 17% the value in use of the Rhine FVC would equal its carrying amount.
US West Coast FVC Cash flows beyond the three-year period are extrapolated using a 2% growth rate.
The key assumptions to which the calculation of value in use for the West Coast FVC unit is most sensitive are refinery gross margins, refinery production volumes and discount rate.
The average value assigned to the refinery gross margin during the plan period is based on a $7.60 per barrel GIM.
The average value assigned to the refinery production volume is 170mmbbl a year over the plan period.
The West Coast FVCs recoverable amount exceeds its carrying amount by $1.6 billion.
Based on sensitivity analysis, it is estimated that: i if the GIM changes by $1 per barrel, the West Coast FVCs value in use changes by $1.5 billion and, if there was an adverse change in the GIM of $1.10 per barrel, the recoverable amount of the West Coast FVC would equal its carrying amount: ii if the volume assumption changes by 8mmbbl a year, the West Coast FVCs value in use changes by $1.1 billion and, if there is an adverse change in refinery volumes of 12mmbbl a year, the recoverable amount of the West Coast FVC would equal its carrying amount: and iii a change of 1% in the discount rate would change the West Coast FVCs value in use by $0.6 billion and, if the discount rate increases to 14% the value in use of the West Coast FVC would equal its carrying amount.
Lubricants Cash flows beyond the three-year period are extrapolated using a 3% growth rate 2007 3%.
For the Lubricants unit, the key assumptions to which the calculation of value in use is most sensitive are operating margin, sales volumes and discount rate.
The average values assigned to the operating margin and sales volumes over the plan period are 70 cents per litre 2007 65 cents per litre and 3.4 billion litres a year 2007 3.3 billion litres a year respectively.
These key assumptions reflect past experience.
The Lubricants units recoverable amount exceeds its carrying amount by $5.4 billion.
Based on sensitivity analysis, it is estimated that: i if there is an adverse change in the operating margin of 14 cents per litre, the recoverable amount of the Lubricants unit would equal its carrying amount: ii if the sales volume assumption changes by 200 million litres a year, the Lubricants units value in use changes by $1.4 billion and, if there is an adverse change in Lubricants sales volumes of 700 million litres a year, the recoverable amount of the Lubricants unit would equal its carrying amount: and iii a change of 1% in the discount rate would change the Lubricants units value in use by $1.4 billion and, management believes no reasonably possible change in the discount rate would lead to the Lubricants units value in use being equal to its carrying amount.
$ million 2008 US West Rhine FVC Coast FVC Lubricants Other Total Goodwill 637 1,579 3,043 203 5,462 Excess of recoverable amount over carrying amount 3,603 1,629 5,445 n a n a $ million 2007 Refining Retail Lubricants Other Total Goodwill 1,515 827 4,175 109 6,626 Excess of recoverable amount over carrying amount 11,443 4,062 5,028 n a n a Comparative narrative information is not generally shown because, due to the reorganization of the Refining and Marketing business in 2008, the information is not relevant to an understanding of the current years financial statements.
