BP Annual Review 2008 Information for shareholders Reports and publications You can order BPs printed publications, free of charge, from: US and Canada BP Shareholder Services Toll-free 1 800 638 5672 Fax 1 630 821 3456 shareholderus@bp.
com UK and Rest of World BP Distribution Services Tel 44 0 870 241 3269 Fax 44 0 870 240 5753 BPs reports and publications are available to view online @bp.
Annual Report and Accounts Sustainability Review Read details of our financial Read the summary and operating performance in BP Sustainability Review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 in print or read more 2008 in print or online.
com sustainability Acknowledgements Paper Design sasdesign.
co. uk This Annual Review is printed on Typesetting Orb Solutions, London FSC-certi ed Revive Uncoated Printing St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, UK Enhanced paper.
This paper has ISO 14001, FSC-certi ed and CarbonNeutral been independently certi ed Photography Fred Chitty, Stuart Conway, according to the rules of the Forest Richard Davies, Joshua Drake, Mike Ellis, Stewardship Council FSC and it Damian Gillie, Philip Lee Harvey, was manufactured at a mill that holds Simon Kreitem, Jafe Kuang, Bob Masters, ISO 14001 accreditation.
The inks Marc Morrison, Richard Price, Aaron Tait, used are all vegetable oil based.
Graham Trott BP p. l. c. 2009 41 beyond petroleum bp.
com history Our centenary year BP was incorporated in 1909 as the Anglo-Persian Oil Company.
This followed several years of very demanding exploration, including the test drilling shown in this photograph, at Chiah Surkh, Persia, in 1902.
It took another six years for the team to strike first oil in Persia.
Annual Review 2008 06 Our market 10 Our strategy 12 Our performance bp.
com annualreview 10 0 years of operating at the frontiers Meeting the energy demands Oil Natural gas Wind Solar Biofuels of today and tomorrow First oil at Thunder Horse After more than 10 million work-hours, the Thunder Horse eld in the Gulf of Mexico started production in 2008.
By the end of the year, the team had brought four wells onstream, producing around 200,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Safe and reliable operations On the Thunder Horse platform, critical technologies come in many forms.
Here, the operations team prepare to inject environmentally friendly hydraulic control-line uid into valves to check for pressure problems and leaks.
BP Annual Review 2008 Reconciliation of pro t for the year to replacement cost pro t The Annual Review for the year ended 31 December 2008 includes the summary financial statement on pages 1-5 and 10-41, which comprises summaries of the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report and a summary of the information in the consolidated financial statements.
The summary financial statement complies with the information required under the Companies Summary Financial Statement Regulations 1995.
It does not contain suf cient information to allow as full an understanding of the results and the state of affairs of BP and of its policies and arrangements concerning directors remuneration as BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008.
Shareholders may obtain a copy of BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 online or on request, free of charge see page 41.
Outside the summarized financial statements see pages 32-35, references within BP Annual Review 2008 to pro ts, result and return on average capital employed are to those measures on a replacement cost basis unless otherwise indicated.
The table below reconciles pro t for the year to replacement cost pro t. Comparative information presented here has been restated, where appropriate, to re ect the resegmentation, following transfers of businesses between segments, that was effective from 1 January 2008.
For the year ended 31 December $ million 2008 2007 2006 Pro t before interest and taxation from continuing operations 35,239 32,352 35,158 Finance costs and net finance income relating to pensions and other post-retirement bene ts 956 741 516 Taxation 12,617 10,442 12,331 Minority interest 509 324 286 Pro t for the year from continuing operations attributable to BP shareholders 21,157 20,845 22,025 Pro t loss for the year from Innovene operations 25 Inventory holding gains losses, net of tax 4,436 2,475 222 a b Replacement cost pro t 25,593 18,370 22,222 Replacement cost pro t from continuing operations attributable to BP shareholders 25,593 18,370 22,247 Replacement cost pro t loss from Innovene operations 25 Replacement cost pro t 25,593 18,370 22,222 Exploration and Production 38,308 27,602 31,026 Re ning and Marketing 4,176 2,621 5,161 Other businesses and corporate 1,223 1,209 841 Consolidation adjustment unrealized pro t in inventory 466 220 65 Replacement cost pro t before interest and taxation 41,727 28,794 35,411 Finance costs and net finance income relating to pensions and other post-retirement bene ts 956 741 516 Taxation on a replacement cost basis 14,669 9,359 12,362 Minority interest 509 324 286 Replacement cost pro t from continuing operations attributable to BP shareholders 25,593 18,370 22,247 Per ordinary share cents Pro t for the year attributable to BP shareholders 112.59 108.76 109.84 Replacement cost pro t 136.20 95.85 110.95 Dividends paid per ordinary share cents 55.05 42.30 38.40 pence 29.387 20.995 21.104 Dividends paid per American depositary share ADS dollars 3.303 2.538 2.304 a Replacement cost pro t re ects the replacement cost of supplies.
The replacement cost pro t for the year is arrived at by excluding from pro t inventory holding gains and losses and their associated tax effect.
Inventory holding gains and losses, for this purpose, are calculated for all inventories except for those that are held as a part of a trading position and certain other temporary inventory positions.
BP uses this measure to assist investors in assessing BPs performance from period to period.
Replacement cost pro t is not a recognized GAAP measure.
b Effective 1 January 2008, replacement cost pro t for the year is determined by excluding from pro t inventory holding gains and losses as well as their associated tax effect.
Previously, replacement cost pro t excluded inventory holding gains and losses while the tax charge remained unadjusted and included the tax effect on inventory holding gains and losses.
Comparative amounts have been amended to the new basis and the impact of the change is shown in the table below.
There is no impact on pro t for the year.
For the year ended 31 December $ million 2007 2006 Replacement cost pro t as previously reported 17,287 22,253 tax effect on inventory holding gains and losses 1,083 31 as amended 18,370 22,222 BP p. l. c. is the parent company of the BP group of companies.
Unless otherwise stated, the text does not distinguish between the activities and operations of the parent company and those of its subsidiaries.
The term shareholder in this Annual Review means, unless the context otherwise requires, investors in the equity capital of BP p. l. c. both direct and or indirect.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 and BP Annual Review 2008 may be downloaded from www.
No material on the BP website, other than the items identi ed as BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 and BP Annual Review 2008, forms any part of those documents.
As BP shares, in the form of ADSs, are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, an Annual Report on Form 20-F will be led with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC in accordance with the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
When led, copies may be obtained free of charge see page 41.
BP discloses in its Annual Report on Form 20-F 2008 and on its website at www.
com  signi cant ways if any in which its corporate governance practices differ from those mandated for US companies under NYSE listing standards.
Cautionary statement BP Annual Review 2008 contains certain forward-looking statements, particularly those relating to timing and capacity of projects, demand for fossil fuels, world energy demand, global proved reserves, investment to meet future energy demand, realization of financial impacts of actions taken to create operational momentum, strategy, continuing priority of safety, people and performance, focus of investment, ef ciency of cost base in Exploration and Production, sales growth for US re neries from US convenience retail franchise model, economic environment, headcount reductions, completion of planned petrochemicals projects, growth in biofuels market, dividends, dividend reinvestment plans and executive remuneration.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will or may occur in the future.
Actual results may differ from those expressed in such statements depending on a variety of factors including the timing of bringing new elds onstream, future levels of industry product supply, demand and pricing, operational problems, general economic conditions, political stability and economic growth in relevant areas of the world, changes in laws and governmental regulations, exchange rate uctuations, development and use of new technology, changes in public expectations and other changes in business conditions, the actions of competitors, natural disasters and adverse weather conditions, wars and acts of terrorism or sabotage, and other factors discussed elsewhere in this document and in BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008.
The registered of ce of BP p. l. c. is 1 St Jamess Square, London SW1Y 4PD, UK.
Registered in England and Wales No.
Exploration and 02 Chairmans letter As we enter our centenary Production 14 Further, faster, deeper year, Peter Sutherland assesses BPs progress.
how operating at the frontiers creates sustainable value.
04 Group chief executives review Tony Hayward discusses the critical priorities, issues and opportunities for the group.
06 Our market From oil price volatility to climate change what key energy issues mean for BP.
10 Our strategy Safety, people and performance how we intend to thrive in a fast-changing world.
12 Our performance Key safety, people and performance measures.
Re ning and Marketing It was a year of sustained 20 recovery and turnaround 14 Our business performance How we for Re ning and Marketing.
performed in Exploration and Production, Re ning and Marketing and Alternative Energy.
Alternative Energy Businesses and technologies 30 Our financial performance Analysis and with the potential to deliver summarized financial statements.
cleaner energy and long-term value.
37 Board of directors Information on board members roles and responsibilities.
26 38 Summary directors remuneration report Remuneration policy and the rewards paid to executive and non-executive directors in 2008.
40 Information for shareholders Guidance on the 2009 AGM, dividends, contact information and BPs reports and publications.
Guide to icons Other information These boxes highlight sources of within BP Annual Review 2008 information you may nd helpful.
Green boxes refer to other content Other information within BP Annual Review 2008: available on bp.
com yellow boxes refer to general BP content available online, which does not form part of BP Annual Review 2008.
1 2008 was a year we will all remember.
There are BP Annual Review 2008 few precedents in history for such a rapid and dramatic Chairmans letter change in the business environment.
In the space of a few months we went from a record oil price of more than $140 per barrel, and BP reporting two consecutive quarters of record pro ts for the group, to a recession in most of our major markets.
Despite this changing environment, I am glad to say that BP is in an enviably strong position in terms of its balance sheet, its assets and its people.
That strength is in no small part due to the period of critical self-examination the group has undergone since 2005.
The resulting strategy, devised by Tony Hayward and his team and endorsed by the board, is already bearing fruit and has put us in a much better position to weather the savage economic storms we now face.
The price of oil ended the year at its lowest level for more than four years.
That has obviously affected our financial performance.
The board understands the importance of the dividend to investors in these dif cult times and, despite the weaker environment, we have held the quarterly dividend to be paid in March at 14 cents per share, compared with 13.525 cents per share for the same quarter of 2007.
In sterling terms, the quarterly dividend is 9.818 pence per share, compared with 6.813 pence per share for the same quarter of 2007.
During the year $2.9 billion of shares were repurchased for cancellation, compared with $7.5 billion in 2007.
In response to feedback from investors we are now weighting shareholder returns towards dividends, as opposed to buybacks.
Gathering The search for my successor has unfortunately taken longer than originally expected, in part due to the turbulent business environment.
It is important that pace we nd the right person and we envisage making an announcement in the coming months.
In the meantime Peter Sutherland Chairman I have agreed, at the boards request, to stay on as 24 February 2009 chairman and will seek re-election.
So, this will be my last annual general meeting.
Highlights It has truly been an honour for me to serve 12 years as chairman and before that as a director of what is one Dramatic change in business environment.
of the worlds great enterprises.
During that time I have BP in strong position.
seen BP constantly evolve and, by most measures, nearly double in size.
But the underlying principles of the international oil companys business model continue to endure.
BP and its peers make the energy markets work, by forming partnerships with resource-holding governments and applying our technology to bringing supplies of energy to millions of customers, every day.
2008 has been a reminder that the world economy depends on our efforts.
2 I am pleased we have reached an amicable settlement BP and its peers make the energy with our partners in our Russian joint venture, TNK-BP.
markets work, by forming partnerships with This means BP has retained 50% ownership of what is an important option in one of the worlds most proli c resource-holding governments and applying hydrocarbon provinces.
our technology to bringing supplies of energy I would not normally single out individual to millions of customers, every day.
2008 has executives, but I do want to pay tribute to the work that Bob Dudley has done as chief executive of been a reminder that the world economy TNK-BP.
During his five-year tenure he transformed depends on our efforts.
TNK-BP and it now leads the Russian oil industry on the basis of production growth, reserves replacement and total shareholder return.
I am delighted that Bob will join the BP board in April.
As a managing director, he will assume responsibility for broad oversight of the groups activities in the Americas and Asia.
We had a settled board for much of 2008, but we expect Bob to be the first of several new appointments as we refresh the cadre of non-executive directors through 2009.
In the past 12 years the energy industry has consolidated and taken major technical steps forward, beginning production in some of the more remote areas of the world, such as the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and the Russian Arctic.
Our role has been fide ned and Throughout the year the board has supported Tony and rede ned and BP has led the way in accepting the need his executive team in reforming the way in which the to tackle the threat of climate change.
Throughout that group works to ensure that everyone within BP is clear time the BP board has had outstanding members and, on its long-term purpose.
It is vital that the role of the without exception, I have worked with a group of international oil company is fide ned and understood both extremely talented executives.
inside and outside the organization.
While sticking to its I would like to thank all my board and executive principles, BP needs to be exible in the manner in which colleagues past and present, and all BPs employees.
business is approached, developing a diverse portfolio of I would also like to thank the two company secretaries, projects, with a robust cost structure, enabling the group Judith Hanratty and David Jackson, who have provided to perform throughout the cycle.
me with admirable support during my term.
Finally, All our activities need to take place against a very I thank all our shareholders for their support.
During clear view of risk.
Events during the year have powerfully 2009 we are celebrating BPs centenary and I am reinforced the need for boards to have a very clear con dent that BP can face the next 100 years with understanding of the risks their businesses face.
I believe pride and a renewed sense of purpose.
the BP board and its committees have set a high standard in this regard and we continue to improve the manner in which we understand and evaluate risks whether they be strategic, geopolitical, compliance Our market or operational.
No business can be without risk.
Indeed Read about key issues affecting the energy market on pages 6-9. it is by taking strategic and commercial risks that we earn a return.
com history We have had some notable operational and engineering successes in the year, which are described within this Annual Review.
There are several I could mention, including restoring economic capability at the Texas City re nery, but I would particularly like to focus on the Gulf of Mexico, which is a proving to be a showcase for BPs deepwater skills and technology.
BP is now the number one producer there and Thunder Horse, the worlds largest semi-submersible platform, is on track to reach capacity of about 280,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day boe d in 2009.
Thunder Horse is expected to be the second biggest producing eld in the US and is a powerful symbol of what BP can achieve.
3 Our work on safety has been acknowledged inside BP Annual Review 2008 and outside the group.
For instance, the boards Group chief independent expert, L Duane Wilson, continues to report on our progress in implementing the improvements executives review recommended by the BP US Re neries Independent Safety Review Panel and identify areas that need more focused attention.
Our most recent employee survey indicated employees are also seeing the results of our work to enhance safety.
Clearly, there is more to do and safety remains at the front of our minds.
Beyond safety, we are also committed to high ethical standards and legal compliance in all aspects of our business.
We have continued to enhance and improve compliance programmes in areas such as our integrated supply and trading function.
Driving In last years Annual Review I described the forward agenda we were pursuing to close the competitive gap by making BP a simpler and forward more ef cient organization.
Throughout 2008 we maintained our focus on reducing cost and complexity, and embedding a strong performance Tony Hayward Group Chief Executive culture throughout the group.
We achieved success 24 February 2009 on both counts.
Layers of management have been removed, there is accountability for performance Highlights at all levels and we have created a strong focus Progress with safe and reliable operations.
Major projects delivered and revenues restored.
Complexity and costs being reduced.
How have these priorities affected your people?
First, I would like to thank our employees for the part they have played in turning around BPs In a year that will be remembered for extremely volatile performance.
Their determination and commitment oil prices and exceptional stock market turbulence, BP have been truly remarkable and we have come a long delivered an excellent set of results.
We made good way in a short time.
At the same time, we continue to progress on achieving safe and reliable operations, and provide excellent support for employees.
From learning delivered strong operational momentum that reduced and development to diversity and inclusion, we are the performance gap with our competitors.
enabling people to achieve sustained high performance.
During the year we bene ted from record Less complexity means we can now clearly identify high oil prices.
Replacement cost pro t for the year top performers both businesses and individuals was a record $25.6 billion, with a return on average and reward them appropriately.
We outperformed How did Exploration and Production perform?
the FTSE 100 by 17% and our ADSs outperformed It was an excellent year, with major projects such the S&P 500 index of large cap US by 2%.
as Thunder Horse in the Gulf of Mexico and Deepwater Gunashli in Azerbaijan coming onstream.
That, together At the start of the year what priorities with safe and reliable performance from our existing did you set out for BP?
operations, contributed to underlying production Safety, people and performance, and these remain growth in contrast to the falling output of our major our priorities.
Our number one priority was to do competitors and more than compensated for the everything possible to achieve safe, compliant and effects of Hurricanes Ike and Gustav and other reliable operations.
Rigorous cost control and ef ciency Good policies and processes are essential but, offset the signi cant cost in ation that hit our sector.
ultimately, safety is about how people think and act.
The start of production at Thunder Horse was an Thats critical at the front line but it is also true for the important milestone in terms of recovery and renewal.
Safety must inform every decision and It was also a good year for exploration with major new every action.
The BP operating management system discoveries in Algeria, Angola, Egypt and the Gulf of OMS turns the principle of safe and reliable operations Mexico.
We also gained new access to oil sands in into reality by governing how every BP project, site, Canada and shale gas in the US, as well as gaining operation and facility is managed.
licences to explore in the Canadian Arctic.
2008 was our 15th consecutive year of delivering reported reserves replacement of more than 100%.
4 exploration, appraisal, development and the turnaround in Re ning and Marketing, we also invested $1.4 billion in alternative forms of energy such as wind, solar, biofuels and carbon capture and storage CCS.
Looking ahead, on the issue of greenhouse gas GHG emissions, we believe legislation is required to ensure that a cost of carbon is included in the price of everything.
This would enable companies such as BP to make even greater investments in low-carbon energy.
We favour cap-and-trade as it provides environmental certainty based on an absolute emissions cap.
A global system is the ultimate objective, but progress must be made at national and regional levels first.
It is getting tougher for BP and others to access new resources: do international oil companies really have a sustainable future?
International oil companies thrive at the frontiers of the energy industry taking on challenges others are either unwilling or unable to address.
BP continues to agree signi cant new deals, from oil sands to the Beaufort Sea in Canada as well as making new discoveries in Algeria, Angola, Egypt and the Gulf of Mexico.
We have also resolved the dispute with our TNK-BP joint venture partners in Russia.
We secure these agreements because we can build enduring relationships and have technical capabilities and experience distinct in our industry.
Research and technology play a vital role here.
By improving the ef ciency of fossil fuel recovery and How far has Re ning and Marketing November 2008 discovery, promoting fuel conversion and developing addressed its most critical problems?
Tony Hayward low-carbon alternatives, we are helping to provide discusses operating We made good progress on achieving safe, compliant affordable, sustainable energy for today and tomorrow.
priorities with and reliable operations.
We improved re ning availability employees at the on an annualized basis from 83% to 89% and restored BP Carson re nery, What is the plan for Alternative Energy: full economic capability at the Texas City and Whiting California, US.
what role will it play in BPs portfolio?
In our fuels value chains we are achieving With both energy demand and carbon emissions rising, greater integration between re neries, terminals, the world needs every sustainable, affordable energy pipelines and retail sites.
The international businesses, source available.
We invest a signi cant amount in which include lubricants, petrochemicals, aviation alternative energy technology compared with our peers and marine fuels and lique ed petroleum gas, have and, for us, the key question is which technologies performed well.
We have also started to address will make the greatest contribution to meeting energy overhead cost by reducing senior level headcount and demand while providing BP with strong growth by simplifying the marketing footprint.
In 2008 we prioritized areas with signi cant driving greater consistency and ef ciency through long-term growth potential wind, solar, biofuels and the business to capitalize on the leadership positions CCS and directed the majority of our $1.4 billion we enjoy in the most valuable markets.
investment in the year to these areas.
How is BP responding to the twin challenges Is BP entering its centenary year in of energy security and climate change?
Our job is to help meet the worlds energy needs On the basis of our 2008 performance, I believe we today, invest in the next generation of energy sources can declare that BP is back.
Clearly, however, we and support the transition to a low-carbon economy.
must continue to adjust to market conditions.
Oil and Alternative energy production is growing but currently gas prices go up and down: our job is to ensure we represents just 2% of global energy production, so the can compete and thrive through every part of the cycle, world will need fossil fuels for years to come even something weve been doing for 100 years.
Despite if demand slows and we will play an important role the challenges ahead, I am con dent that we now by meeting this need while developing options for have the positive momentum and exibility required the future.
to achieve success as we begin our next century.
In 2008 we responded to these challenges by a investing nearly $22 billion in our businesses an increase of 13% on 2007.
Along with supporting our work on Speeches by Tony Hayward bp.
com speeches a Excluding acquisitions and asset exchanges and excluding the accounting for our transactions with Husky Energy Inc. and Chesapeake Energy Corporation.
5 BP Annual Review 2008 Our market Here we look at the key issues affecting the energy market Energy for a and BP during a turbulent year for the world economy.
fast-moving world Increasing demand World energy consumption billion tonnes of oil equivalent World primary energy consumption increased by 2.4% Coal in 2007, the fifth consecutive year of above-average Hydroelectricity 12 growth.
Under a reference case scenario, world energy Nuclear energy demand could be 45% higher by 2030 than it is today Natural gas 11 Oil and non-OECD countries are expected to contribute 10 nearly 90% of total world energy demand growth, according to International Energy Agency IEA estimates.
9 Fossil fuels are expected to provide the bulk of primary 8 energy to 2030: however, renewables are expected 7 to grow the fastest over this period.
Two factors are driving these gures population growth and mass 6 industrialization in emerging economies.
Estimates 5 suggest the global population will increase from todays level of 6.7 billion to nine billion by 2050, and in China, 4 India and other developing nations hundreds of millions 3 of people are expected to move from a rural to an urban 2 way of life.
While short-term economic conditions may weaken global demand for primary energy temporarily, 1 the long-term outlook remains one of substantial, 02 03 04 05 06 07 sustained growth.
Source: BP Statistical Review of World Energy June 2008.
Global reserves Volatile prices The idea that the world has reached or passed the point of peak oil has become commonplace, yet there are more than enough 2008 saw volatile energy price movements.
Crude oil prices rose resources to meet oil demand for decades.
At current consumption to record highs dated Brent reached $144.22 per barrel on 3 July.
rates, global proved reserves are estimated to provide around 40 years of oil, 60 years of natural gas and 130 years of coal.
Following this mid-year peak, the unsettled financial markets and Improved recovery factors and new discoveries have resulted in wider economic uncertainty saw the price drop back to $36.55 increased proved oil reserves in 22 of the past 25 years, growing at the end of the year.
This volatility was also mirrored in the gas in aggregate by more than 70% over that period.
To meet demand, a market, with the average US natural gas price for 2008 increasing government, energy companies and industry must work together to bring further reserves of oil and gas to market.
This requires by 32% to $9.04 per million British thermal units mmBtu, with a companies such as BP to operate at the frontiers, as many mid-year peak of $13.11 mmBtu, but by the end of the year it had resources are to be found in challenging environments from the fallen to $6.90 mmBtu from the mid-year high.
deserts of the Middle East and North Africa to the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico, West Africa and Brazil to the Alaskan and a Henry Hub First of Month Index.
Crude oil and gas prices Global proved oil reserves at end 2007 $ per barrel of oil equivalent billion barrels 150 Dated Brent oil price 40.8 $144.22 Henry Hub gas price The record high First of Month Index for dated Brent 69.3 crude oil on 3 July.
120 111.2 117.5 90 143.7 755.3 60 Asia Pacific North America South and Central America Africa Europe and Eurasia 30 Middle East Source: BP Statistical Review of World Energy June 2008.
Energy diversity All available primary energy sources will be needed to address the twin challenges of energy security and climate change.
In the medium term, there is no economically viable substitute for oil in the transportation sector at scale.
Coal will provide a secure energy source for many consuming countries but it is also a major source of GHG emissions.
Gas produces lower emissions than coal, but gas reserves are concentrated in a few countries.
Alternatives such as wind, solar and biofuels are growing fast, but these renewable sources, together with geothermal energy, account for just 2% of current primary energy supply.
Conservation in all sectors can help reduce future energy demand.
Energy security Global energy demand by type Around 70% of the worlds proved oil reserves are located in just million tonnes of oil equivalent seven countries and 55% of the worlds proved gas reserves are found in three countries.
While current levels of demand are being 0 4000 8000 12000 16000 20000 met, 2008 saw ongoing anxieties around the potential effects of political instability in key energy producing regions.
This eased as 1990 OPEC spare capacity increased and prices fell in the second half of the year, although concerns remain that accidents or natural events 2005 could disrupt production and distribution.
Individual consuming countries continue to face speci c energy security issues related 2015 to cost, geography and political relationships with producers.
2030 How BP is responding Read about our strategy Coal on pages 10-11.
Oil Gas BP Statistical Review of World Energy Nuclear bp.
com statisticalreview Biomass and waste Hydro Other renewables 7 Source: Adapted from World Energy Outlook 2008.
BP Annual Review 2008 Our market Investment and innovation Climate concern a Investment of more than $26 trillion is estimated to be required between now and 2030 to meet Fossil fuels will play an invaluable role in supplying the heat, light future energy demand about $13 trillion in oil and mobility required by a growing population.
But, while demand and gas production alone.
While this appears for energy grows, there is suf cient evidence that human activity to be a daunting gure, many oil and gas companies and global warming are connected, particularly that the use of are already spending at a pace consistent with fossil fuels contributes about 60% of all GHG emissions.
There is meeting this requirement.
A signi cant proportion of investments will be required for the development, broad consensus that precautionary action is necessary to reverse application and implementation of technologies this growth and stabilize atmospheric concentrations of GHG and know-how the new equipment, methods emissions.
In order to achieve this goal, the world will have to and skills needed to address increasingly decarbonize future energy supplies using a variety of options demanding engineering and technical issues.
Innovation will play an essential role in enabling energy conservation, nuclear power and renewables such as energy companies to nd reserves, get more wind, solar, biofuels and CCS.
If the costs of GHG emissions were from each new eld, maximize the contribution included in the price we pay for everyday activities from travelling from mature assets and enhance the way we by train to switching on lights consumer behaviour would begin transport, re ne and distribute products.
Market-based mechanisms such as cap-and-trade are a Adapted from World Energy Outlook 2008. necessary to ensure that a cap is placed on GHG emissions and OECD IEA 2008. cost-ef cient methods are used to reduce them.
There is also a need for transitional incentives to bring forward the development and deployment of low-carbon technologies, as some of these Capability gap will initially require a higher carbon price than that created by a cap-and-trade system.
Capability is one of the greatest issues facing the energy industry.
Put simply, there is a shortage of scientists and engineers, with many of the quali ed people currently in the industry nearing retirement and too few graduates having quali cations relevant to Range of carbon dioxide emission our sector.
The industry must attract, inspire and develop new generations of energy experts reduction trajectories if it is to meet the challenge of turning resources gigatonnes into reserves and reserves into energy.
45 IEA reference scenario 550 parts per million policy scenario 450 parts per million policy scenario 40 35 30 25 20 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 Addressing the capability gap bp.
com ourpeople Source: Adapted from World Energy Outlook 2008.
8 Safety first International oil companies must operate in tough conditions, engage with complex technical challenges and address signi cant risk while putting safety first at all times.
Our employees, investors, regulators and government partners expect us to put safety above all other concerns and, at BP, safety remains our number one priority.
Industry lost-time injury frequency per 200,000 work-hours 0.50 Total workforce employees and contractors 0.40 0.30 0.20 0.10 0.00 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Source: International Association of Oil and Gas Producers OGP Safety Performance Indicators 2007 data.
Our safety performance Read about our key measures of progress on pages 12-13.
9 BP Annual Review 2008 Our strategy To sustain and build on the momentum created by our forward agenda, we intend to re-invest competitively in Exploration Building and Production to secure and grow highquality oil and gas resources.
We intend and sustaining to continue to drive renewal through new access and exploration, but also through targeted acquisition and a renewed focus momentum on increasing recovery from elds in which we already operate.
We expect Exploration and Production to be our core vehicle for growth.
We expect to make investments across the full life cycle of our assets with an increased emphasis on technology as a source of productivity, access and competitive advantage.
We expect to strengthen our position further by securing new access and achieving Closing the competitive gap exploration success.
BP has a clear strategy that In Re ning and Marketing, we Competitive performance gap reduced.
addresses the groups current expect to continue building our business Progress with safe and reliable operations.
and future opportunities and around advantaged assets in material and Strong commitment to continuous improvement signi cant energy markets.
At the heart of this established.
continue investing in improving the safety strategy sit our three priorities and reliability of our operations.
Additionally, Delivery against our forward agenda, safety, people and performance.
we intend to drive further operational which we outlined in 2007, has resulted performance and productivity by investing Here we describe our approach in BP making signi cant progress towards in the upgrade of manufacturing capabilities and outline the actions we are closing the competitive performance gap within our integrated fuels value chains.
Actions taken since taking to transform strategy We also intend to invest selectively in the end of 2007 to restore revenues and international businesses, including lubricants into value.
reduce complexity and costs have created and petrochemicals, where we believe there operational momentum through 2008: is the potential to deliver strong returns.
their full financial impact is expected to In our Alternative Energy business, be realized from 2009. we are creating long-term options for the Our forward agenda focus on future in new energy technology and safety, people and performance is paying low-carbon energy businesses.
BP is in the leading group for safety will focus activity on wind, solar, biofuels performance in the industry, we have more and CCS as sources of energy and resource of the right people in the right place to make diversi cation and to create and grow value a difference and we are achieving real for BP.
performance momentum in our operations.
Our present and future is dependent A commitment to continuous improvement on our people and technology.
We intend will be the enduring legacy of the first phase to invest to build capability in our business, of our forward agenda.
ensuring we have the talent and experience required to meet all our objectives.
We also Sustaining momentum and growth intend to invest in technology to support the delivery of competitive business performance Safety and integrity remain first priority.
Exploration and Production to be core vehicle for growth.
BP is committed to exploring, More investment in availability and developing and producing more fossil fuel integrity in Re ning and Marketing.
resources because the world needs them: Focused investment in low-carbon manufacturing, processing and delivering energy businesses.
better and more advanced products: and enabling the material transition to a lower Looking forward, our strategy is to create carbon future.
We will continue to do this by operating safely, reliably and in value for shareholders by investing to deliver growth in our Exploration and Production compliance with the law.
And we will run our business within the discipline business, together with high-quality earnings and returns throughout our operations.
Our first priority continues to be to ensure the safety and integrity of our operations.
Angola 3 BP employees arrive safely at the Greater Plutonio offshore oating, production, storage and of oading vessel.
We expect to have invested more than $15 billion in our Angolan business by 2010.
Brazil Testing biofuels at one of Tropical BioEnergia S. A. s laboratories.
BP acquired a 50% stake in the company in 2008.
US Safety inspection work at our Toledo, Ohio, re nery.
We are implementing our operating management system at every BP site worldwide.
How we create value Powerful partnerships Excellence in A highly diverse grounded in mutual project delivery energy portfolio, advantage.
and the integration pioneering energy of technology.
11 BP Annual Review 2008 Our performance Progress in 2008 Personal safety Full personal safety equipment in use by a BP employee at our re nery in Castelln, Spain.
Safety Personal safety recordable Process safety Environment greenhouse injury frequency oil spills gas emissions million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent 0.35 08 08 335 08 61.4 0.50 0.35 07 07 340 07 63.5 0.59 0.40 06 a 06 417 06 64.4 0.55 Employees Contractors Recordable injury frequency measures All spills of hydrocarbon greater than GHG emissions are emissions of the number of reported work-related or equal to one barrel 159 litres, CO2 and methane in million tonnes incidents that result in a fatality or 42 US gallons.
This is BPs share injury apart from minor first aid cases of direct GHG emissions, representing per 200,000 hours worked.
all consolidated subsidiaries and BPs share of equity-accounted entities a 2006 contractor data corrected from except TNK-BP.
People a a Employee satisfaction % Number of employees Diversity and inclusion % 14 08 59 08 08 92,000 19 b 16 06 66 07 07 98,100 19 17 04 64 06 97,000 06 20 Women Non-UK US The overall Employee Satisfaction Employees includes all individuals The percentage of women and Index comprises 10 key questions that who have a contract of employment individuals from countries other provide insight into levels of employee with a BP group entity.
than the UK and US among BPs satisfaction across a range of topics, top 583 leaders 2007 624, 2006 625. a As at 31 December.
The People Assurance Survey, conducted in 2004 and 2006, used a census methodology and targeted the entire BP employee population.
Based on the same set of questions, the Pulse Plus Survey, in 2008, adopted a sample-based approach, which achieved a representative view of BP.
Here we present our key measures of progress in the three priority areas of safety, people and performance.
While the measures we use to chart financial performance are well established, we continue to evolve safety and people measures to further enhance our reporting.
Performance Production thousand barrels Reserves replacement Re ning availability % Operating cash ow $ billion a of oil equivalent per day ratio % b 08 3,838 08 121 08 89 08 38.1 07 3,818 07 112 07 83 07 24.7 06 3,926 06 113 06 83 06 28.2 Crude oil, natural gas liquids NGLs Proved reserves replacement ratio also Re ning availability represents Solomon Operating cash ow is net cash and natural gas produced from known as the production replacement Associates operational availability, which ow provided by operating activities, subsidiaries and equity-accounted ratio is the extent to which production is fide ned as the percentage of the year from the group cash ow statement.
Converted to barrels of is replaced by proved reserves additions.
that a unit is available for processing after Operating activities are the principal oil equivalent boe at 1 barrel of The ratio is expressed in oil equivalent subtracting the annualized time lost due revenue-producing activities of the NGL 1boe and 5,800 standard terms and includes changes resulting to turnaround activity and all planned group and other activities that are cubic feet of natural gas 1boe.
from revisions to previous estimates, mechanical, process and regulatory not investing or nancing activities.
improved recovery and extensions maintenance downtime.
a Combined basis of subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities, excluding acquisitions and disposals.
b See page 16, footnote c. Replacement cost pro t Dividends paid per Total shareholder return % per ordinary share cents ordinary share 55.05 -34.5 08 136.20 08 08 29.387 -15.1 42.30 14.0 07 95.85 07 07 20.995 7.0 38.40 4.7 06 110.95 06 06 21.104 -4.6 Cents ADS basis Pence Ordinary share basis Replacement cost pro t re ects the The total dividend per share paid to Total shareholder return represents Financial performance in detail replacement cost of supplies.
It is ordinary shareholders in the year.
the change in value of a shareholding See pages 30-35. arrived at by excluding from pro t over a calendar year, assuming that inventory holding gains and losses dividends are re-invested to purchase Nonfinancial performance in detail and their associated tax effect.
additional shares at the closing price bp.
com sustainability See footnotes a and b on inside applicable on the ex-dividend date.
13 Exploration and Production Results $ million 08 38,308 07 27,602 Replacement cost pro t before interest and tax is our key measure of pro tability.
The improvement in 2008, compared with 2007, was primarily driven by high oil and gas prices during the year and supported by strong underlying production growth and cost ef ciency.
This result was the highest ever achieved by our business.
At the frontiers 14 BP Annual Review 2008 Exploration and Production Exploration and Production delivered an excellent performance in 2008 driven by underlying production growth and strong cost management.
Highlights Replacement cost pro t before interest and tax up 39%.
Fifteenth consecutive year of reported reserves replacement of more than 100%.
Thunder Horse and eight other major projects brought onstream.
BPs Exploration and Production business nds, produces and transports oil and gas to market.
We operate in 29 countries and employ more than 20,000 people.
Our strategy is to invest to grow production ef ciently by: Focusing on accessing, nding and developing the largest elds in the worlds most proli c hydrocarbon basins.
Building leadership positions in these areas.
Using technology to improve productivity and support new access.
Managing the decline of existing producing assets.
Maintaining our focus on safety Safety, both personal and process, remains our highest priority.
2008 was one of our best ever years for personal safety, with our performance expected to remain among the best in the industry.
During the year we began migrating to the new BP OMS, which has an increased focus on process safety and continuous improvement.
The majority of our operations in North America Gas, the Gulf of Mexico, Colombia and the Endicott eld in Alaska all completed the migration to the OMS in 2008.
During the year Hurricanes Ike and Gustav caused disruption to our Gulf of Mexico operations.
Ike was particularly destructive, but our teams responded rapidly, bringing all BP-operated production back online within 41 days of the storm passing.
Alaska E&P in more detail bp.
com whatwedo 250 miles north of the Arctic Circle, our Endicott eld was the worlds first offshore Arctic oil eld.
15 While higher oil and gas prices increased revenues BP Annual Review 2008 they also drove activity growth in the oil and gas sector.
Exploration and Production This created higher demand for oil eld goods and services, generating signi cant cost in ation.
We were not immune from this but mitigated the impact of in ation through strong cost management and This was extraordinary given that more than 8,000 a focus on simpli cation and ef ciency.
We held of our BP group employees were affected personally production costs essentially at from 2007 to 2008, by hurricane damage.
We supported employees signi cantly below the 20% annual cost growth through this time and provided more than $17 million between 2004 and 2007 and below sector in ation.
to assist with relief and recovery efforts for the In 2008 we extended our track record of wider community.
delivering reported reserves replacement of more than 100% by another year.
We have a strong portfolio of Our financial performance in 2008 assets and a clear strategy.
Our focus on simpli cation We delivered a strong performance in 2008, with and ef ciency is removing unnecessary cost.
We are replacement cost pro t before interest and tax of well placed to respond quickly to changing market $38 billion a record for our business and a 39% conditions and new opportunities.
This result was primarily driven by higher oil and gas realizations, supported by Growing our resource base a strong underlying production growth of 5% and cost Our oil and gas resource base provides the foundation ef ciency.
In 2008 production from our established for future growth.
We continue to drive renewal through centres including the North Sea, Alaska, North America new access, exploration, targeted acquisitions and Gas and Trinidad & Tobago was on plan and we had a renewed focus on increasing resources from elds production growth from nine new projects, including we currently operate.
Thunder Horse in the Gulf of Mexico and Deepwater Each year we set out to replace more reserves Gunashli in Azerbaijan.
of oil and gas than we produced in the previous 12 months.
2008 was the 15th consecutive year we achieved this, delivering reported reserves replacement of more than 100%.
In 2008 our exploration track record continued a Underlying production growth excludes the impact of lower with one of our best years this decade for new entitlement in our production-sharing agreements, driven by higher oil and gas prices.
We were also successful in acquiring new resources for example, the attractive gas shale resources from Chesapeake Energy Corporation providing the potential for further growth of our North America Gas business.
Our ability to get more from elds is enormously b c Total net proved reserves 2008 valuable.
By increasing the overall recovery rate by 1%, million barrels of oil equivalent we believe we can add two billion boe to our reserves.
To put that in context, when we started production at 10,353 the Prudhoe Bay eld in Alaska the recovery rate was expected to reach 40%.
Using new technologies we have increased this to 60%.
We now believe 70% is possible.
World-class start-ups In 2008 we extended our track record of major project start-ups, with nine new major projects coming onstream.
In the Gulf of Mexico production started at the Thunder Horse eld BP 75% and operator, with four wells in operation by the end of the year, producing around 200,000boe d gross.
We are now the largest producer in the Gulf of Mexico.
7,794 d Liquids In the Azerbaijan sector of the Caspian Sea Natural gas we started oil production on our Deepwater Gunashli platform.
Located in 175 metres of water, this platform 2008 was our 15th completes the third phase of development of the consecutive year of delivering reported  eld.
reserves replacement Other signi cant successes in 2008 included of more than 100%.
the start of oil and gas production at the Saqqara and Taurt elds in Egypt.
Taurt is a particularly important b Combined basis of subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities, on a basis milestone the first in a series of planned subsea consistent with general industry practice.
Under current SEC rules, BPs proved reserves estimates are based on prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made.
There was a rapid and substantial decline in oil prices in the fourth quarter of 2008 that was not matched by a similar reduction in operating costs by the end of the year.
BP does not expect that these economic conditions will continue.
However, our 2008 reserves are calculated on the basis of operating activities that would be undertaken were year-end prices and costs to persist.
d Crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
16 Andy Inglis Chief Executive, Exploration and Production We had an outstanding year in 2008, safely increasing production and pro tability and continuing to grow our resource base for the future.
Safety culture Safety is our top priority.
While plan focused on developing safety leaders, workforce communication, improved systems and processes are vital, another factor is even more standard implementation and continuous learning.
At bpTT, the important when it comes to safe and reliable operations people.
days away from work case injury frequency per 200,000 work-hours We continue to work to establish a strong safety culture, developing was reduced from 0.12 in 2003 to zero in 2008 while the recordable deep knowledge within every employee and sharing learning.
injury frequency more than halved in the same period.
This approach has been successful in building a world-class safety culture.
In BP Trinidad & Tobago bpTT, for example, the team has delivered an outstanding improvement in personal safety performance through the development of a comprehensive multi-year safety Thunder Horse breaks Exploration discoveries in 2008 new ground On 14 June 2008 the worlds largest oating platform processed oil for the first time.
Within 48 hours exportUK quality oil and gas were being transported to shore 150 miles away through the largest capacity deepwater pipeline system yet built.
This start to production is tting Algeria Egypt Gulf of Mexico for a project that has gone beyond established industry limits and recovered from serious setbacks.
In technical terms, Thunder Horse has broken new ground literally.
With the seabed one mile below the ocean surface, the Angola team drilled through three further miles of mud, rock and salt to access hydrocarbons.
Reservoir pressures above 1,200 bar and temperatures up to 135 degrees Celcius have created enormous demands on equipment, Algeria: Tin Zaouatene-1 Angola: Dione but the Thunder Horse team succeeded in bringing Egypt: Satis four wells onstream to ramp up production to around Gulf of Mexico: Kodiak, Freedom 200,000boe d by the end of the year.
Getting to this UK: Kinnoull, South West Foinaven point required more than 10 million work-hours, yet the project had just one day away from work case injury a remarkable record.
2008 was an excellent year for exploration.
BP participated in three of the 14 major discoveries reported globally in 2008, a leading position among our international oil company competitors.
We strengthened our position in a number of our core growth areas, including the Gulf of Mexico, Egypt and Angola.
Exploration success also played a signi cant role in the renewal of our more mature areas, with two discoveries in the UK North Sea.
Progressing these discoveries into projects and then start-ups will enable us to extend our track record of reserves replacement.
17 BP Annual Review 2008 Developing agship technologies Exploration and Production Developing and applying new technology is the key to increasing the overall recovery factor from our resource base.
Technology also allows us to make distinctive offers when bidding for new access opportunities.
Since 2006 we have increased investment in research and development and, in 2008, we went further, Seeing the future analyzing our portfolio to nd new ways to make technology count.
We identi ed 10 agship technologies, Tapped into the ground by hand, each with the potential to add more than one billion boe geophones record the re ected of additional reserves, and we are prioritizing investment sound waves sent out by vibrator in these areas.
These agship technologies three of trucks, helping to build up an which we discuss in more detail on these pages cover image of the gas reservoir.
every stage in the exploration and production process, from seismic imaging to advanced control systems.
Investing in people While many industry observers have chosen to focus on peak oil, we believe a more important issue has been overlooked peak capability.
The world has enough resources to meet demand for decades, but the industry must attract and develop more engineers, geoscientists and other experts if it is to meet the challenges of energy demand and sustainability.
We are addressing this by building our human capability through recruitment and development.
Our three-year graduate development programme currently has 1,200 participants from all over the world, and we are implementing an enhanced technical learning programme across BP.
Many governments expect greater local participation in the development of their countrys resources and we have speci c programmes to build local capability.
By 2020 more than half our operations are expected to be in non-OECD countries and we see this as an opportunity to develop a new generation of experts and skilled employees.
Looking ahead Our priorities remain the same safety, people and performance, focusing on the delivery of safe, reliable In the vast Omani desert, a 40-tonne truck lifts and ef cient operations while maintaining exibility so we can respond to oil price volatility.
itself from the ground, shakes and vibrates In 2009 we will aim to use the operational vigorously for eight seconds, then sets itself momentum generated in 2008 to continue to drive down and moves on.
ef ciency into the cost base while ensuring we maintain our priorities of safe and reliable operations, and build capability for the future.
We intend to retain our rigour At exactly the same time, an identical Equally impressive innovation can be around capital investment, in particular pacing our scene takes place just a few kilometres seen in our offshore positions around away.
This is distance-separated the world, where we are gaining development to take advantage of a fide ationary simultaneous sweeping one of high resolution data from beneath cost base and supporting our strategy of growing several BP innovations revolutionizing thousands of feet of salt, and the upstream.
Our portfolio of assets is strong and the quality of data gained from seismic processing the information through well positioned to compete and grow in a range of surveys.
In this case, the trucks are unique new systems developed by helping to produce some of the most our teams.
This is seismic surveying external conditions.
accurate three-dimensional images as a competitive advantage.
of gas reservoirs ever seen.
And this method is proving cheaper and faster with the Oman team surveying Flagship 2 2,700km in the time conventional technology 2 methods would require for 800km.
18 Creating an ACE environment Flagship technology In a BP of ce, a team scrutinizes fast-changing numbers, colours and images on a wall of screens.
They discuss the picture unfolding before them and put into play a series of actions that in a matter of seconds will adjust drilling operations beneath the seabed many kilometres offshore.
This is a BP Advanced Collaborative Environment ACE, one of seven global centres supporting our operations around the world where drilling, reservoir and process engineers analyze real-time data from elds and optimize production operations.
The ACE is part of our FieldoftheFuture programme, which is reducing the need to visit remote sites, improving the data and insight we gather and increasing our speed of response to changing conditions making us more ef cient.
Unconventional gas, Projected demand for gas in North America unconventional growth % production 100 Flagship Shale technology 80 Demand for gas is growing and unconventional gas Tight will be essential in meeting future needs.
Around 40% of the gas we produce is unconventional and 60 that gure is set to increase.
But what exactly is CBM unconventional gas?
It is gas that is dif cult to nd, 40 produce and transport.
It might sit in ne-grained shale basins, in hard tight rock, in coalbed seams, Conventional in remote locations, or deep underground.
And this 20 is why innovation is vital.
Using new technologies, BP has drilled in 17 unconventional coalbed methane 0 CBM basins across the world, including some of 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 the largest reservoirs in North America.
By applying advanced drilling technologies we now produce more Source: Adapted from World Energy Outlook 2008. than 1% of the US domestic gas supply from the OECD IEA 2008.
19 Re ning and Marketing Results $ million 08 4,176 07 2,621 In 2008 our replacement cost pro t before interest and tax was signi cantly affected by adverse market conditions.
However, the marked improvement in our performance considerably mitigated these impacts.
Restoring revenues, transforming performance 20 BP Annual Review 2008 Re ning and Marketing 2008 was a year of sustained recovery and renewal for Re ning and Marketing.
We continued our major focus on safe, reliable operations and saw the first signi cant bene ts of having key re neries back in full operation.
We simpli ed the business structure and geographical footprint, which led to signi cant cost improvement and greater effectiveness in the marketing businesses.
Highlights Re ning availability six percentage points higher.
Full capacity restored at Texas City and Whiting re neries.
Missing revenues restored, pro ts improved.
Six integrated fuels value chains established.
Simpli ed and focused marketing footprint.
The role of BPs Re ning and Marketing business is to manufacture and supply more ef cient products and services to our customers.
Our purpose is as follows: We are the product and service-led arm of BP, focused on fuels, lubricants, petrochemicals products and related services.
We aim to be excellent in the markets we choose to be in those that allow BP to serve the major energy markets of the world.
We are in pursuit of competitive returns and enduring growth, as we serve customers and promote BP and our brands.
Our products represent quality based on safe and reliable manufacturing operations and technology.
Our organization comprises fuels value chains and international businesses.
As the markets for our main fuels products are regional, we integrate our re ning, logistics, marketing, supply and trading businesses into an integrated fuels value chain in each key region.
This model enables us to create greater value from our re neries, terminals, pipelines and retail sites.
Texas City R&M in more detail bp.
com whatwedo We have made fundamental improvements to our safety processes and to reliability at our Texas City re nery, where full economic capability was restored by the end of the year.
21 Achieving safe and reliable operations BP Annual Review 2008 Safety, both process and personal, remains our top Re ning and Marketing priority.
In addition to the global implementation of the OMS, in our US re neries we continue to implement the recommendations from the BP US Re neries Independent Safety Review Panel.
We have worked closely with the independent expert, L Duane Wilson.
Our international businesses include lubricants, petrochemicals, aviation and marine fuels and lique ed The number of major incidents associated with integrity management has reduced by 90% since 2005.
Each of these businesses is competitively advantaged in its chosen markets.
Such advantage is also reduced the number of oil spills by 60% and the recordable injury rate by more than 57% since 1999. derived from several factors, including the proximity of manufacturing and logistics assets to the market, Regrettably, in 2008 there were four workforce fatalities associated with our operations, one of which was a the quality of our physical assets, operational and supply chain ef ciency, technology advantage and the process safety incident.
During 2008 we also started migrating to the Restoring and improving earnings momentum In 2008 we saw the first substantial bene ts of new BP OMS, with an increased focus on process safety and continuous improvement.
At the end of the our operational improvements.
The Whiting re nery was restored to its full clean fuel capability of year two of our petrochemicals plants in US and two of our re neries in Europe were operating under 360,000 barrels per day b d in March 2008.
Texas City was also restored to full economic capability by the end the OMS.
In total, our 17 re neries worldwide, including those partially owned, achieved throughputs of Our financial performance in 2008 Our 2008 replacement cost pro t before interest and 2,155,000b d on average, a 5% increase on 2007 after adjusting for net loss of throughput from tax was $4.2 billion, which compares with $2.6 billion in 2007.
We achieved a strong performance despite previous disposals and acquisitions.
The performance of the Texas City re nery market conditions particularly lower re ning margins in the US, adverse foreign exchange effects and the was impacted by Hurricane Ike in September, which meant we had to shut down the re nery in advance as adverse impact of prior-month pricing of domestic pipeline barrels for our US re ning system which a precautionary measure, along with other re neries in the area.
A terri c response from employees helped impacted our results signi cantly.
This demonstrates the bene ts of the fundamental improvements we are to minimize disruption, with crude processing restored in seven days and full operations restored within three making across the business, including the measures we have taken to restore the availability of our re ning weeks.
This is also a re ection of the improvements we have made to our assets at Texas City during the system, reduce costs and simplify the organization.
We are working to close the performance past few years.
gap with our competitors by 2010.
Our goals to achieve this are: Delivering sustainable competitive returns and cash ows Achieving safe and reliable operations.
Restoring and improving earnings momentum.
Maximizing our value through integration and simpli cation in our fuels value chains Delivering sustainable competitive returns and cash ows.
In 2008 we fully integrated our re ning, logistics, marketing, supply and trading businesses, establishing six re ning-to-marketing integrated fuels value chain businesses focused on re ning and selling ground transportation fuels in each region.
These integrated businesses have strong links to our convenience retail Re ning throughput activities and a clear view of local market dynamics, the competitive landscape and BPs capabilities in the region, helping us to make effective business decisions.
2.2 This has enabled us to simplify internal interfaces, optimize margins, reduce overhead costs and drive continuous improvement.
million During the year we continued the implementation barrels per day of our ampm convenience retail franchise model in the US, which we expect to provide reliable long-term sales growth for our re nery systems, together with improved supply and trading performance, reduced costs and lower levels of capital investment.
In Europe we are one of the largest forecourt convenience retailers, In 2008 we increased with about 2,500 shops in 10 countries.
We are growing our re ning throughput our food-on-the-go and fresh grocery services through by 28,000 barrels per BP-owned brands and partnerships with leading retailers day on average.
Simplifying our businesses and pursuing growth opportunities in our international businesses Our international businesses leverage our strong market positions, proprietary technology and leading brands to 22 deliver distinctive performance.
Iain Conn Chief Executive, Re ning and Marketing Through the commitment of our employees, we have made good progress on safety, restored missing revenues and become leaner, tter and more competitive.
Re ning availability % 08 89 07 83 Re ning availability measures the readiness of our re neries to re ne crude oil into fuels.
Higher availability means we can capture margins effectively.
After Ike When we heard Hurricane Ike was integrity management and rebuilding on its way, we had to shut our Texas since 2005.
Three weeks after the City re nery, leaving just 60 of shutdown, we had more units 6,000 employees and contractors running than before Ike appeared on site to manage the facility while a tremendous performance.
Our sheltering in a hurricane-resistant humanitarian support to the affected building.
Despite losing all steam, areas was acknowledged as having power and water, and having to made a signi cant contribution to repair damage to several units, helping local communities get back the team supported by returning to normal.
Castrol gains a sporting edge employees restored operations In 2008 Castrol launched Edge Sport and in doing so and restarted crude oil processing rede ned performance in the synthetics category.
within seven days and restored The new product is tested to beat benchmark full operations within three weeks.
synthetic oils in extremes and is targeted towards The speed of the recovery is demanding automotive enthusiasts who only want the best for their cars.
Also during the year Castrol testament to the skill and followed its successful sponsorship of UEFA Euro commitment of employees at 2008 by signing up to sponsor the 2010 and 2014 Texas City, and it underlines the FIFA World Cup competitions, extending its links value of our investment in training, with football to a global level.
It is the biggest sponsorship in BPs 100-year history.
Fighting back against Ike See issue 4 of BP Magazine at bp.
com bpmagazine 23 Our lubricants business manufactures and markets BP Annual Review 2008 lubricants products and related services directly to Re ning and Marketing customers and end-consumers in around 50 countries.
In 2008 we focused on enhancing our customer relationships and brand distinctiveness, together with driving simpli cation and ef ciency.
In South America, for example, we simpli ed our footprint by using carefully Up and running with OMS selected national distributors.
This has enabled us to maintain a strong brand presence in these markets while investing more time and capital in our core markets.
2008 was a tough year for the aviation industry but, in Air BP, we simpli ed our footprint by exiting non-core countries, leading to a reduction in working capital and improved returns on operating capital employed.
During 2008 the environment in which our petrochemicals businesses operate became more challenging as deterioration in the global economic environment led to a reduced demand for our products.
This market downturn af rms the importance of leading technology and lowest cost of manufacture.
In this regard, our new Zhuhai 2 PTA unit in China, which was fully commissioned during the first quarter of 2008, is the largest single PTA-manufacturing plant in the world.
It achieves the highest energy ef ciency and smallest environmental footprint in its sector, producing 65% fewer CO emissions than conventional facilities.
2 In 2009 our Nanjing joint-venture acetic acid plant is expected to start up.
This deepens our strategic relationship with Sinopec in the important growth market of China.
Optimizing our organization and repositioning our cost ef ciency We are simplifying the structure of our organization and improving the ef ciency of our back of ce, including customer service, accounting services and procurement systems.
These activities will be centralized in a few global centres to remove duplication and reduce cost.
In Europe, for example, we are running 80 business service centres and our objective is to move to one.
We are also reducing our headcount, including the number of senior management positions.
BPs Cooper River chemical plant in South Carolina, US, was the first to go live with our Looking ahead new OMS a milestone achievement on safety In 2009 the overall economic environment is expected to be challenging with continued reduced and reliability.
demand for our products leading to lower annual volumes and pressure on margins.
The impact is BPs OMS delivers safe and reliable This is a clear sign of the change expected to be greatest in the petrochemicals sector.
When fully implemented, under way within our Re ning and Against this background we intend to continue it will govern how every BP project, Marketing business and elsewhere actively managing our cost base, simplifying our site, operation and facility operates.
It demonstrates our commitment It consolidates BP requirements to drive consistency, continuous marketing footprint and developing the market positions relating to process safety: improvement and, ultimately, to set where we have competitive advantage based on brand environmental performance: legal the standards for operating excellence and technology strengths.
We intend to focus on cash compliance in operations: personal, in our sector.
The Cooper River team generation through active management of our working marine and driving safety: and ISO is sharing its experience about the 14001.
It also embraces the BP successful transition to the OMS capital and credit exposures.
US Re neries Independent Safety across BP.
We intend to limit our capital investment to Review Panels recommendations.
maintaining and improving our core positions.
To continue It is built on the twin foundations the progress we have made in recent years, our top priority of risk management and continuous improvement.
In 2008 our Cooper for spending will remain safety and operational integrity.
River chemical plant in the US The other area of focus will be delivering integrated became the first site to be up value in our key markets through investment in terminals and running with the OMS.
Our largest investment is expected to be at the Whiting re nery, where we have started a major upgrading and modernization programme that will enable the re nery to operate on Canadian heavy crude oil.
We also intend to complete the planned projects in petrochemicals.
24 Joined-up thinking Our integrated fuels value chains are highly integrated regional businesses comprising re ning, logistics, marketing, supply and trading of ground transportation fuels, with strong links to our convenience retail activities.
They are concentrated in six geographies and together represent about 80% of our operating capital employed.
Our regional business based in the Rhine region, Germany, exempli es the bene ts of integration.
Through this, we now plan all key decisions affecting operations in seven European countries.
So if an investment is needed in our Rotterdam terminal, we can look at the implications for facilities across the continent, and spot opportunities to optimize expenditure and improve systems.
The bene ts are already coming through faster and better decision-making, lower costs and innovative thinking.
Flying high Air BP provides the fuels, lubricants and essential services airlines need to keep their planes ying.
In 2008 we were behind two notable rsts 6 we were voted number one for Six locations customer service in the leading of our integrated annual airline survey and we provided fuels value technical advice to Virgin Airways on chains its first aviation biofuel test ight.
We also provided the default lubricant Essential ingredient used in the oil system on the Boeing 787 Dreamliner and were the first BP is the worlds largest producer supplier to fuel the A380 in the US of acetic acid a vital but largely est Coast es and Middle East, demonstrating unfamiliar raw material.
It is used in that we are the partner of choice everything from medicine and food to the airline industry.
At the same to paint, textiles, washing powder time, 2008 was a challenging year and packaging.
Youll even nd it in for airlines, and Air BP moved quickly jars of pickled onions.
Our five acetic to simplify its footprint and improve acid production plants including cost ef ciency.
joint ventures, and the Sterling, US, chemical plant, are busy meeting growing global demand and, in 2009, we expect to commission a new plant and a major expansion in Nanjing, China.
Our leadership position extends beyond manufacturing and marketing to technology.
Methanol carbonylationbased plants account for around 80% Sou ut thern t t of all acetic acid production: we have Afri riica ic developed this process further to create our patented acetic acid manufacturing process, Cativa, which is used within all our acetic acid units.
Compared A Australia ustralia a and with traditional methanol production New Zeal ala and processes, Cativa reduces steam and water consumption and, per tonne of product, emissions by up to 30% an outstanding ef ciency improvement in the manufacturing of this essential ingredient.
25 Developing the energy of the future 26 BP Annual Review 2008 Alternative Energy BPs substantial investments in alternative energy have created businesses and technologies with the potential to deliver cleaner energy and long-term value.
2008 saw a sharper focus on the most promising areas.
Highlights Major acquisitions and partnerships in biofuels.
Strong growth in US wind sector.
Continued progress in solar power.
BP is helping to meet the worlds growing demand for sustainable and affordable energy, building alternative energy businesses with the potential to grow and compete far into the future.
That requires us to identify todays most promising alternative technologies and transform them into sources of secure, reliable and cleaner energy.
We invest signi cantly more in this area than our peers.
At its launch in 2005 we committed $8 billion to our Alternative Energy business and, this year, we have invested $1.4 billion.
In 2008 we prioritized four areas with signi cant long-term growth potential wind, solar, biofuels and CCS.
We have also developed a fifth area gasred power that offers synergies with other BP operations.
Wind Since the launch of Alternative Energy we have substantially grown our wind portfolio, increasing from a 32 megawatts MW in operation to 432MW 785MW gross at the end of 2008.
In total, we have more than a 500MW of installed capacity 1000MW gross.
We began 2008 with full commercial operations at several wind farms across the US, including Cedar Creek, Colorado.
This 274-turbine facility was delivered on time, on budget and without a single lost-time safety incident during construction.
Our US wind portfolio now has enough potential total generating capacity to supply low-carbon electricity to some six million average American homes.
a Figures represent net wind capacity, which is the sum of the rated capacities Brazil of the assets turbines, including BPs share of the equity-accounted entities.
An employee inspects The equivalent capacities on a gross basis include 100% of the capacity of the a sugar cane plantation equity-accounted entities where BP has partial ownership.
at the Tropical BioEnergia S. A. joint ventures biofuels AE in more detail facility in Edia, Goias bpalternativenergy.
com State, Brazil, which started production in 2008.
27 impact on food supplies and by developing advanced BP Annual Review 2008 technologies to make good biofuels even better.
Alternative Energy In April 2008 we acquired a 50% stake in Tropical BioEnergia S. A. the largest single investment in the Brazilian bioethanol industry by an international oil company.
Tropicals first facility in Edia, Goias Solar State, Brazil, began production of bioethanol in Our strategy is to invest in lower-cost manufacturing September 2008 and is expected to have a capacity to enable energy from our products to compete with of 115 million US gallons.
During 2008 we In August 2008 we announced a strategic signed a number of strategic partnership agreements partnership with the Verenium Corporation to accelerate in Asia, providing us with access to greater volumes the development and commercialization of lignocellulosic of high-quality low-cost solar modules.
We are already bioethanol, an advanced biofuel that can be made from one of the worlds major manufacturers of solar panels energy grasses and the non-edible parts of plants.
and, this year, increased sales from 115MW to 162MW.
This ts with our commitment to bring more sustainable More than 70% of our sales volume was sold to biofuels to market faster.
residential customers in Europe, the US and Australasia.
We have also been working with DuPont since In the US, since late 2007, we have installed a total 2003 to explore new approaches to the development of of 4MW of solar capacity at seven Walmart facilities biofuels.
The first product from this collaboration will be in California.
We also completed two of the largest an advanced fuel molecule called biobutanol, which has solar projects ever installed in Spain, which are a higher energy content than ethanol.
expected to provide up to one million customers with access to renewable electricity.
Carbon capture and storage We continue to support the Solar Cities CCS captures the CO emitted during the burning 2 concept, through which seven Australian cities and processing of fossil fuels, transporting and storing are demonstrating the economic and environmental it safely in deep geological formations such as oil or bene ts of solar power.
CCS technology, including pre-combustion capture technology, will enable low-carbon production Biofuels of electricity using secure sources of coal or other We expect to see very strong market growth fossil fuels.
a for biofuels out to 2030 and beyond.
Our strategy We are responding to the challenges of CCS by is to increase production of sustainable biofuels investing in advanced research and practical engineering rapidly, by using biofuel sources that minimize any solutions.
In 2000 we launched the CO Capture 2 Project and established the Carbon Mitigation Initiative at Princeton University.
In 2004, at the In Salah gas eld a Source: World Energy Outlook 2008.
OECD IEA 2008. in Algeria, we started capturing, injecting and storing up to one million tonnes of CO per annum, equivalent to 2 removing 250,000 cars from the road.
And in 2005 Total energy use increase 2007-2008 we joined the Advisory Council of the Zero Emissions Power Technology Platform, advising on CCS technology development and deployment in order to help Europe meet its emissions reduction targets.
Hydrogen Energy, our joint venture with Rio Tinto, 37% is working on developing low-carbon power plants in Solar Abu Dhabi and California that manufacture hydrogen for power generation.
In both instances the captured CO 2 will be transported to nearby oil elds for use in enhanced oil recovery, with the CO stored deep underground.
2 Government support and policy and regulatory 27.8% frameworks around CCS are now being introduced in Ethanol key markets throughout the world with the aim to facilitate the development and wide-scale deployment of CCS technology.
These renewable sources 28.5% Gasred power experienced rapid growth Our gasred power activities comprise modern Wind in 2007 and are playing an combined cycle gas turbine plants, which emit around increasingly important role 50% less CO than a conventional coal plant of the 2 in some countries.
same capacity, and several low-carbon co-generation Sources: BP Statistical Review gas power facilities.
Our co-generation plants are of World Energy June 2008. helping to make BPs re ning operations more ef cient Photovoltaic Power Systems while reducing emissions, such as at the Texas City Programme Annual Report 2007.
OECD IEA 2007. re nery, and our combined cycle plants are providing base-load demand for BPs major upstream gas Renewable energy statistics production developments.
com statisticalreview 28 Vivienne Cox The lightweight sail uses 256 BP Solar glass Chief Executive, Alternative Energy modules combined with fabric, aluminium and transparent solar modules.
2008 was a year of disciplined growth, with a clear focus on areas offering material value for BP wind, solar, biofuels, carbon capture and storage and gasred power.
Powered by wind Our Sherbino 1 facility in Texas started commercial operation in 2008 and is expected to have a capacity of 750MW.
SolarSail Designed and built by BP Solar and We worked very closely with BP and biofuels the construction team to ensure opened to the public in 2008, the SolarSail demonstration project is BPs safety standards were implemented and the project Why is BP investing in biofuels?
inspiring and educating visitors to the Guangdong Science Centre, was completed without incident.
Transport accounts for around 20% of CO emissions 2 The SolarSail now helps to power China.
The 20-metre-high, 30-metreglobally, and by 2030 the number of vehicles on the worlds roads wide steel spaceframe supports a the science centre and provides is estimated to have doubled to two billion.
Biofuels are the best information on solar power, but sail of transparent solar modules currently available renewable fuel option to reduce carbon emissions and fabric, which is mounted on large it also serves to symbolize what can be achieved through the concrete plinths.
Completed in just and diversify supply.
We expect to see very strong growth in this eight weeks, this was the first time combination of technology, a market over 15-30 years and estimate that biofuels could provide investment and imagination.
such a complex, innovative structure up to three million boe d by 2020. had been constructed in the region and this presented signi cant safety Can biofuels help to address climate change?
Local contractors were required to carry out more than 1,000 Biofuels can help reduce transport-related emissions because separate lifting operations while CO absorbed by plants as they grow can offset those emitted during 2 handling sloping and curved surfaces.
the whole process of farming, producing the fuel and burning it in an engine.
However, the exact CO savings depend on many factors and 2 some biofuels are better than others.
Brazilian sugar cane bioethanol Ethanol production is currently the most ef cient biofuel and can reduce emissions by Our expected full capacity up to 90% compared with gasoline.
BP is committed to producing output at the Tropical biofuels that contribute meaningfully to CO reductions.
BioEnergia S. A. joint ventures 2 biofuel facility in Edia would 115 make it one of the largest Will the growth of biofuels threaten food supply?
ethanol production facilities Biofuels can be made from many crops.
BP is committed to million in Brazil.
producing biofuels in a sustainable way and will focus on crops US gallons that minimize pressure on food supplies.
Studies show that there is suf cient land available globally to support the projected growth in biofuel production alongside growing food and feed supplies, and to meet the demands of a growing global population.
In fact, we see opportunities to integrate fuel and food production by using land in more effective and ef cient ways.
29 Results BP Annual Review 2008 BPs replacement cost pro t was $25,593 million, Our financial performance compared with $18,370 million in 2007.
Our pro t after inventory holding gains and losses was $21,157 million, compared with $20,845 million in 2007.
Inventory holding gains and losses represent the difference between the cost of sales calculated using the average cost to BP of supplies incurred during the year and the cost of sales calculated on the first-in first-out method, including any changes in provisions where the net realizable value of the inventory is lower than its cost.
Our pro t gures included a net charge a for non-operating items, on a pre-tax basis, of $1,276 million.
The primary additional factors re ected in pro t for 2008, compared with 2007, were higher realizations, a higher contribution from gas marketing and trading, improved oil supply and trading performance, improved marketing performance and strong cost management.
These were partly offset by weaker re ning margins, particularly in the US, higher production taxes, higher depreciation, adverse foreign exchange effects and the adverse impact of prior-month pricing of domestic pipeline barrels for our US re ning system.
Return on average capital employed on a Building replacement cost basis was 22%, compared with 17% in 2007: based on pro t after inventory holding gains and losses, it was 18% 2007 19%.
momentum Finance costs in 2008 were $1,547 million, slightly higher than in 2007.
The increase was largely Byron Grote Chief Financial Of cer due to a reduction in capitalized interest as several 24 February 2009 major capital construction projects were concluded.
Net finance income relating to pensions and other Highlights post-retirement bene ts in 2008 was $591 million, broadly the same as the previous year.
u Replacement cost pro t of $25,593 million p 39%.
The corporate tax charge on replacement $ Capital expenditure and acquisitions of 30,700 million.
cost pro t was $14,669 million, compared with Dividend per share of 55.05 cents up 30%.
$9,359 million in 2007, representing an effective tax rate of 36% 2007 33%.
The group earns income in many countries and, on average, pays taxes at rates higher than the UK statutory rate of 28% for 2008.
The increase in the effective rate in 2008, compared with 2007, primarily re ects the change in the country mix of the groups income, resulting in a higher overall tax burden.
a Non-operating items are charges and credits that BP discloses separately because it considers such disclosures to be meaningful and relevant to investors.
The main categories of non-operating items in the periods presented are: impairments: gains or losses on sale of xed assets and the sale of businesses: environmental remediation: restructuring, integration and rationalization costs: and changes in the fair value of embedded derivatives.
These disclosures are provided in order to enable investors to understand and evaluate the groups financial performance better.
30 Dividends and share repurchases In 2008 we saw higher realizations, a higher The total dividend paid in 2008 was $10,342 million, contribution from gas marketing and trading, compared with $8,106 million for 2007.
The dividend improved oil supply and trading performance, paid per share was 55.05 cents, an increase of 30% compared with 2007.
In sterling terms, the dividend improved marketing performance and strong paid increased by 40% due to the stronger US dollar.
We determine the dividend in US dollars, the functional currency of BP.
During 2008 the company repurchased 269.8 million of its own shares for cancellation at a cost of $2.9 billion.
The repurchased shares had a nominal value of $67.5 million and represented 1.4% of ordinary shares in issue, net of treasury shares, at the end of 2007.
We rebalanced our distributions in favour of dividends at the beginning of 2008, and suspended our share buyback programme in September in light of the uncertain environment.
Our aim is to strike the right balance for Capital expenditure and acquisitions amounted shareholders, between current returns via dividend, to $30,700 million.
This included $4,731 million sustained investment for long-term growth and in respect of our transaction with Husky Energy Inc. maintaining a prudent gearing level.
and $3,667 million in respect of our purchase of all BP intends to continue the operation of the Chesapeake Energy Corporations interest in the Dividend Reinvestment Plan for shareholders who Arkoma Basin Woodford Shale assets and the wish to receive their dividend in the form of shares purchase of a 25% interest in Chesapeakes rather than cash.
The BP Direct Access Plan for US Fayetteville Shale assets.
Acquisitions in 2007 and Canadian shareholders also includes a dividend included the remaining 31% of the Rotterdam reinvestment feature.
Nerefco re nery from Chevrons Netherlands manufacturing company.
Net cash provided by operating activities for the The foregoing paragraphs contain forward-looking year ended 31 December 2008 was $38,095 million, statements.
Please refer to the cautionary statement compared with $24,709 million for the equivalent on the inside front cover.
In addition to higher pro ts, the increase re ects a decrease in working capital requirements and an increase in dividends from jointly controlled entities and associates: these were partially offset Our financial performance by an increase in income taxes paid.
Read about our key measures of progress on pages 12-13.
Net cash used in investing activities was $22,767 million, compared with $14,837 million in 2007.
This re ects a reduction in disposal proceeds and an increase in capital expenditure compared with 2007.
Net debt was $25,041 million at the end of 2008, a decrease of $1,776 million compared with 2007.
Net debt includes the fair value of associated derivative 30% financial instruments that are used to hedge foreign increase in dividend exchange and interest rate risks relating to finance debt, for which hedge accounting is claimed.
The ratio of net debt to net debt plus equity was 21% at the end of 2008 and 22% at the end of 2007.
The net debt ratio shows The total dividend paid in the proportion of debt and equity used to finance our 2008 was $10,342 operations and can also be used to measure borrowing million.
Our financial framework includes a gearing band of 20-30%, which is intended to provide an ef cient capital structure and an appropriate level of financial exibility.
In addition to reported debt, BP uses conventional off-balance sheet sources of finance such as operating leases and borrowings of jointly controlled entities and associates.
31 BP Annual Review 2008 Our financial performance Group income statement For the year ended 31 December $ million Note 2008 2007 2006 Sales and other operating revenues 361,143 284,365 265,906 Earnings from jointly controlled entities after interest and tax 3,023 3,135 3,553 Earnings from associates after interest and tax 798 697 442 Interest and other revenues 736 754 701 Total revenues 365,700 288,951 270,602 Gains on sale of businesses and xed assets 1,353 2,487 3,714 Total revenues and other income 367,053 291,438 274,316 Purchases 266,982 200,766 187,183 Production and manufacturing expenses 29,183 25,915 23,793 Production and similar taxes 6,526 4,013 3,621 Depreciation, depletion and amortization 10,985 10,579 9,128 Impairment and losses on sale of businesses and xed assets 1,733 1,679 549 Exploration expense 882 756 1,045 Distribution and administration expenses 15,412 15,371 14,447 Fair value gain loss on embedded derivatives 111 7 608 Pro t before interest and taxation from continuing operations 2 35,239 32,352 35,158 Finance costs 1,547 1,393 986 Net finance income relating to pensions and other post-retirement bene ts 591 652 470 Pro t before taxation from continuing operations 34,283 31,611 34,642 Taxation 12,617 10,442 12,331 Pro t from continuing operations 21,666 21,169 22,311 Pro t loss from Innovene operations 25 Pro t for the year 21,666 21,169 22,286 Attributable to BP shareholders 21,157 20,845 22,000 Minority interest 509 324 286 21,666 21,169 22,286 Earnings per share cents Pro t for the year attributable to BP shareholders Basic 4 112.59 108.76 109.84 Diluted 4 111.56 107.84 109.00 Pro t from continuing operations attributable to BP shareholders Basic 112.59 108.76 109.97 Diluted 111.56 107.84 109.12 Group statement of recognized income and expense For the year ended 31 December $ million 2008 2007 2006 Currency translation differences 4,362 1,887 2,025 Exchange gain on translation of foreign operations transferred to gain or loss on sale of businesses and xed assets 147 Actuarial loss gain relating to pensions and other post-retirement bene ts 8,430 1,717 2,615 Available-for-sale investments 468 109 134 Cash ow hedges 1,166 41 314 Taxation 2,756 63 934 Net income expense recognized directly in equity 11,670 3,544 3,886 Pro t for the year 21,666 21,169 22,286 Total recognized income and expense for the year 9,996 24,713 26,172 Attributable to BP shareholders 9,562 24,365 25,837 Minority interest 434 348 335 9,996 24,713 26,172 32 BP Annual Review 2008 Our financial performance Group balance sheet At 31 December $ million 2008 2007 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 103,200 97,989 Goodwill 9,878 11,006 Intangible assets 10,260 6,652 Investments in jointly controlled entities 23,826 18,113 Investments in associates 4,000 4,579 Other investments 855 1,830 Fixed assets 152,019 140,169 Loans 995 999 Other receivables 710 968 Derivative financial instruments 5,054 3,741 Prepayments 1,338 1,083 fide ned bene t pension plan surpluses 1,738 8,914 161,854 155,874 Current assets Loans 168 165 Inventories 16,821 26,554 Trade and other receivables 29,261 38,020 Derivative financial instruments 8,510 6,321 Prepayments 3,050 3,589 Current tax receivable 377 705 Cash and cash equivalents 8,197 3,562 66,384 78,916 Assets classi ed as held for sale 1,286 66,384 80,202 Total assets 228,238 236,076 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 33,644 43,152 Derivative financial instruments 8,977 6,405 Accruals 6,743 6,640 Finance debt 15,740 15,394 Current tax payable 3,144 3,282 Provisions 1,545 2,195 69,793 77,068 Liabilities directly associated with the assets classi ed as held for sale 163 69,793 77,231 Non-current liabilities Other payables 3,080 1,251 Derivative financial instruments 6,271 5,002 Accruals 784 959 Finance debt 17,464 15,651 Deferred tax liabilities 16,198 19,215 Provisions 12,108 12,900 fide ned bene t pension plan and other post-retirement bene t plan fide cits 10,431 9,215 66,336 64,193 Total liabilities 136,129 141,424 Net assets 92,109 94,652 Equity Share capital 5,176 5,237 Reserves 86,127 88,453 BP shareholders equity 91,303 93,690 Minority interest 806 962 Total equity 92,109 94,652 The summary financial statement on pages 1-5 and 10-41 was approved by a duly appointed and authorized committee of the board of directors on 24 February 2009 and signed on its behalf by: P D Sutherland Chairman Dr A B Hayward Group Chief Executive 33 BP Annual Review 2008 Our financial performance Group cash ow statement For the year ended 31 December $ million 2008 2007 2006 Reconciliation of pro t before taxation to net cash provided by operating activities Pro t before taxation 34,283 31,611 34,642 Depreciation and other similar non-cash charges 11,750 10,118 6,587 Earnings from equity-accounted entities, less dividends received 93 1,359 500 Net charge for interest and other finance expense, less net interest paid 357 611 699 Share-based payments 459 420 416 Net operating charge for pensions and other post-retirement bene ts, less contributions and bene t payments for unfunded plans 173 404 261 Net charge for provisions, less payments 298 92 340 Movements in working capital 5,348 5,902 380 Income taxes paid 12,824 9,072 13,733 Net cash provided by operating activities 38,095 24,709 28,172 Net cash used in investing activities 22,767 14,837 9,518 Net cash used in nancing activities 10,509 9,035 19,071 Currency translation differences relating to cash and cash equivalents 184 135 47 Increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 4,635 972 370 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 3,562 2,590 2,960 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 8,197 3,562 2,590 Notes 1 Presentation of the accounts These summarized financial statements represent an abridged version of the financial statements in BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008, which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRS as adopted for use by the European Union EU.
IFRS as adopted for use by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB: however, the differences have no impact on the groups consolidated financial statements for the years presented.
Subsequent to releasing our preliminary announcement of the fourth quarter 2008 results on 3 February 2009, an adjustment has been made to correct for a $560 million overstatement of the deferred tax liability in the balance sheet as at 31 December 2008 with a corresponding adjustment to the foreign currency translation reserve in equity.
There was no impact on pro t for the year.
The accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 do not re ect the dividend announced on 3 February 2009 and payable in March 2009: this will be treated as an appropriation of pro t in the year ended 31 December 2009.
4 Earnings per ordinary share Basic earnings per ordinary share amounts are calculated by dividing the pro t for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
The average number of shares outstanding excludes treasury shares and the shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Plans and includes certain shares that will be issuable in the future under employee share plans.
For the diluted earnings per share calculation, the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year is adjusted for the number of shares that are potentially issuable in connection with employee share-based payment plans using the treasury stock method.
In addition, for 2006, the pro t attributable to ordinary shareholders has been adjusted for the unwinding of discount on the deferred consideration for the acquisition of our interest in TNK-BP, and the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year has been adjusted for the number of shares to be issued for the deferred consideration for the acquisition of our interest in TNK-BP.
5 Capital expenditure and acquisitions $ million 2008 2007 By business Exploration and Production 22,227 14,207 Re ning and Marketing 6,634 5,495 Other businesses and corporate 1,839 939 30,700 20,641 By geographical area UK 1,608 1,672 Rest of Europe 2,187 3,040 US 16,046 7,487 Rest of World 10,859 8,442 30,700 20,641 6 Directors remuneration $ million 2008 2007 2006 Total for all directors Emoluments 19 26 14 Gains made on the exercise of share options 1 2 12 Amounts awarded under incentive schemes 10 14 Emoluments These amounts comprise fees paid to the non-executive chairman and the non-executive directors and, for executive directors, salary and bene ts earned during the relevant financial year, plus bonuses awarded for the year.
This includes an ex gratia superannuation payment of nil 2007 $3 million, 2006 nil and compensation for loss of of ce of $1 million 2007 $1 million and 2006 nil.
Pension contributions Four executive directors participated in a non-contributory pension scheme established for UK staff by a separate trust fund to which contributions are made by BP based on actuarial advice.
One US executive director participated in the US BP Retirement Accumulation Plan during 2008.
Of ce facilities for former chairmen and deputy chairmen It is customary for the company to make available to former chairmen and deputy chairmen, who were previously employed executives, the use of of ce and basic secretarial facilities following their retirement.
The cost involved in doing so is not signi cant.
Further information Details of individual directors remuneration are given in the summary directors remuneration report on pages 38-39.
35 BP Annual Review 2008 Independent auditors statement To the members of BP p. l. c. We have examined the groups summary financial statement for the year ended 31 December 2008.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing BP Annual Review 2008 in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within BP Annual Review 2008 with the consolidated financial statements, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in BP Annual Review 2008 and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Our reports on the consolidated and parent company financial statements contained within BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 describe the basis of our opinions on those financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report.
Opinion In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with the consolidated financial statements, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report of BP p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2008 and complies with the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor London 24 February 2009 The auditors have issued an unquali ed audit report on BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 containing no statement under Section 237 2 or Section 237 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
36 BP Annual Review 2008 Board of directors Peter D Sutherland, SC, KCMG Chairman Chairman of the chairmans and the nomination committees and attends meetings of the remuneration committee Non-executive directors Executive directors Sir Ian Prosser Dr Anthony B Hayward Changes to the board Deputy Chairman Group Chief Executive Dr D C Allen retired as a director on 31 March Member of the chairmans, the nomination 2008.
Dr W E Massey retired as a director on and the remuneration committees and Iain C Conn 17 April 2008.
Mr G David was appointed a chairman of the audit committee Chief Executive, non-executive director on 11 February 2008.
Re ning and Marketing At the companys 2008 annual Antony Burgmans, KBE general meeting the following directors Member of the chairmans and the Dr Byron E Grote retired, offered themselves for election safety, ethics and environment Chief Financial Of cer re-election and were duly elected assurance committees re-elected: Mr A Burgmans: Mrs C B Carroll: Andrew G Inglis Sir William Castell: Mr I C Conn: Mr G David: Cynthia B Carroll Chief Executive, Mr E B Davis, Jr: Mr D J Flint: Dr B E Grote: Member of the chairmans and the Exploration and Production Dr A B Hayward: Mr A G Inglis: Dr D S Julius: safety, ethics and environment Sir Tom McKillop: Sir Ian Prosser and assurance committees Mr P D Sutherland.
Mr R Dudley has been appointed an Sir William Castell, LVO executive director with effect from Member of the chairmans committee 6 April 2009. and chairman of the safety, ethics and All the directors, including Mr Dudley, environment assurance committee will offer themselves for election re-election at the companys 2009 AGM.
George David Member of the chairmans and the Company secretary audit committees David Jackson 56 was appointed company secretary in 2003.
A solicitor, Erroll B Davis, Jr he is a director of BP Pension Trustees Member of the chairmans, the audit Limited and a member of the Listing and the remuneration committees Authorities Advisory Committee.
Douglas J Flint, CBE Member of the chairmans and the audit committees Dr DeAnne S Julius, CBE Member of the chairmans and the nomination committees and chairman of the remuneration committee Sir Tom McKillop Member of the chairmans, the remuneration and the safety, ethics and environment assurance committees 37 The committee undertook a detailed review of BPs BP Annual Review 2008 underlying performance against competitors in Summary directors determining the 2006-2008 share element vesting under the executive directors incentive plan EDIP.
remuneration report This review included financial measures such as earnings per share, returns on average capital employed, free cash ow, operating measures for both Exploration and Production and Re ning and Marketing, and nonfinancial measures for safety and reputation.
All measures were compared across competitors and showed BP rmly in the pack of the other European oil majors.
The comparison of total shareholder return TSR was less favourable to BP, partly due to exchange rate movements and turbulence in the financial markets.
After careful review, the committee concluded that TSR alone was not a fair re ection of underlying performance over the 2006-2008 period.
We concluded that it was appropriate to approve the vesting of 15% of the shares in the plan for the current directors.
This too is set out in the table opposite.
Salaries were increased mid-2008 after our normal review.
For 2009, we have agreed with the group chief executives view that salaries should be frozen at their current level.
There also will be no change in the target and normal maximum levels of Str ong bonus for 2009.
The group chief executives and group chief financial of cers bonuses will be based 70% on group performance against key metrics in the annual p erformance plan, 15% on safety performance and 15% on people.
The chief executives of Exploration and Production and Dr D S Julius Chairman Re ning and Marketing will have 50% of their bonuses Remuneration Committee determined on the above basis and 50% on the 24 February 2009 performance of their respective businesses.
The EDIP share element will again provide the Highlights long-term component of remuneration for the 2009-2011 period, with some slight modi cations.
First, re ecting Key financial targets exceeded.
its recent growth, ConocoPhillips will be added to the Strong leadership on forward agenda.
peer group of comparators currently ExxonMobil, Shell, Safety maintained as top priority.
Second, to provide a more balanced Long-term competitive performance re-established.
assessment, vesting will be based half on BPs total shareholder return relative to the peer group and half on underlying performance compared with this same BP executives delivered a strong performance in a peer group.
BPs performance will be compared on turbulent environment during 2008 and restored the an interpolated basis relative to the performance of groups operations to a high standard after several the other five.
As in previous years, shares will vest years of focused effort.
We commend them for a at 100%, 70% and 35% for performance equivalent job well done.
to first, second and third rank respectively and none Key financial targets for the year were for fourth or fifth.
exceeded, even after adjusting for the effect of We remain committed to a remuneration policy high oil prices during part of the year.
Safe and reliable and practice that aligns with the long-term interests operations remained at the top of the agenda and key of shareholders and provides an appropriate reward safety metrics and milestones were achieved.
The for talented and committed executives.
In the current years results were especially strong in Exploration volatile climate, executive leadership is more important and Production, with the start-up of the Thunder Horse than ever.
The committee will continue to use careful platform and excellent overall reserves replacement.
and rigorous judgement in assessing performance, Key targets were also met in Re ning and Marketing and to communicate our assessment in a clear way and both the Texas City and Whiting re neries were to shareholders.
safely restored to full capacity by the end of the year.
The annual bonus results, set out in the table opposite, re ect this strong performance and determined leadership.
38 BP Annual Review 2008 Summary directors remuneration report a Summary of annual remuneration of executive directors in 2008 Annual remuneration Long-term remuneration b Share element of EDIP 2005-2007 plan 2006-2008 plan 2008-2010 vested in Feb 2008 vested in Feb 2009 plan Annual Non-cash bene ts Potential c Salary performance bonus and other emoluments Total Actual Actual maximum d thousand thousand thousand thousand shares Value shares Value performance e 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 vested thousand vested thousand shares Dr A B Hayward 877 998 1,262 1,496 14 15 2,153 2,509 0 0 66,136 336 845,319 I C Conn 581 670 698 871 45 45 1,324 1,586 0 0 66,136 336 578,376 f Dr B E Grote $1,175 $1,340 $1,551 $1,742 $10 $8 $2,736 $3,090 0 0 80,231 $603 581,748 g A G Inglis 556 670 800 1,173 188 212 1,544 2,055 0 0 54,994 279 578,376 Directors leaving the board in 2008 h Dr D C Allen 500 128 539 163 13 3 1,052 294 0 0 34,518 175 n a Amounts shown are in the currency received by executive directors.
Annual bonuses are shown in the year they were earned.
a This information has been subject to audit.
b Or equivalent plans in which the individual participated prior to joining the board.
c Includes shares representing reinvested dividends accrued on the shares that vested at the end of the performance period.
d Based on market price on vesting date 5.08 per share $45.13 per ADS.
e Maximum potential shares that could vest at the end of the three-year period depending on performance.
f Dr Grote holds shares in the form of ADSs.
The above number re ects calculated equivalent in ordinary shares.
g This amount includes costs of London accommodation provided to Mr Inglis.
In addition, under a tax equalization arrangement, the company also discharged a US tax liability arising on his participation in the UK pension scheme amounting to $553,175.
h Dr Allen resigned from the board on 31 March 2008.
In addition to the above, he was awarded compensation for loss of of ce equal to one years salary 510,000.
He also received 30,000 in respect of statutory rights and retained his company car.
a Pensions Remuneration of non-executive directors in 2008 All executive directors are part of a final salary pension scheme.
thousand Accrued annual pension earned as at 31 December 2008 is 561,000 2007 2008 for Dr Hayward, 264,000 for Mr Conn, $868,000 for Dr Grote and A Burgmans 86 90 326,000 for Mr Inglis.
Sir William Castell 87 108 C B Carroll 43 93 b G David n a 100 E B Davis, Jr 107 105 Historical TSR performance D J Flint 86 90 300 Dr D S Julius 106 110 FTSE 100 Sir Tom McKillop 87 95 250 BP Sir Ian Prosser 137 170 P D Sutherland 517 600 200 Directors leaving the board in 2008 c Dr W E Massey 133 90 150 a This information has been subject to audit.
100 c Also received a superannuation gratuity of 23,000.
Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 In 2008 the board, after a review, determined that in future it would continue to set the remuneration of the non-executive directors.
However, This graph shows the growth in value of a hypothetical 100 holding in in the case of the chairman, this would be based on a recommendation BP p. l. c. ordinary shares over five years, relative to the FTSE 100 Index from the remuneration committee and, for the non-executive directors, of which the company is a constituent.
The values of the hypothetical it would be based on a recommendation from the chairman.
100 holdings at the end of the five-year period were 144.36 and This process was adopted in 2008 and recommendations were 115.05 respectively.
However, the chairman and the non-executive directors informed the board that, in the current economic circumstances, they did not wish to receive any increase in remuneration for 2009.
The board accordingly maintained the fees at the 2008 level for 2009 save that no committee membership fee would in future be paid to members of the nomination committee.
39 Value of hypothetical 100 holding BP Annual Review 2008 Information for shareholders Annual general meeting Administration The 2009 annual general meeting will be held on Thursday If you have any queries about the administration of shareholdings, 16 April 2009 at 11.30 a. m. at ExCeL London, One Western such as change of address, change of ownership, dividend Gateway, Royal Victoria Dock, London E16 1XL.
A separate payments, the dividend reinvestment plan or the ADS direct access notice convening the meeting is distributed to shareholders, plan, or to change the way you receive your company documents which includes an explanation of the items of special business such as the Annual Report and Accounts, Annual Review and Notice to be considered at the meeting.
of Meeting, please contact the BP Registrar or ADS Depositary.
All resolutions of which notice has been given will be decided on a poll.
UK Registrars Of ce Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to The BP Registrar, Equiniti continue in of ce as auditors and a resolution for their reappointment Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA is included in the Notice of BP Annual General Meeting 2009.
Freephone in UK 0800 701107: Tel 44 0 121 415 7005 Textphone 0871 384 2255: Fax 0871 384 2100 Please note, all contact numbers with the pre x 0871 will be charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other network providers costs may vary.
US ADS Depositary JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. PO Box 64504 St Paul, MN 55164-0504 Toll-free in US and Canada 1 877 638 5672 Tel 1 651 306 4383 Dividends More information If you would like more information on holding BP ordinary or We announce dividends on our ordinary shares in US dollars and at the same time state an equivalent sterling dividend.
The rate preference shares or ADSs, our investor centre at www.
com investors contains information that you may nd helpful regarding of exchange used to determine the sterling amount equivalent is the average of the forward exchange rate in London over the five your investment in BP.
There you can also nd copies of all BPs quarterly results and other stock exchange announcements.
business days prior to the announcement date.
Dividends are normally paid in March, June, September and December see table The BP Annual Review 2008 contains a summary of certain below.
Holders of ordinary shares receive their dividends in sterling: information in the BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008.
For a full holders of ADSs receive their dividends in US dollars.
One ADS understanding of the results and state of affairs of BP and of its represents six ordinary shares.
policies and arrangements concerning directors remuneration, please see the BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008. a Period 4Q 2008 1Q 2009 2Q 2009 3Q 2009 If you would like to change how you receive your shareholder Announcement 3 Feb 09 28 Apr 09 28 Jul 09 27 Oct 09 documentation, or to receive BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Ex-dividend 18 Feb 09 13 May 09 12 Aug 09 11 Nov 09 or BP Annual Review 2008 free of charge, you should contact Equiniti b Record or qualifying 20 Feb 09 15 May 09 14 Aug 09 13 Nov 09 ordinary and preference shareholders or JPMorgan ADS holders Payment date 9 Mar 09 8 Jun 09 8 Sep 09 7 Dec 09 as above.
To obtain one-off paper copies of BPs publications, free of charge, please see page 41.
Please note that these dates are projections and may be subject to change.
a Dividend payments are identi ed by reference to the quarterly earnings to which they relate.
b This is also the date by which holders of ordinary shares must notify the BP Registrar, and holders of ADSs must notify JPMorgan of any change in dividend election between cash and reinvestment.
40 BP Annual Review 2008 Information for shareholders Reports and publications You can order BPs printed publications, free of charge, from: US and Canada BP Shareholder Services Toll-free 1 800 638 5672 Fax 1 630 821 3456 shareholderus@bp.
