BP Annual Review 2008 Exploration and Production Exploration and Production delivered an excellent performance in 2008 driven by underlying production growth and strong cost management.
Highlights Replacement cost pro t before interest and tax up 39%.
Fifteenth consecutive year of reported reserves replacement of more than 100%.
Thunder Horse and eight other major projects brought onstream.
BPs Exploration and Production business nds, produces and transports oil and gas to market.
We operate in 29 countries and employ more than 20,000 people.
Our strategy is to invest to grow production ef ciently by: Focusing on accessing, nding and developing the largest elds in the worlds most proli c hydrocarbon basins.
Building leadership positions in these areas.
Using technology to improve productivity and support new access.
Managing the decline of existing producing assets.
Maintaining our focus on safety Safety, both personal and process, remains our highest priority.
2008 was one of our best ever years for personal safety, with our performance expected to remain among the best in the industry.
During the year we began migrating to the new BP OMS, which has an increased focus on process safety and continuous improvement.
The majority of our operations in North America Gas, the Gulf of Mexico, Colombia and the Endicott eld in Alaska all completed the migration to the OMS in 2008.
During the year Hurricanes Ike and Gustav caused disruption to our Gulf of Mexico operations.
Ike was particularly destructive, but our teams responded rapidly, bringing all BP-operated production back online within 41 days of the storm passing.
Alaska E&P in more detail bp.
com whatwedo 250 miles north of the Arctic Circle, our Endicott eld was the worlds first offshore Arctic oil eld.
15 While higher oil and gas prices increased revenues BP Annual Review 2008 they also drove activity growth in the oil and gas sector.
Exploration and Production This created higher demand for oil eld goods and services, generating signi cant cost in ation.
We were not immune from this but mitigated the impact of in ation through strong cost management and This was extraordinary given that more than 8,000 a focus on simpli cation and ef ciency.
We held of our BP group employees were affected personally production costs essentially at from 2007 to 2008, by hurricane damage.
We supported employees signi cantly below the 20% annual cost growth through this time and provided more than $17 million between 2004 and 2007 and below sector in ation.
to assist with relief and recovery efforts for the In 2008 we extended our track record of wider community.
delivering reported reserves replacement of more than 100% by another year.
We have a strong portfolio of Our financial performance in 2008 assets and a clear strategy.
Our focus on simpli cation We delivered a strong performance in 2008, with and ef ciency is removing unnecessary cost.
We are replacement cost pro t before interest and tax of well placed to respond quickly to changing market $38 billion a record for our business and a 39% conditions and new opportunities.
This result was primarily driven by higher oil and gas realizations, supported by Growing our resource base a strong underlying production growth of 5% and cost Our oil and gas resource base provides the foundation ef ciency.
In 2008 production from our established for future growth.
We continue to drive renewal through centres including the North Sea, Alaska, North America new access, exploration, targeted acquisitions and Gas and Trinidad & Tobago was on plan and we had a renewed focus on increasing resources from elds production growth from nine new projects, including we currently operate.
Thunder Horse in the Gulf of Mexico and Deepwater Each year we set out to replace more reserves Gunashli in Azerbaijan.
of oil and gas than we produced in the previous 12 months.
2008 was the 15th consecutive year we achieved this, delivering reported reserves replacement of more than 100%.
In 2008 our exploration track record continued a Underlying production growth excludes the impact of lower with one of our best years this decade for new entitlement in our production-sharing agreements, driven by higher oil and gas prices.
We were also successful in acquiring new resources for example, the attractive gas shale resources from Chesapeake Energy Corporation providing the potential for further growth of our North America Gas business.
Our ability to get more from elds is enormously b c Total net proved reserves 2008 valuable.
By increasing the overall recovery rate by 1%, million barrels of oil equivalent we believe we can add two billion boe to our reserves.
To put that in context, when we started production at 10,353 the Prudhoe Bay eld in Alaska the recovery rate was expected to reach 40%.
Using new technologies we have increased this to 60%.
We now believe 70% is possible.
World-class start-ups In 2008 we extended our track record of major project start-ups, with nine new major projects coming onstream.
In the Gulf of Mexico production started at the Thunder Horse eld BP 75% and operator, with four wells in operation by the end of the year, producing around 200,000boe d gross.
We are now the largest producer in the Gulf of Mexico.
7,794 d Liquids In the Azerbaijan sector of the Caspian Sea Natural gas we started oil production on our Deepwater Gunashli platform.
Located in 175 metres of water, this platform 2008 was our 15th completes the third phase of development of the consecutive year of delivering reported  eld.
reserves replacement Other signi cant successes in 2008 included of more than 100%.
the start of oil and gas production at the Saqqara and Taurt elds in Egypt.
Taurt is a particularly important b Combined basis of subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities, on a basis milestone the first in a series of planned subsea consistent with general industry practice.
Under current SEC rules, BPs proved reserves estimates are based on prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made.
There was a rapid and substantial decline in oil prices in the fourth quarter of 2008 that was not matched by a similar reduction in operating costs by the end of the year.
BP does not expect that these economic conditions will continue.
However, our 2008 reserves are calculated on the basis of operating activities that would be undertaken were year-end prices and costs to persist.
d Crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
16 Andy Inglis Chief Executive, Exploration and Production We had an outstanding year in 2008, safely increasing production and pro tability and continuing to grow our resource base for the future.
Safety culture Safety is our top priority.
While plan focused on developing safety leaders, workforce communication, improved systems and processes are vital, another factor is even more standard implementation and continuous learning.
At bpTT, the important when it comes to safe and reliable operations people.
days away from work case injury frequency per 200,000 work-hours We continue to work to establish a strong safety culture, developing was reduced from 0.12 in 2003 to zero in 2008 while the recordable deep knowledge within every employee and sharing learning.
injury frequency more than halved in the same period.
This approach has been successful in building a world-class safety culture.
In BP Trinidad & Tobago bpTT, for example, the team has delivered an outstanding improvement in personal safety performance through the development of a comprehensive multi-year safety Thunder Horse breaks Exploration discoveries in 2008 new ground On 14 June 2008 the worlds largest oating platform processed oil for the first time.
Within 48 hours exportUK quality oil and gas were being transported to shore 150 miles away through the largest capacity deepwater pipeline system yet built.
This start to production is tting Algeria Egypt Gulf of Mexico for a project that has gone beyond established industry limits and recovered from serious setbacks.
In technical terms, Thunder Horse has broken new ground literally.
With the seabed one mile below the ocean surface, the Angola team drilled through three further miles of mud, rock and salt to access hydrocarbons.
Reservoir pressures above 1,200 bar and temperatures up to 135 degrees Celcius have created enormous demands on equipment, Algeria: Tin Zaouatene-1 Angola: Dione but the Thunder Horse team succeeded in bringing Egypt: Satis four wells onstream to ramp up production to around Gulf of Mexico: Kodiak, Freedom 200,000boe d by the end of the year.
Getting to this UK: Kinnoull, South West Foinaven point required more than 10 million work-hours, yet the project had just one day away from work case injury a remarkable record.
2008 was an excellent year for exploration.
BP participated in three of the 14 major discoveries reported globally in 2008, a leading position among our international oil company competitors.
We strengthened our position in a number of our core growth areas, including the Gulf of Mexico, Egypt and Angola.
Exploration success also played a signi cant role in the renewal of our more mature areas, with two discoveries in the UK North Sea.
Progressing these discoveries into projects and then start-ups will enable us to extend our track record of reserves replacement.
17 BP Annual Review 2008 Developing agship technologies Exploration and Production Developing and applying new technology is the key to increasing the overall recovery factor from our resource base.
Technology also allows us to make distinctive offers when bidding for new access opportunities.
Since 2006 we have increased investment in research and development and, in 2008, we went further, Seeing the future analyzing our portfolio to nd new ways to make technology count.
We identi ed 10 agship technologies, Tapped into the ground by hand, each with the potential to add more than one billion boe geophones record the re ected of additional reserves, and we are prioritizing investment sound waves sent out by vibrator in these areas.
These agship technologies three of trucks, helping to build up an which we discuss in more detail on these pages cover image of the gas reservoir.
every stage in the exploration and production process, from seismic imaging to advanced control systems.
Investing in people While many industry observers have chosen to focus on peak oil, we believe a more important issue has been overlooked peak capability.
The world has enough resources to meet demand for decades, but the industry must attract and develop more engineers, geoscientists and other experts if it is to meet the challenges of energy demand and sustainability.
We are addressing this by building our human capability through recruitment and development.
Our three-year graduate development programme currently has 1,200 participants from all over the world, and we are implementing an enhanced technical learning programme across BP.
Many governments expect greater local participation in the development of their countrys resources and we have speci c programmes to build local capability.
By 2020 more than half our operations are expected to be in non-OECD countries and we see this as an opportunity to develop a new generation of experts and skilled employees.
Looking ahead Our priorities remain the same safety, people and performance, focusing on the delivery of safe, reliable In the vast Omani desert, a 40-tonne truck lifts and ef cient operations while maintaining exibility so we can respond to oil price volatility.
itself from the ground, shakes and vibrates In 2009 we will aim to use the operational vigorously for eight seconds, then sets itself momentum generated in 2008 to continue to drive down and moves on.
ef ciency into the cost base while ensuring we maintain our priorities of safe and reliable operations, and build capability for the future.
We intend to retain our rigour At exactly the same time, an identical Equally impressive innovation can be around capital investment, in particular pacing our scene takes place just a few kilometres seen in our offshore positions around away.
This is distance-separated the world, where we are gaining development to take advantage of a fide ationary simultaneous sweeping one of high resolution data from beneath cost base and supporting our strategy of growing several BP innovations revolutionizing thousands of feet of salt, and the upstream.
Our portfolio of assets is strong and the quality of data gained from seismic processing the information through well positioned to compete and grow in a range of surveys.
In this case, the trucks are unique new systems developed by helping to produce some of the most our teams.
This is seismic surveying external conditions.
accurate three-dimensional images as a competitive advantage.
of gas reservoirs ever seen.
And this method is proving cheaper and faster with the Oman team surveying Flagship 2 2,700km in the time conventional technology 2 methods would require for 800km.
18 Creating an ACE environment Flagship technology In a BP of ce, a team scrutinizes fast-changing numbers, colours and images on a wall of screens.
They discuss the picture unfolding before them and put into play a series of actions that in a matter of seconds will adjust drilling operations beneath the seabed many kilometres offshore.
This is a BP Advanced Collaborative Environment ACE, one of seven global centres supporting our operations around the world where drilling, reservoir and process engineers analyze real-time data from elds and optimize production operations.
The ACE is part of our FieldoftheFuture programme, which is reducing the need to visit remote sites, improving the data and insight we gather and increasing our speed of response to changing conditions making us more ef cient.
Unconventional gas, Projected demand for gas in North America unconventional growth % production 100 Flagship Shale technology 80 Demand for gas is growing and unconventional gas Tight will be essential in meeting future needs.
Around 40% of the gas we produce is unconventional and 60 that gure is set to increase.
But what exactly is CBM unconventional gas?
It is gas that is dif cult to nd, 40 produce and transport.
It might sit in ne-grained shale basins, in hard tight rock, in coalbed seams, Conventional in remote locations, or deep underground.
And this 20 is why innovation is vital.
Using new technologies, BP has drilled in 17 unconventional coalbed methane 0 CBM basins across the world, including some of 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 the largest reservoirs in North America.
By applying advanced drilling technologies we now produce more Source: Adapted from World Energy Outlook 2008. than 1% of the US domestic gas supply from the OECD IEA 2008.
19 Re ning and Marketing Results $ million 08 4,176 07 2,621 In 2008 our replacement cost pro t before interest and tax was signi cantly affected by adverse market conditions.
However, the marked improvement in our performance considerably mitigated these impacts.
