Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual Under applicable law and regulations the Directors report and the financial statements in accordance with are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires including a Business Review, a Directors Remuneration the Directors to prepare financial statements for each Report and a Corporate Governance Statement that financial period.
Under that law they have elected to comply with that law and those regulations.
prepare the financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information The financial statements are required by law to give a included on the Companys pages of the Managers true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company website www.
Visitors to the website and of the profit or loss for the period.
need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the In preparing these financial statements, the Directors financial statements may differ from legislation in are required to: their jurisdictions.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply We confirm that to the best of our knowledge the them consistently: financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and prudent: and profit or loss of the Company: and the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards performance of the business and the position of the have been followed, subject to any material Company together with a description of the principal departures disclosed and explained in the financial risks and uncertainties it faces.
statements: and Approved by the Board on 2 March 2009 and signed prepare the financial statements on the going on its behalf.
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Robert Walther Chairman The Directors are responsible for ensuring that 2 March 2009 proper accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Page 24 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2008
