Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting would or might require relevant securities to be of Fidelity European Values PLC will be held at 25 allotted after such expiry as if the authority conferred Cannon Street, London EC4M 5TA on 19 May 2009 by this resolution had not expired.
at 12 noon for the following purposes: 9.
THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 8 set ORDINARY BUSINESS out above, the Directors be and they are hereby 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and authorised, pursuant to Section 95 of the Act to allot Financial Statements for the year ended 31 equity securities as defined in Section 94 of the Act December 2008. for cash pursuant to the authority given by the said Resolution 8 as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not 2.
apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: 3.
To re-elect Mr Walther as a Director.
a to the allotment of equity securities in connection 4.
To re-elect Mr Fraser as a Director.
with a rights issue in favour of all holders of a class of relevant equity securities where the equity 5.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report securities attributable respectively to the interests for the year ended 31 December 2008. of all holders of securities of such class are either proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective 6.
To reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor numbers of relevant equity securities held by them of the Company to hold office until the conclusion or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the rights of the next general meeting at which financial attaching to such equity securities subject in either statements are laid before the Company.
case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Board may deem necessary or expedient in relation 7.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors to fractional entitlements or legal or practical remuneration.
problems under the laws of, or the requirements of, any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any SPECIAL BUSINESS territory or otherwise : and Resolutions 8 and 9 will, if approved, authorise the Directors to allot a limited number of the currently b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a unissued ordinary shares for cash without first offering rights issue of equity securities up to an aggregate such shares to existing ordinary shareholders pro rata nominal amount of 672,250 approximately 5% of to their existing holdings.
The limit set by the Board is the aggregate nominal amount of the issued share 5% of the number of ordinary shares of the Company capital of the Company as at 2 March 2009 : and in issue on 2 March 2009.
The Directors will only issue new shares under this authority to take advantage of c to the allotment of equity securities at a price of not opportunities in the market as they arise and only if less than the net asset value per share they believe it is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to do so.
and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following date 15 months after the passing of this resolution, resolutions which will be proposed, Resolution 8 as an whichever is the earlier, save that this authority shall allow ordinary resolution and Resolution 9 as a special the Company to make offers or agreements before the resolution: expiry of this authority, and the Directors may allot equity securities in relation to such an offer or agreement as 8.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally if the authority conferred by this resolution had and unconditionally authorised in accordance with not expired.
Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot Resolution 10 is a special resolution which, if approved, relevant securities as defined in that section up will renew the Companys authority to purchase its shares to an aggregate nominal amount of 672,250 for cancellation.
The limit set by the Board is 14.99% of approximately 5% of the aggregate nominal the number of ordinary shares in issue on 2 March 2009. amount of the issued share capital of the Company Purchases of shares will be made at the discretion of the as at 2 March 2009 such authority to expire at the Board and within guidelines set from time to time by the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Board and in the light of prevailing market conditions.
Company or the date 15 months after the passing of Purchases will only be made in the market at prices this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that this below the prevailing net asset value per share, thereby authority shall allow the Company to make offers or resulting in an increase in net asset value per share.
agreements before the expiry of this authority which Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2008 Page 53 Notice of Meeting 10.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and Notes: unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 1 A member of the Company entitled to attend and 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make vote at the Annual General Meeting may appoint market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 a proxy or proxies to attend and to speak and vote of the Act of shares of 25p each in the capital of the instead of him.
A member may appoint more than Company the shares provided that: one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised rights attached to a different share or shares held by to be purchased shall be 8,061,000: that member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
b the minimum price which may be paid for a share is 25p: 2 A Form of Proxy is enclosed and must be returned to the Registrars at the address on the form to arrive c the maximum price which may be paid for a share not later than 12 noon on 17 May 2009.
Completion is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a middle market quotations for a share taken from shareholder from subsequently attending the the London Stock Exchange Official List for the five meeting and voting in person if they so wish.
business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased: 3 To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, and any power of attorney or other authority under d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the which it is signed or a copy of any such authority conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of certified notarially or in some other way approved the Company unless such authority is renewed prior by the Directors, must be deposited with the to such time: and Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, P O Box 25, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4BR not less than 48 hours e the Company may make a contract to purchase before the time for holding the meeting or adjourned shares under the authority hereby conferred prior meeting or, in the case of a poll taken more than 48 to the expiry of such authority which will or may hours after it is demanded, not less than 24 hours be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of before the time appointed for the taking of the poll such authority and may make a purchase of shares at which it is to be used.
pursuant to any such contract.
4 In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who Resolution 11 is an ordinary resolution, which relates to tenders the vote shall be accepted to the exclusion the continuation of the Company as an investment trust.
of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order 11.
THAT the Company continue to carry on business in which the names stand in the Register of Members.
5 All members are entitled to attend and vote at the By Order of the Board Annual General Meeting.
FIL Investments International 6 Any person to whom this notice is sent who is Secretary a person nominated under Section 146 of the 23 March 2009 Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him and the member by whom he was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraph 1 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The right described in that paragraph can only be exercised by members of the Company.
Page 54 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2008 Notice of Meeting 7 If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy representative, a designated corporate representative appointments, is given discretion as to how the votes will be nominated, from those corporate which are the subject of those proxies are cast and representatives who attend, who will vote on a the voting rights in respect of those discretionary poll and the other corporate representatives will proxies, when added to the interests in the give voting directions to that designated corporate Companys securities already held by the Chairman, representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred result in the Chairman holding such number of voting to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered rights that he has a notifiable obligation under the Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Chairman corporate representatives www.
uk for will make the necessary notifications to the Company further details of this procedure.
The guidance and the Financial Services Authority.
As a result, any includes a sample form of representation letter member holding 3 per cent or more of the voting if the Chairman is being appointed as described rights in the Company who grants the Chairman in i above.
a discretionary proxy in respect of some or all of those voting rights and so would otherwise have 11 Shareholders and any proxies or representatives a notification obligation under the Disclosure they appoint understand that by attending the and Transparency Rules, need not make separate meeting that they are expressly agreeing that they notification to the Company and the Financial are willing to receive any communications, including Services Authority.
communications relating to the Companys securities, made at the meeting.
8 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company has 12 No Director has a service contract with the Company.
specified that to be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose Registered Office: Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower of determining the number of votes they may Kingswood, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP cast, members must be entered on the register of members by 6.00pm on 17 May 2009.
If the meeting is adjourned then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the register of members at 6.00pm on the day two days before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified in that notice.
9 As at 2 March 2009 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document the Companys issued share capital consisted of 53,781,221 ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company as at 2 March 2009 was 53,781,221.
10 In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2008 Page 55 Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC The Manager of the Company FIL Investments International offers a range of options, so that you can invest in the way that is best for you.
As Fidelity European Values PLC is a company listed on the London Stock Exchange you can also buy its shares through a stockbroker, share shop or bank.
Charges There are no charges for buying, selling or INVESTING INSIDE AN ISA holding shares through the Fidelity Investment Trust You may invest in the Companys shares through the Share Plan other than Stamp Duty of 0.5%, which is Fidelity ISA Individual Savings Account.
A Fidelity currently payable on all share purchases.
However, if ISA can be an excellent way to get more from your you invest through a Financial Adviser, there may be investment, because you will not have to pay income an initial charge of up to 3%.
or capital gains tax on your returns.
Holding shares directly If you have shares in Fidelity With effect from 6 April 2008 the distinction between European Values PLC that you bought through a broker Mini and Maxi ISAs has been removed and the maximum or share shop you can transfer them into the Fidelity investment in a stocks and shares ISA is 7,200.
Doing this allows you to reinvest your dividends and make further investments The minimum investment in the Fidelity ISA is 1,000 without having to pay brokerage fees.
You will also be as a lump sum, 250 as a top-up or 50 a month in a able to set up a monthly savings plan and receive regular savings plan.
statements and valuations twice a year.
Charges The standard initial charge for the Fidelity BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES - ISA is 3.5%.
Fidelity pays stamp duty from the initial INFORMATION RIGHTS charge.
There are no other charges for the Fidelity ISA, With effect from 1 October 2007 registered shareholders but the Company pays an annual management charge of fully listed companies are able to nominate the to Fidelity of 0.85% plus a performance related fee underlying beneficial owners of their shares to receive where applicable, as set out in the Annual Report.
You should There is an additional annual charge of 0.5% VAT contact your registered shareholder direct to request when you invest through a Financial Adviser.
to receive your information rights.
Please note that beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated MOVING MONEY FROM PREVIOUS ISAS by the registered holder of those shares to receive If you have opened ISAs or PEPs with other investment information rights under Section 146 of the Companies companies, you can move them into the Fidelity ISA Act 2006 are required to direct all communications to and invest in Fidelity European Values PLC without losing the registered holder of their shares rather than to the any tax benefits.
This is known as a transfer and it can Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, or to the be a great way to give your portfolio a new focus, or to Company direct.
realign it with your current investment goals.
Please note that during the transfer your money will not be invested INVESTING ONLINE in the stockmarket so you may miss out on any growth You can invest online in Fidelity European Values PLC during this time.
Fidelity ShareNetwork enables you to buy or sell shares in any Charges The standard initial charge for a transfer is listed company during normal London Stock Exchange 3.5%.
You will not have to pay any additional transfer trading hours between 8am and 4.30pm any working costs.
However, please bear in mind that your current day.
Shares in ShareNetwork can either be held direct ISA manager may ask you to pay an exit fee.
The annual or in an ISA, subject to the normal ISA limits and management charge is as described above in the restrictions.
You will be shown a live price and be able Investing inside an ISA section.
to buy or sell immediately.
If an order is placed when the market is closed, it will be processed as soon as INVESTING OUTSIDE AN ISA the market reopens.
Unlike many online share dealing If you prefer to invest outside an ISA, or have already services, Fidelity ShareNetwork gives you CREST used your full ISA allowance, the Fidelity Investment personal membership for shares held direct.
This Trust Share Plan offers you a low-cost and convenient means that shares are registered on the CREST system way to put money into Fidelity European Values PLC.
in your own name and everything relating to your shares The minimum investment is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 dividends, annual reports and so on will be sent as a top-up or 50 a month in a regular savings plan.
direct to you and you will be able to attend and vote at shareholder meetings in your own name.
Personal Investing for children the Share Plan is a flexible CREST membership does not apply to ISA holdings and inexpensive way to invest on behalf of children.
All which must be held in the name of the ISA managers you have to do is enter the initials or name of the child nominee under ISA regulations.
Fidelity ShareNetwork in the Designation Box on the Share Plan application has a very competitive cost structure.
A special leaflet on investing for children through sales are executed on line for only 9 per trade.
Stamp investment trusts is available from Fidelity.
duty is also payable on purchases at the rate of 0.5%.
Page 56 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2008 Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC There is an account administration fee of 5 per month, Share Plan investors however many different shares you own and whatever Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan, Equiniti Limited, their value.
PO Box 4605, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6QY.
Telephone: 0871 384 2781 CONTACT INFORMATION calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a Private investors: call free to 0800 41 41 10, BT landline.
Other telephony providers costs may vary.
formerly Lloyds TSB Registrars Financial advisers: call free to 0800 41 41 81, 8am to 6pm, Monday to Friday.
co. uk its Fidelity, using the freephone numbers given opposite, or by writing to: UK Customer Service, Fidelity Existing shareholders who have a specific query International, Oakhill House, 130 Tonbridge Road, regarding their holding or need to provide update Hildenborough, Tonbridge, Kent TN11 9DZ information, for example a change of address, should contact the appropriate administrator: General enquiries should be made to Fidelity, the Investment Manager and Secretary, at the Companys Holders of ordinary shares registered office: FIL Investments International Capita Registrars, Registrars to Fidelity European Investment Trusts, Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Values PLC, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Kingswood, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield, West Yorkshire HD8 0GA.
Telephone: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute ONLINE SHAREHOLDER SERVICES SHARE PORTAL plus network extras.
If calling from overseas, telephone Through the website of our Registrar, Capita Registrars, 44 208 639 3399.
com shareholders are able to manage their shareholding online by registering for the Share Portal, a free, secure, Capita Share Dealing Services You can make use online access to your shareholding.
Facilities include: of a low cost share dealing service provided by Capita Registrars to buy or sell shares.
Further information isAccount Enquiry - Allows shareholders to access available at www.
com, or by telephoning their personal shareholding, including share 0871 664 0454 calls cost 10p per minute plus network transaction history, dividend payment history and extras.
Using Capita Share Dealing Services you will to obtain an up-to-date shareholding valuation: also be able to deal in the shares of other companies for which Capita acts as registrar, provided you are already aAmendment of Standing Data - Allows shareholders shareholder in the relevant company, and that company to change their registered postal address and add, offers the Share Deal facility to its shareholders.
change or delete dividend mandate instructions.
Shareholders can also download from this site Dividend Reinvestment Plan This is a convenient forms such as change of address, stock transfer way to build up your shareholding by using your cash and dividend mandate forms as well as buy and dividends to buy more shares in the Company.
If you sell shares in the Company.
would prefer to receive shares for your next dividend instead of cash please complete an application form To make use of any of these facilities, please online at www.
com or call Capita IRG log on to the Capita Registrars website at: Trustees on 0871 664 0381 calls cost 10p per minute www.
com plus network extras from the UK or 44 208 639 3402 from overseas.
Should you have any queries in respect of the above facilities, please do not hesitate to contact the Capita ShareGift You may donate your shares to charity free of Share Portal helpline on 0871 664 0391 calls cost 10p charge through ShareGift.
Further details are available at plus network extras, overseas 44 20 8639 3367, or www.
uk or by telephoning 020 7930 3737. by e-mail at shareportal@capita.
co. uk KEEPING YOU UPDATED If you hold Fidelity European Values PLC shares in an ISA, you will receive a yearly report detailing all of your transactions and the value of your shares.
Investors with the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan will receive statements and valuations twice a year.
The share price of Fidelity European Values PLC appears daily in The Financial Times.
Price and performance information is also available at fidelity.
co. uk its You can also obtain current price information by phoning FT Cityline on 0906 843 0000, selecting option 2 and entering 2287 calls charged at 60p per minute on a per second basis from a BT landline.
Charges from other telephone networks may vary.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2008 Page 57 Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC FURTHER INFORMATION For application forms or more information about any of the investment options described here, please call the Fidelity Investment Trust Line on 0800 41 41 10 and talk to a Fidelity customer representative 9am to 6pm Monday to Saturday.
Alternatively, you may like to visit the Fidelity London Investor Centre at 25 Cannon Street, next to St Pauls Cathedral.
You can also find out more by visiting fidelity.
co. uk its or contacting your Financial Adviser.
"The Fidelity Individual Savings Account ""ISA"" is offered and managed by Financial Administration Services Limited."
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is managed by FIL Investments International.
Both companies are regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is administered by Equiniti Limited formerly Lloyds TSB Registrars and shares will be held in the name of Lloyds TSB Registrars Savings Nominees Limited.
The value of savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change in the future.
Fidelity investment trusts are managed by FIL Investments International.
Fidelity only gives information about its own products and services and does not provide investment advice based on individual circumstances.
Should you wish to seek advice, please contact a Financial Adviser.
Please note that the value of investments and the income from them may fall as well as rise and the investor may not get back the amount originally invested.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
For funds that invest in overseas markets, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the value of your investment.
Investing in small and emerging markets can be more volatile than older developed markets.
Reference in this document to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities, but is included for the purposes of illustration only.
Investors should also note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon by Fidelity.
Issued by Fidelity European Values PLC Fidelity, Fidelity International and the Pyramid logo are trademarks of FIL Limited.
WARNING TO SHAREHOLDERS - BOILER ROOM SCAMS Over the last year, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive, and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has reported that the average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting www.
uk register Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visiting www.
uk If the calls persist, hang up.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.
uk CB35483 NA Page 58 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2008 The printing inks used for this report are made from vegetable based oils and 95% of cleaning solvents are recycled for further use.
The electricity was all generated from renewable sources and on average 87% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
Printed using pureprint environmental print technology by a CarbonNeutral company, registered to the Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 and EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This document is printed on Revive 50:50, a paper containing 50% recovered fibre & 50% virgin fibre.
Pulps used are elemental chlorine free, manufactured Cert no.
SGS-COC-0620 at a mill with the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System.
