General information Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC is an investment company incorporated in the United Kingdom with a listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company registration number is 1055384 and the registered office is Exchange House, Primrose Street, London, EC2A 2NY, England.
The Company conducts its affairs so as to qualify as an investment trust under the provisions of Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Approval of the Company under Section 842 has been received subject to there being no subsequent enquiry in respect of the year ended 30 September 2007 and all previous applicable financial years.
Such approval exempts the Company from UK corporation tax on gains realised in the relevant year on its portfolio of fixed asset investments.
SiGnificant accountinG policieS a Basis of accounting The financial statements of the Company have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, modified to include fixed asset investments at fair value, and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, Accounting Standards applicable in the United Kingdom and with the Revised Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies SORP issued in December 2005. b Principal accounting policies The policies set out below have been applied consistently throughout the year.
i Fixed asset investments As an investment trust, the Company measures its fixed asset investments at fair value through profit or loss and treats all transactions on the realisation and revaluation of investments, as transactions on the capital account.
Purchases are recognised on the relevant trade date, inclusive of expenses which are incidental to their acquisition.
Sales are also recognised on the trade date, after deducting expenses incidental to the sales.
Quoted investments are valued at bid value at the close of business on the relevant date on the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
Investments which are not quoted or which are not frequently traded are stated at Directors best estimate of fair value.
In arriving at their estimate, the Directors make use of recognised valuation techniques and may take account of recent arms length transactions in the same or similar investment instruments.
Where no reliable fair value can be estimated, investments may be carried at cost less any provision for impairment.
ii Borrowings Loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of issue costs, irrespective of the duration of the instrument.
Finance charges, including interest, are accrued using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period.
See v below for allocation of finance charges within the Income Statement.
iii Foreign currency The functional and reporting currency of the Company is pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are expressed in sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Purchases and sales of investment securities, dividend income, interest income and expenses are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the respective dates of such transactions.
Foreign exchange profits and losses on fixed asset investments are included within the changes in fair value in the capital account.
Foreign exchange profits and losses on other currency balances are separately credited or charged to the capital account except where they relate to revenue items.
SiGnificant accountinG policieS continued iv Income Income from equity shares is brought into the revenue account except where, in the opinion of the Directors, its nature indicates it should be recognised as within the capital account on the ex-dividend date or, where no ex-dividend date is quoted, when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Fixed returns on non-equity shares and debt securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on the investment.
Dividends are accounted for in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 16 Current Taxation on the basis of income actually receivable, without adjustment for the tax credit attaching to the dividends.
Dividends from overseas companies are shown gross of withholding tax.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash scrip dividends, the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised in capital reserves.
v Expenses, including finance charges Expenses, including finance charges, are charged to the revenue account of the Income Statement, except for expenses incidental to the acquisition or disposal of fixed asset investments which are included within the cost of the investments or deducted from the disposal proceeds of investments and are thus charged to capital reserve realised via the capital account.
All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
vi Taxation Deferred tax is provided in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 19 Deferred Tax on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable profits from which the future reversal of timing differences can be deducted.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate the tax relief on expenses charged to capital is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses charged through the revenue account, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital account.
vii Capital redemption reserve The nominal value of ordinary share capital purchased and cancelled is transferred out of called-up share capital and into the capital redemption reserve.
viii Capital reserves Capital reserve realised The following are accounted for in this reserve: gains and losses on the realisation of fixed asset investments: realised foreign exchange differences of a capital nature: costs of professional advice, including related irrecoverable VAT, relating to the capital structure of the Company: other capital charges and credits charged or credited to this account in accordance with the above policies: and costs of purchasing ordinary share capital.
Capital reserve unrealised The following are accounted for in this reserve: increases and decreases in the valuation of fixed asset investments held at the year end: and unrealised foreign exchange differences of a capital nature.
