Information for Shareholders Net asset value and share price Shareholders in doubt as to their CGT position The Companys net asset value per share is released should consult their professional advisers.
daily, on the working day following the calculation date, to the London Stock Exchange.
Income tax The current share price of Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust The special dividend declared and the recommended PLC is shown in the investment trust or investment final dividend are payable in December 2008.
Individual companies section of the stock market page in most UK resident shareholders who are subject to UK leading newspapers, usually under For&Col Euro.
income tax at the basic rate have no further tax liability.
Investors in New Zealand can obtain share prices from Shareholders not resident in the UK, and any leading newspapers in that country.
shareholders in doubt as to their tax position, should consult their professional advisers.
Performance information Information on the Companys performance is provided Association of Investment Companies AIC in the half-yearly and final reports which are sent to Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC is a member of the shareholders in May and November respectively, and AIC, which publishes monthly statistical information in in the interim management statement announcements.
The publication also More up-to-date performance information is available has details of investment plans available.
For further on the internet at www.
com details, please contact the AIC on 020 7282 5555, or This website also provides a monthly update on the visit the website www.
co. uk Companys largest holdings, downloadable factsheets and fund manager commentary.
UK capital gains tax CGT An approved investment trust does not pay tax on capital gains.
UK resident individuals may realise net capital gains of up to 9,600 in the tax year ending 5 April 2009 without incurring any tax liability.
Taper relief and indexation allowances were abolished with effect from 6 April 2008 in favour of a single rate of charge to CGT of 18%.
