Appendix: Summary of the proposed material changes to the articles of association of the Company 1. electronic and web communicationS greater flexibility due to the current number of The New Articles allow communications to directors on the Board.
members in electronic format and permit the Company to take advantage of the provisions in 4. proxieS the Companies Act 2006 CA2006 relating to The time limits for the appointment of proxies website communications.
have also been altered by the CA2006 so weekends and bank holidays can be excluded Various provisions are included in the New for the purposes of the timing for delivery of Articles to allow the Company to communicate proxies.
Multiple proxies may be appointed with shareholders via electronic means and to provided that each proxy is appointed to give the Directors the discretion to use electronic exercise the rights attached to different shares communications to distribute notices of held by the shareholder.
The New Articles meetings, annual reports and accounts.
2. form of reSolutionS and 5. corporate repreSentativeS conveninG meetinGS The CA2006 permits a corporate shareholder The existing articles contain provisions referring to appoint multiple corporate representatives to extraordinary resolutions and extraordinary who can attend, speak, vote and count towards general meetings.
With effect from 1 October a quorum at any general meeting.
The New 2007 these concepts have been abolished under Articles reflect these provisions of the CA2006.
Meetings of shareholders other than annual general meetings are referred to simply as 6. conflictS of intereSt general meetings.
Any resolution requiring a 75% The New Articles shall reflect the new provisions majority will be a special resolution.
of the CA2006 in relation to directors conflicts of The provisions of the existing articles dealing interests which came into force on 1 October 2008. with the convening of general meetings and The CA2006 sets out directors general duties annual general meetings and the length of notice which largely codify the existing law but with required to convene such meetings are amended some changes.
Under the CA2006, from 1 in the New Articles to conform to the new October 2008, a director must avoid a situation provisions of the CA2006.
In particular, general where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect meetings to consider special resolutions can now interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the be convened on 14 clear days notice whereas Companys interests.
The requirement is very previously 21 clear days notice was required.
broad and could apply, for example, if a director The annual general meeting of the Company still becomes a director of another company, an requires 21 clear days notice.
advisor to the Company or a trustee of another organisation.
The CA2006 allows directors of 3. quorum public companies to authorise conflicts and In the New Articles, the quorum requirement for potential conflicts, where appropriate, insofar as general meetings and annual general meetings the articles of association contain a provision has been amended from three persons to two to this effect.
The CA2006 also allows articles qualifying members in order to take account to contain other provisions for dealing with of the change in CA2006, which clarifies that directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach corporate representatives can be included in the of duty.
There are safeguards in the New Articles which The New Articles also amend the default will apply when Directors decide whether to quorum requirement for Board meetings from authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, three persons to two persons in order to provide only Directors who have no interest in the matter 56 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC being considered will be able to take the relevant officer of the Company subject to applicable decision, and second, in taking the decision, law.
The New Articles take advantage of the the Directors must act in a way they consider, new wording in the CA2006 relating to in good faith, will be most likely to promote directors indemnities, to the extent applicable the Companys success.
The Directors will be to the Company, and reflect the current market able to impose limits or conditions when giving standard provisions which have evolved since authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
the existing indemnity provisions were adopted.
It is also proposed that the New Articles 10. chairmanS caStinG vote contain provisions relating to confidential Although the CA2006 precludes the chairmans information, attendance at board meetings and casting vote provision, this can be retained in the the availability of board papers to protect a New Articles since, prior to the commencement Director being in breach of duty if a conflict of of the relevant provisions of the CA2006, the interest or a potential conflict of interest arises.
Company had such a provision in its articles.
It is the Boards intention to report annually on the Companys procedures for ensuring that 11. reGiSter of memberS the Boards powers to authorise conflicts are The current articles provide that the register operating effectively.
of members shall not be closed for more than It is proposed that the New Articles will contain 30 days in any year.
The CA2006 repeals the provisions giving the Directors authority to provisions of the Companies Act 1985 which approve situations involving Directors conflicts allow a company to close the register of of interest and to allow conflicts of interest to be members with the result that the register must be dealt with by the Board.
open for inspection at all times.
The New Articles reflect this provision.
7. periodic retirement The Combined Code on Corporate Governance 12. requirementS for reGiStration of recommends that directors must submit tranSfer and refuSal to tranSfer themselves for election by shareholders The existing articles provide that the Directors at the first annual general meeting after their may refuse to register a transfer of any certificated appointment and to re-election thereafter at share in their absolute discretion and without intervals of no more than three years.
The New assigning any reason for the refusal.
The CA2006 Articles reflect these provisions.
introduces a new requirement for companies to These provisions will also allow the Board to register transfers or to provide the transferee with implement a policy whereby each director will reasons for refusal as soon as possible.
The New submit themselves for re-election at each annual Articles reflect this new requirement.
13. creSt and the uncertificated SecuritieS reGulationS 8. aGe of directorS on appointment The New Articles reflect the Uncertificated Securities The current articles contain a provision limiting Regulations 2001 and the CA2006 provisions by the age at which a Director can be appointed.
permitting shareholders holding uncertificated Such a provision could now fall foul of the shares to appoint, instruct, amend and revoke proxy Employment Equality Age Regulations 2006 appointments using the CREST system.
and have, accordingly, been removed from the New Articles.
14. articleS that duplicate Statutory proviSionS 9. indemnity of officerS and inSurance Certain other provisions in the current articles The existing articles already provide for the which replicate provisions contained in Company to indemnify any Director or other Report and Accounts 2008 57 Appendix: Summary of the proposed material changes to the articles of association of the Company continued companies legislation are amended to bring them into line with the CA2006.
15. ordinary buSineSS Given the nature of the Company, the definition of ordinary business has been extended in the New Articles to include the granting, renewal or variation of any authority to allot securities in the Company, the disapplication of pre-emption rights and the renewal of share buyback authority as ordinary business when it is transacted at an annual general meeting of the Company as these resolutions are routinely proposed at the Companys annual general meetings.
