Notes on the Accounts continued 23. related party tranSactionS The following are considered related parties: the Board of Directors the Board and F&C Management Limited the Manager and the beneficial interests of the Directors in the ordiinary shares of the Company as disclosed.
There are no transactions with the Board other than aggregated remuneration for services as Directors as disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 25, and as set out in note 6 on the accounts.
There are no outstanding balances with the Board at the year end.
Transactions between the Company and the Manager are detailed in note 4 on management fees, note 5 on recoverable VAT and in note 11, where stock lending fees and investments managed and advised by the Manager are disclosed.
24. financial riSk manaGement The Company is an investment company, listed on the London Stock Exchange, and conducts its affairs so as to qualify in the United Kingdom UK as an investment trust under the provisions of Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
In so qualifying, the Company is exempted in the UK from corporation tax on capital gains on its portfolio of investments.
The Companys investment objective is to achieve long-term capital growth through a diversified portfolio of Continental European securities.
In pursuing this objective, the Company is exposed to financial risks which could result in a reduction of either or both of the value of the net assets and the profits available for distribution by way of dividend.
These financial risks are principally related to the market currency movements, interest rate changes and security price movements, liquidity and credit.
The Board, together with the Manager, is responsible for the Companys risk management, as set out in detail in the Directors Report and Business Review.
The Directors policies and processes for managing the financial risks are set out in a, b and c below.
The accounting policies which govern the reported balance sheet carrying values of the underlying financial assets and liabilities, as well as the related income and expenditure, are set out in note 2 on the accounts.
The policies are in compliance with UK Accounting Standards and best practice and include the valuation of financial assets and liabilities at fair value.
The Company does not make use of hedge accounting rules.
a Market risks The fair value of equity and other financial securities held in the Companys portfolio fluctuates with changes in market prices.
Prices are themselves affected by movements in currencies and interest rates and by other financial issues, including the market perception of future risks.
The Board sets policies for managing these risks within the Companys objective and meets regularly to review full, timely and relevant information on investment performance and financial results.
The Manager assesses exposure to market risks when making each investment decision and monitors ongoing market risk within the portfolio.
The Companys other assets and liabilities may be denominated in currencies other than sterling and may also be exposed to interest rate risks.
The Manager and the Board regularly monitor these risks.
The Company does not normally hold significant cash balances.
Borrowings are limited to amounts and currencies commensurate with the portfolios exposure to those currencies, thereby limiting the Companys exposure to future changes in foreign exchange rates.
Gearing may be short or long-term in foreign currencies, and enables the Company to take a long-term view of the countries and markets in which it is invested without having to be concerned about short-term volatility.
Income earned in foreign currencies is converted to sterling on receipt.
The Board regularly monitors the effects on net revenue of interest earned on deposits and paid on gearing.
Currency exposure The principal currencies to which the Company was exposed during the year were the euro, Swiss franc, Norwegian krone and Swedish krona.
The exchange rates applying against sterling at 30 September and the average rates during the year ended 30 September were as follows: 2008 2007 Average for Average for At 30 September the year At 30 September the year Euro 1.2690 1.3171 1.4008 1.4783 1.9987 2.1380 Swiss franc 2.3800 2.4038 Norwegian krone 10.5384 10.5125 11.0471 11.9638 Swedish krona 12.4286 12.3858 13.1798 13.6211 46 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC
