Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the thirty sixth annual such expiry the Directors may allot relevant general meeting of the Company will be held at securities and or equity securities in pursuance Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2NY of such offers or agreements: on Wednesday 17 December 2008 at 11 a. m. for the b all authorities and powers previously following purposes: conferred under Section 80 or Section 95 of the Act be and they are hereby revoked, Ordinary business provided that such revocation shall not have 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors report and retrospective effect: accounts for the year ended 30 September 2008. c words and expressions defined in or for the 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
purposes of Part IV of the Act shall bear the 3.
same meanings in this resolution: and 4.
To re-elect Mr D C P McDougall as a Director.
d references in this resolution to the Act, or to 5.
To re-elect Mr R Kanza as a Director.
sections of the Act, shall, where appropriate, 6.
To re-elect Mr M B Moule as a Director.
include references to the Companies Act 7.
To re-appoint  LLP as 2006 and any corresponding or similar auditors to the Company.
sections of that act, it being the intention 8.
To authorise the Directors to determine the that, to the extent permitted by law, the remuneration of the auditors.
authorities and powers contained in this resolution shall continue in full force and Special business effect notwithstanding any repeal of the Act To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following or any relevant part or section thereof.
THAT: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following a the Directors be and they are hereby: resolution as a special resolution: i generally and unconditionally authorised, 10.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally in accordance with Section 80 of the and unconditionally authorised in accordance Companies Act 1985 the Act, to with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 exercise all the powers of the Company the Act to make market purchases within the to allot relevant securities as defined by meaning of Section 163 of the Act of ordinary that section up to an aggregate nominal shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company amount of 605,415 during the period ordinary shares on such terms and in such commencing on the date of the passing manner as the Directors may from time to time of this resolution and expiring at the determine, provided that: conclusion of the annual general meeting a the maximum number of ordinary shares of the Company in 2009: and hereby authorised to be purchased shall be ii empowered, pursuant to Section 95 of 7,260,137: the Act, to allot equity securities within b the minimum price which may be paid for an the meaning of section 94 of the Act ordinary share shall be 25p: pursuant to the authority referred to in c the maximum price exclusive of expenses paragraph a i of this resolution as if which may be paid for an ordinary share is Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to an amount equal to 105% of the average any such allotment: of the middle market quotations for an but so that this authority and power shall enable ordinary share as derived from the London the Company to make offers or agreements Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the which would or might require relevant securities five business days immediately preceding or equity securities to be allotted after the expiry the date on which the ordinary share is of this authority and power and notwithstanding contracted to be purchased: Report and Accounts 2008 53 CITY ROAD Y R. T S X U E S E C ST. L D B I D I M WORSHIP STREET R SUN STREET SOUTH ELDON PLACE STREET LIVERPOOL STREET STATION LONDON WALL S EXCHANGE SQUARE LIVERPOOL PRIMROSE STREET CHISWELL STREET C F NSBURY SQUARE N FINSBURY SQUARE WORSHIP STREET U MOORGATE BROADGATE CIRCLE Notice of Annual General Meeting Location of meeting d the minimum and maximum prices per ordinary EXCHANGE HOUSE share referred to in sub-paragraphs b and c of this resolution are in each case exclusive of any expenses payable by the Company: e the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the date which is 18 months after the passing of this resolution, unless such authority is varied, revoked or renewed prior to such BROADGATE time by the Company in general meeting by special resolution: f the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be completed or Notes: executed wholly or partly after the expiry of Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only shareholders registered on the register of members of the such authority: and Company at 11 p. m. on 15 December 2008 the specified time shall g references in this resolution to the Act, or to be entitled to attend and vote or be represented at the meeting in respect of the shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes sections of the Act, shall where the context to entries on the register of members after the specified time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote requires and where appropriate, include at the meeting.
references to the Companies Act 2006 and any If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after corresponding or similar sections of that act, it the time applicable to the original meeting, the specified time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of being the intention that, to the extent permitted members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining by law, the authority and powers contained in the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If, however, the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be this resolution shall continue in full force and so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register effect notwithstanding any repeal of the Act or of members at 11 p. m. on the day which is two days before the day of the adjourned meeting, or, if the Company gives notice of the any relevant part or section thereof.
adjourned meeting, at any time specified in that notice.
A member entitled to attend, speak and vote at the meeting may To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of him her.
The proxy form includes details on how to appoint resolution as a special resolution: more than one proxy.
You may not appoint more than one proxy 11.
THAT the draft regulations the New Articles to exercise rights attached to any one share.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
If the Chairman, as a result of any produced to the meeting and, for the purposes proxy appointments, is given discretion as to how the votes the subject of those proxies are cast and the voting rights in respect of identification, initialled by the Chairman of the of those discretionary proxies, when added to the interests in meeting be adopted as the articles of association the Companys securities already held by the Chairman, result in the Chairman holding such number of voting rights that he has of the Company in substitution for, and to a notifiable obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency the entire exclusion of, the existing articles of Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary notifications to the Company and the Financial Services Authority.
As a result, any association of the Company.
person holding 3% or more of the voting rights in the Company who grants the Chairman a discretionary proxy in respect of some or all of those voting rights and so would otherwise have a notification obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, need not make a separate notification to the Company and the Financial Services Authority.
Any such person holding 3% or By order of the Board Registered office: more of the voting rights in the Company who appoints a person F&C Management Limited Exchange House other than the Chairman as his proxy will need to ensure that both Secretary Primrose Street he and such third party complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
5 November 2008 London EC2A 2NY As at 4 November 2008, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Company had 48,433,206 ordinary shares in issue with a total of 48,433,206 voting rights.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman 54 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC I S F BISHOPSGATE O P L P D A S T SHOREDITCH CURTA N ROAD TABERNACLE STREET MOORGATE WILSON STREET BLOMFIELD ST. R E BROAD STREET E T W LSON STREET W I L S O T N E E STR GATE FINSBURY SQUARE FINSBURY SQUARE B I S H OPS as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a been nominated to receive communications from the Company poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to in accordance with section 147 of the Companies Act 2006 the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under corporate representative in accordance with those directions: an agreement with the registered shareholder who holds the and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not shareholder has not appointed the Chairman as its corporate have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a representative, a designated corporate representative will be right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will The register of Directors holdings, Directors terms of appointment give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
letters and a deed poll in relation to Directors indemnities are Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the available for inspection at the registered office of the Company Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies during normal business hours on any weekday and will be and corporate representatives www.
uk for further available at the place of the meeting from 15 minutes prior to the details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form commencement of the meeting until the conclusion thereof.
No of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as Director has any contract of service with the Company.
A copy of the articles of association of the Company as proposed This notice of meeting does not include an electronic address to be adopted with effect from the passing of resolution 11 will be for the Company, and accordingly all documents or information available for inspection at Royal London House, 22-25 Finsbury sent to the Company in relation to proceedings at this meeting, or Square, London EC2A 1DX and at the registered office of the proxies for the meeting, must be in hard copy form.
Company from the date of this notice until the conclusion of the To be valid, a form of proxy for use at the meeting and the power annual general meeting and on the date of the annual general of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, or a meeting at the annual general meeting 15 minutes prior to the start notarially certified or office copy of such power or authority, must until the conclusion of the meeting.
be deposited with the Companys registrars, Computershare The members of the Company may require the Company to Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol publish, on its website, a statement setting out any matter relating BS99 6ZY, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for to the audit of the Companys accounts, including the auditors the holding of the meeting.
report and the conduct of the audit.
The Company will be required Investors holding shares in the Company through the F&C to do so once it has received such requests from either members savings plans should ensure that forms of direction are returned representing at least 5% of the total voting rights of the Company to Computershare Investor Services PLC not later than 96 hours or at least 100 members who have a relevant right to vote and before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
hold shares in the Company on which there has been paid up an average sum per member of at least 100.
