26 Financial Risk Management continued c Credit Risk and counterparty exposure The Company is exposed to potential failure by counterparties to deliver securities for which the Company has paid, or to pay for securities which the Company has delivered.
The Board approves all counterparties used in such transactions, which must be settled on the basis of delivery against payment except where local market conditions do not permit.
A list of pre-approved counterparties is maintained and regularly reviewed by the Manager and the Board.
Broker counterparties are selected based on a combination of criteria, including credit rating, balance sheet strength and membership of a relevant regulatory body.
The rate of default in the past has been negligible.
Payments in respect of private equity investments are made only to counterparties with whom a contracted commitment exists.
Cash and deposits are held with approved banks.
The Company has an ongoing contract with its custodian for the provision of custody services.
The contract is reviewed regularly.
Details of securities held in custody on behalf of the Company are received and reconciled monthly.
To the extent that F&C Management Limited F&C carries out management and administrative duties or causes similar duties to be carried out by third parties on the Companys behalf, the Company is exposed to counterparty risk.
The Board assesses this risk continuously through regular meetings with the management of F&C including the Fund Manager and with F&Cs Internal Audit function, which function carries out annual audits of F&Cs appointed sub-managers.
In reaching its conclusions, the Board also reviews F&Cs parent groups annual Audit and Assurance Faculty Report, Group Accounts and other public information indicative of its financial position and performance.
The Company had no credit-rated bonds or similar securities in its portfolio at the year end 2007: none and does not normally invest in them.
None of the Companys financial liabilities are past their due date or impaired.
d Fair Values of financial assets and liabilities The assets and liabilities of the Company are, in the opinion of the Directors, reflected in the balance sheet at fair value, or at a reasonable approximation thereof, except for the debenture which is carried at par value in accordance with FRS4.
The fair value of the debenture, derived from their quoted market price at 31 December 2008 was 150,735,000 2007: 143,772,000.
Borrowings under loan facilities are short-term in nature and hence do not have a value materially different from their capital repayment amount.
Borrowings in foreign currencies are converted into Sterling at exchanges rates ruling at each valuation date.
Unquoted investments, including private equity investments, are valued based on professional assumptions and advice that is not wholly supported by prices from current market transactions or by observable market data.
The Directors make use of recognised valuation techniques and may take account of recent arms length transactions in the same or similar investments.
With respect specifically to investments in private equity funds or partnerships, the Directors rely on valuations of the underlying unlisted investments as supplied by the managers of those private equity funds or partnerships.
The Directors regularly review the principles applied by the managers to those valuations to ensure they comply with the Companys accounting policies and with fair value principles.
e Capital Risk Management The objective of the Company is stated as being to provide shareholders with long-term growth in capital and income.
In pursuing this long-term objective, the Board has a responsibility for ensuring the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
It must therefore maintain an optimal capital structure through varying market conditions.
This involves the ability to: issue and buy back share capital within limits set by the shareholders in general meeting: borrow monies in the short and long term: and pay dividends to shareholders out of current year revenue earnings as well as out of brought forward revenue reserves.
Changes to ordinary share capital are set out in note 18 on the accounts.
Dividend payments are set out in note 10 on the accounts.
Borrowings are set out in notes 14 and 17 on the accounts.
27 Post Balance Sheet Movement in Net Assets The NAV per share debt at par on 4 March 2009 was 214.01p 31 December 2008: 262.50p Report and Accounts 2008 65
