Information for Shareholders Net asset value and share price Income tax The Companys net asset value is released daily, on The proposed final dividend of 3.45 pence per share the working day following the calculation date, to the is payable on 8 May 2009.
Individual UK resident London Stock Exchange.
The current share price of shareholders who are subject to UK income tax at Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust is shown in the the lower rate or the basic rate have no further tax investment trust section of the stockmarket page liability.
Shareholders not resident in the UK, and any in most leading newspapers, usually under For & shareholders in doubt as to their tax position, should Col. Investors in New Zealand can obtain share consult their professional advisers.
prices from leading newspapers in that country.
Association of Investment Companies AIC Performance information Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust is a member Information on the Companys performance is of the AIC, which publishes a monthly statistical provided in the half-yearly and final reports which information service in respect of member companies.
are sent to shareholders in August and March The publication also has details of ISA and other respectively and in the interim management statement investment plans available.
For further details, please announcements.
More up-to-date performance contact the AIC on 020 7282 5555, or visit the information, including the full list of investments in the website: www.
portfolio as at the most recent quarter end, is available on the Internet at www.
com also provides a monthly update on the Companys geographic spread and largest holdings, along with comments from the Fund Manager.
UK capital gains tax CGT An approved investment trust does not pay tax on capital gains.
UK resident individuals may realise net capital gains of up to 9,600 in the tax year ended 5 April 2009 without incurring any tax liability.
Taper relief and indexation allowances were abolished with effect from 6 April 2008 in favour of a single rate of charge to CGT of 18%.
Shareholders in doubt as to their CGT position should consult their professional advisers.
68 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
