Significant accounting policies continued iv Income Income from equity shares is brought into the revenue account except where, in the opinion of the Directors, its nature indicates it should be recognised as within the capital account on the ex-dividend date or, where no ex-dividend date is quoted, when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Fixed returns on nonequity shares and debt securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on the investment.
Dividends are accounted for in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 16 Current Taxation FRS16 on the basis of income actually receivable, without adjustment for the tax credit attaching to the dividends.
Dividends from overseas companies continue to be shown gross of withholding tax.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash scrip dividends, the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised in capital reserves.
v Expenses, including finance charges Expenses are charged to the Revenue Account of the Income Statement, except as noted below: expenses incidental to the acquisition or disposal of fixed assets investments are included within the cost of the investments or deducted from the disposal proceeds of investments and are thus charged to capital reserve realised via the capital account: 100% of management fees, invoiced to the Company in respect of certain Private Equity investments, are allocated to capital reserves, via the capital account, in accordance with the Boards long-term expected split of returns from those investments: 50% of other management fees, and 50% of finance costs both net of applicable tax relief are allocated to capital reserves via the capital account, in accordance with the Boards long-term expected split of returns from the investment portfolio excluding private equity investments of the Company: and 100% of the performance-related management fees, as is directly attributable to the returns from investments recognised in the capital account in the period, is allocated to capital reserves.
Details of the performancerelated fee calculation are set out in note 4 on the accounts.
All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
vi Taxation Deferred tax is provided in accordance with FRS19 on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable profits from which the future reversal of timing differences can be deducted.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate the tax relief on expenses charged to capital is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses charged through the revenue account, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital account.
vii Capital Redemption Reserve The nominal value of Ordinary share capital repurchased for cancellation is transferred out of Share Capital and into the Capital Redemption Reserve.
viii Capital Reserves Capital reserve arising on investments sold The following are accounted for in this reserve: gains and losses on the disposal of fixed asset investments: realised exchange differences of a capital nature: costs of professional advice, including related irrecoverable VAT, relating to the capital structure of the Company: other capital charges and credits charged or credited to this account in accordance with the above policies: and costs of repurchasing ordinary share capital.
Capital reserve arising on investments held The following are accounted for in this reserve: increases and decreases in the valuation of fixed asset investments held at the year end: and unrealised exchange differences of a capital nature.
