the Company and to its investment trust business Board expects that the total dividend for the year in general.
The resources, people and experience 2009 will at least be maintained.
available and the quality of advice offered on a wide range of subjects were all important factors GENERAL INFORMATION in the decision to continue with F&C as Manager.
Voting rights All the services provided to the Company, including At 4 March 2009 the Company had 678,919,714 secretarial, accounting and marketing, had been ordinary shares in issue with a total of 678,919,714 professionally and efficiently delivered.
As at that date the Company received The future of F&C and its ability to deliver the notification of the following holdings of voting rights benefits envisaged under its reinvestment under the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules : programme announced in January 2007 and achieve Legal & General Group plc 4.0% its stated ambition of reaching top quartile in all The above percentage is calculated by applying the shareholding as notified to the Company to the issued ordinary share capital as at areas of its business will continue to be important.
The Board will continue to monitor developments and progress at F&C with regard to Friends The Manager holds 37.4% of the Companys Providents proposed distribution of its 52% holding share capital on behalf of non-discretionary clients to its shareholders.
It will also monitor F&Cs ability to through its savings plans.
It is intended that the attract and retain talented individual fund managers, nominee company holding these shares will vote both internally and externally, and to continue with the shares held on behalf of planholders who have improvements made in stock selection and overall not returned their voting directions in proportion to investment performance.
This will be particularly the directions of those who have.
Implementation of important in North America.
The ongoing challenge this arrangement is subject to a minimum threshold for F&C will be that of maintaining the good longof 5% of the shares held in the savings plans being term investment performance of the Company.
A maximum limit of 630,000 shares that any one individual investor can vote, being approximately The Boards priorities for 2009 5% of the minimum threshold, will also apply.
The Board considers its priorities and sets its Any shares voted by an investor in excess of the objectives for the year ahead as part of its annual maximum limit will remain valid, but will not form part appraisal process.
The overriding priority remains of the proportional voting basis.
Planholders have the consistent achievement of relative outperformance, right to exclude their shares from the proportional adding value for shareholders through a virtuous voting arrangement.
circle of net asset value and share price total return, discount management, dividend growth, a low Charitable donations and competitive total expense ratio and effective It is the Boards policy not to make charitable donations, marketing.
Investment performance will continue to as the role of an investment trust is somewhat different be monitored closely, particularly with regard to the from most other types of companies and as taxation relative underperformance in North America.
The incentives towards charitable donations are balanced Board will continue to test the Managers marketing in favour of direct contributions by individuals rather strategy to ensure that the Company is receiving than companies.
Therefore, no such contributions were value for money and is continuing to be promoted made during the year.
effectively, in order to generate demand by attracting new investors whilst retaining existing shareholders.
Independent auditors So far as each of the Directors is aware, Future prospects there is no relevant audit information of which The outlook for the Company is reported in the  LLP the Auditors Chairmans Statement on pages 5 and 6 and in the are unaware.
The Directors believe that they have Fund Managers Review on pages 13 and 14.
The taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Report and Accounts 2008 27 Directors Report and Business Review continued Directors in order to make themselves aware of any enable the Company to implement the following relevant audit information and to establish that the changes to its articles of association: Auditors are aware of the information.
a removing, with effect from 1 October 2009, those The Auditors have indicated their willingness to provisions of the memorandum of association continue in office and resolutions will be proposed at that will, from that date, be treated as part of its the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint them and articles under section 28 CA 2006 : determine their remuneration Resolutions 9 and 10. b abolition of authorised share capital, also with effect from 1 October 2009: and Articles of association c authorising a general meeting other than an It is proposed to amend the articles of association annual general meeting to be held on 14 days of the Company in order to reflect certain changes rather than 21 days notice.
made or to be made to the law by the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006.
The remaining provisions of Annual General Meeting the Companies Act 2006 are due to come into force Shareholders will have received a separate enclosure in October 2009.
In addition, various regulations that containing explanatory information and the Notice of relate to certain of these provisions have yet to be the Annual General Meeting the Meeting to be held finalised.
Consequently, it will be necessary for the at Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, Company to undertake a further review of its articles London EC2 on 1 May 2009 at 12 noon.
In addition to of association in due course in order to reflect these the ordinary business of the Meeting, resolutions 11 to other provisions.
As these further changes to the 14 will be proposed as special business.
articles of association will be reasonably substantial in number, it is anticipated that the Company will By order of the Board, adopt new articles of association at its Annual for and on behalf of F&C Management Limited, General Meeting in 2010.
Secretary Resolutions 13 and 14 will be put to the 5 March 2009 shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to 28 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
