Goldman Sachs Dynamic Opportunities Limited Glossary of Hedge Fund Strategies Event Driven Event driven strategies seek to identify security price changes resulting from corporate events such as restructurings, mergers, takeovers, spin-offs and other special situations.
Corporate events arbitrageurs generally choose their investments based on their perceptions of the likelihood that the event or transaction willoccur, the amount of time that the processwilltakeand the perceived ratio of return to risk.
Strategies that may be used in the event driven sector include risk arbitrage special situations and credit opportunities distressedsecurities, each ofwhich isdescribed ingreater detailbelow.
However, other strategiesmaybe employed as well.
Risk Arbitrage Special Situations Risk arbitrageurs seek to capture the price spread between current market prices and the value of securities upon successful completion ofatakeoveror merger transaction.
The  unwillingnessofother market participantsto take on transaction-based risk, i. e. the risk that the transaction will not be completed and the price of the company being acquired will fall.
Risk arbitrageurs evaluate this risk and seek to create portfolios that reduce specific event risk.
Special situations such as spin-offs and corporate reorganisations and restructurings offer additional opportunities for Advisors.
 impact and timing of the event and totakeon the associated event riskisthe source of the returns.
Advisors differ in the degree to which they hedge the equity market risk of their portfolios.
Credit Opportunities Distressed Securities Credit opportunities  debt orequitysecuritiesof firms inor near bankruptcy.
Advisorsdiffer , thestage , andthe degree to which they become actively involved in negotiating the terms of the restructuring.
Equity Long Short Equity long short strategies involve making long and short equity investments, generally based on fundamental evaluations, although it is expected that Advisors in this investment sector will employ a wide range of styles.
For example, such Advisors may i : ii : iii focusoncompanies with certain ranges of market capitalisation: or iv employ a more diversified approach, allocating assets to opportunities across investing styles, industry sectors, market capitalisations and geographic regions.
Tactical Trading Tactical trading strategies are directional trading strategies, which generally fall into one of two categories: managed futures strategies and global macro strategies.
Managed futures strategies involve trading in futures and currencies globally, generally using systematic or discretionary approaches.
Global macro strategies generally utilise analysis of macroeconomic and financial ,  securities, commodities, interest rates, currencies and other instruments.
Advisors use quantitative models or discretionary inputs to speculate on the direction of individual markets or subsectors of markets.
Advisors invest assets in a diversified portfolio composed primarilyof futures contracts, forward contracts, physical commodities, options on futures and on physical commodities, , financialinstruments, stockindices, , metals, grains and agricultural products, petroleum and petroleum products, livestock and meats, oil seeds, tropical products and softs suchassugar, cocoa, coffeeandcotton.
Advisorsalsoengage , including, butnotlimitedto, equityand debt securities, highyieldsecurities, emerging marketsecuritiesand other security interests, and may dosoon a cash basis or using options or other derivative instruments.
Certain Advisors may utilise other investment media, such as swaps and other similar instruments and transactions.
Advisors generally trade futures and securities on commodities and securities exchanges worldwide as well as in the interbank foreign currency forward market and various other over-the-counter markets.
41 Goldman Sachs Dynamic Opportunities Limited Glossary of Hedge Fund Strategies continued Relative Value Relative value strategies seek toprofit from the mispricing of financial instruments, capturing spreads between related securities that deviate from their fair value or historical norms.
Directional and market exposure is generally held toa minimum or completely hedged.
Hence, relative value strategies endeavour to have low correlation and beta to most market indices.
Credit Relative Value Credit relative value encompasses strategies that take long and short positions in corporate bonds or their derivatives to capture misvaluationsbetween  .
Strategiesmayalso involve a capital structure component to capture mispricing between equity and corporate debt.
Strategies are driven by both qualitative fundamental analysis and quantitative considerations.
Portfolios are constructed toensure that the directional exposure to credit spreads is minimal.
Convertible Arbitrage Convertible bond arbitrage strategies consist of buying convertible bonds and shorting an appropriate number of shares of the issuerscommonstock.
Due tothe bond features of convertibles, credit and interest rate risk may alsobe hedged.
 cash flows generated from the bonds coupon payment and the short sale interest rebate.
Equity Market Neutral Equity market neutral strategies try toavoid market direction influences and seek togenerate returns purely from stock selection.
Advisors construct long and short baskets of equity securities with similar characteristics but different current valuations, with the .
 or negligible beta to all or most markets.
In many instances, Advisors also attempt to protect portfolios from industry, market capitalisation and country exposure.
Fixed Income Relative Value Fixed income relative value strategies seek to exploit pricing anomalies that might exist across fixed income securities and their relatedderivatives.
,  where financial modelling is an integral component.
Mispricing in fixed income instruments tobaskets of securities is found when  value.
 fixed income supply and demand or by structural changes in the fixed income market.
Markets covered are predominantly G10, developed countries, although some specialists employ similar techniques in developing fixed income markets.
42 Goldman Sachs Dynamic Opportunities Limited This page intentionally left blank 43 Additional information Disclosures The value of investments and the income derived from investments can go down as well as up.
Future returns are not guaranteed, and a loss of principal may occur.
There may be conflicts of interest relating to GSDO and its service providers, including Goldman Sachs and its affiliates, who are engaged in businesses and have interests other than that of managing, distributing and otherwise providing services to GSDO.
These activities and interests include potential multiple advisory, transactional and financial and other interests in securities and instruments that may be purchased or sold by GSDO, or in other investment vehicles that may purchase or sell such securities and instruments.
These are considerations of which investors in GSDO should be aware.
Additional information relating to these conflicts is set forth in the offering materials for GSDO.
Goldman Sachs Hedge Fund Strategies LLC is a U. S. registered investment adviser, is part of Goldman Sachs Asset Management and is a wholly owned subsidiary of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
THIS MATERIAL DOES NOT CONSTITUTE AN OFFER OR SOLICITATION IN ANY JURISDICTION WHERE OR TO ANY PERSON TO WHOM IT WOULD BE UNAUTHORISED OR UNLAWFUL TO DO SO.
NO PERSON HAS BEEN AUTHORISED TO GIVE ANY INFORMATION OR TO MAKE ANY REPRESENTATION, WARRANTY, STATEMENT OR ASSURANCE NOT CONTAINED IN A PROSPECTUS ISSUED BY THE COMPANY AND, IF GIVEN OR MADE, SUCH OTHER INFORMATION OR REPRESENTATION, WARRANTY, STATEMENT OR ASSURANCE MAY NOT BE RELIED UPON.
Prospective investors should inform themselves as to any applicable legal requirements and taxation and exchange control regulations in the countries of their citizenship, residence or domicile which might be relevant.
Opinions expressed are current opinions as of the date appearing in this material only.
Supplemental Risk Disclosure for All Potential Investors in Hedge Funds and other private investment funds collectively, Alternative Investments In connection with your consideration of an investment in any Alternative Investment, you should be aware of the following risks: Alternative Investments are not subject to the same regulatory requirements or governmental oversight as mutual funds.
The sponsor or manager of any Alternative Investment may not be registered with any governmental agency.
Alternative Investments often engage in leverage and other investment practices that are extremely speculative and involve a high degree of risk.
Such practices may increase the volatility of performance and the risk of investment loss, including the loss of the entire amount that is invested.
Alternative Investments may impose significant fees, including incentive fees that are based upon a percentage of the realised and unrealised gains, and such fees may offset all or a significant portion of such Alternative Investments trading profits.
Alternative Investments may themselves invest in instruments that may be highly illiquid and extremely difficult to value.
Alternative Investments may not be required to provide their investors with periodic pricing or valuation information.
Such valuations may be based on manager estimates.
Alternative Investments are not required to provide their investors with periodic pricing or valuation information.
There may be conflicts of interest between the Alternative Investment and other service providers, including the investment manager and sponsor of the Alternative Investment.
Investors in Alternative Investments may have limited rights with respect to their investment interest, including limited voting rights and participation in the management of the Alternative Investment.
Alternative Investments may involve complex tax and legal structures.
Investment in any particular Alternative Investment, or Alternative Investments generally, is only suitable for sophisticated investors for whom such an investment does not constitute a complete investment program and who fully understand and are willing to assume the risks involved in such Alternative Investment.
You are urged to consult with your own tax, accounting and legal advisers regarding any investment in any Alternative Investment.
Investors are also urged to take appropriate advice regarding any applicable legal requirements and any applicable taxation and exchange control regulations in the country of their citizenship, residence or domicile which may be relevant to the subscription, purchase, holding, exchange, redemption or disposal of any Alternative Investment.
Investment Restrictions apply to many of Goldman Sachs Alternative Investments.
IRS Circular 230 Disclosure: Goldman Sachs does not provide legal, tax or accounting advice.
Any statement contained in this communication including any attachments concerning U. S. tax matters is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, for the purpose of avoiding penalties imposed on the relevant taxpayer.
Clients of Goldman Sachs should obtain their own independent tax advice based on their particular circumstances.
Goldman Sachs Dynamic Opportunities Limited is a Guernsey company listed on the London Stock Exchange and the rights and obligations of the participants in Goldman Sachs Dynamic Opportunities Limited are governed by its organisational documents, the laws of Guernsey and the listing rules of the London Stock Exchange.
References to market or composite indices, benchmarks or other measures of relative market performance over a specified period of time each, an index are provided for your information only.
Reference to this index does not imply that the portfolio will achieve returns, volatility or other results similar to the index.
The composition of the index may not reflect the manner in which a portfolio is constructed in relation to expected or achieved returns, portfolio guidelines, restrictions, sectors, correlations, concentrations, volatility or tracking error targets, all of which are subject to change over time.
Goldman Sachs Dynamic Opportunities Limited Underlying Manager Data The data of the underlying managers contained herein is based on information obtained from the given manager, unless otherwise indicated.
Goldman Sachs takes reasonable steps to verify but does not guarantee the accuracy of this information.
Historical data of managers is as reported by the given manager or by other sources and may not be calculated in a uniform or consistent basis with the information for other managers.
The data presented may be for an onshore, offshore or Master Fund vehicle of the particular manager.
Copyright c 2008, Goldman Sachs Dynamic Opportunities Limited.
Goldman Sachs Dynamic Opportunities Limited RBC Offshore Fund Managers Limited PO Box 246 Canada Court Upland Road St Peter Port Guernsey GY1 3QE
