Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Directors' Remuneration Report and the financial statements in records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the accordance with applicable law and regulations.
financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the for each financial year.
The directors are required by the IAS company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention Regulation to prepare the group financial statements under and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and have also elected to prepare the parent The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of company financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted the corporate and financial information included on the company's by the European Union.
The financial statements are also required website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial We confirm to the best of our knowledge: statements present fairly for each financial year the company's financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This 1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in out in the International Accounting Standards Board's 'Framework the consolidation taken as a whole: and for the preparation and presentation of financial statements'.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by 2. the management report, which is incorporated into the compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, directors are also directors' report includes a fair review of the development and required to: performance of the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, properly select and apply accounting policies: together with a description of the principle risks and uncertainties present information, including accounting policies, in a manner they face.
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and By order of the Board provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users Stephen Lansdown Martin Mulligan to understand the impact of particular transactions, other Chairman Group Finance Director events and conditions on the entity's financial position and 24 September 2008 24 September 2008 financial performance.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 37
