48 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements Accounting Policies On 16 January 2009, following completion of the acquisition of Financial Statements the Group by Lloyds Banking Group plc, the Group became The financial statements of HBOS plc comprise the a wholly owned subsidiary and became dependent upon the Consolidated Income Statement and the Consolidated and ultimate parent and its banking subsidiaries for its capital, Company Balance Sheets, Cash Flow Statements and liquidity and funding needs.
Statements of Recognised Income and Expense together There is a risk despite the substantial measures taken so with the related Notes to the Financial Statements.
The notes far by governments, that further deterioration in the markets include information contained in the Risk Management section could occur.
In addition the economic conditions in the UK of the Business Review on pages 13 to 33 that are crossare deteriorating more quickly than previously anticipated referenced into the financial statements.
These disclosures are placing further strain on the Lloyds Banking Groups capital required under IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements resources.
The key dependencies on successfully funding the relating to the management of capital and IFRS 7 Financial Lloyds Banking Groups balance sheet include the continued Instruments: Disclosures relating to the nature of risks and their functioning of the money and capital markets at their current management.
These disclosures form an integral part of the levels: the continued access of the Lloyds Banking Group to financial statements and are prefaced as such on the respective central bank and Government sponsored liquidity facilities pages.
including access to HM Treasurys credit guarantee scheme and Statement of Compliance access to the Bank of Englands various facilities: limited further The financial statements have been prepared in accordance deterioration in the Lloyds Banking Groups credit ratings: and with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and no signi cant or sudden withdrawal of deposits resulting in interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting increased reliance on money markets or Government support Interpretations Committee IFRIC as adopted by the European schemes.
The standards applied by the Group and Company are Based upon projections prepared by Lloyds Banking Group those endorsed by the European Union and effective at the date plc management which take into account the acquisition on the financial statements are approved by the Board.
However, 16 January 2009 of the Group Note 57 and together with the the Group has not utilised the carve-out provisions in respect Lloyds Banking Groups current ability to fund in the market and of full fair value and portfolio hedging of core deposits in IAS assumption that announced Government sponsored schemes 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement will continue to be available, the Directors are satis ed that the as adopted by the European Union and has implemented Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue the principles of IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements in business for the foreseeable future.
The Group has received although this has an immaterial effect on the financial con rmation that it is the current intention of Lloyds Banking statements.
Consequently, the financial statements comply with Group plc to ensure that the Groups subsidiaries should have International Financial Reporting Standards.
at all times for the foreseeable future access to adequate The financial statements also comply with the relevant resources to continue to trade and meet their liabilities as they provisions of Part VII of the Companies Act 1985, as amended fall due.
Accordingly, the financial statements of the Company by the Companies Act 1985 International Accounting and the Group have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Standards and Other Accounting Amendments Regulations b Basis of Measurement 2004.
Additionally, the Group has applied Financial Reporting The financial statements have been prepared under the Standard 27 Life Assurance issued by the UK Accounting historical cost basis, except that the following assets and Standards Board as appropriate.
liabilities which are stated at their fair values: derivatives, Basis of Preparation financial instruments held for trading, financial instruments a Principles Underlying Going Concern Assumption designated at fair value through the income statement, financial During 2008, global financial markets experienced dif cult instruments classi ed as available for sale and investment conditions which have been characterised by a marked properties.
In addition insurance contracts, investment contracts reduction in liquidity.
As a consequence of this, governments with discretionary participation features and value of in-force and central banks carried out a series of actions to address the long term assurance business included in the insurance and lack of liquidity within their respective banking systems.
In the investment business are prepared on the basis set out in the UK these actions have included the introduction by the Bank applicable accounting policy.
of England of liquidity support, through schemes collectively IFRS Applied in 2008 Bank of England facilities such as the extended LongTerm The following IFRS amendments have been applied in 2008: Repo open market operations and the Special Liquidity Scheme SLS whereby banks and building societies can exchange Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition eligible securities for UK treasury bills: and the creation of and Measurement and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: a credit guarantee scheme by HM Treasury, providing a Disclosures.
government guarantee for certain short and medium term In view of the ongoing market dislocation and the deterioration senior debt securities issued by eligible banks.
During 2008 the of the worlds financial markets, the Group transferred certain Group has made use of these measures in order to maintain asset backed securities ABS and oating rate notes FRNs and improve a stable funding position.
from the held for trading classi cation to the available for sale classi cation with effect from 1 July 2008 at their fair values In the context of this continued turbulence and uncertainty at that date.
Subsequently, in light of increasing illiquidity in in the financial markets, combined with a deteriorating the markets for ABS, the Group changed the classi cation of global economic outlook, the Group has also taken steps to ABS from available for sale to loans and receivables with strengthen its capital position in order to provide a buffer against effect from 1 November 2008.
There have been no other further shocks arising from the financial systems and to ensure reclassi cations in the year.
Thereafter the recognition and that it remains competitive.
On 15 January 2009, in conjunction measurement principles of IAS 39 are followed.
Disclosure of with the takeover of the Group by Lloyds TSB Group plc Note these reclassi cations is given in Note 45.
57, the Group raised 11,345m net after costs in preference and ordinary share capital Note 39.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 49 The following IFRIC interpretations have been applied in 2008: The Group derecognises a financial liability when its contractual obligations are discharged or cancelled or expired.
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions.
IFRIC 11 provides guidance on accounting in the separate Derivatives financial statements of subsidiaries for transactions where a Derivatives are measured at fair value and initially recognised on parent grants rights to its equity instruments directly to the the date the contract is entered into.
Where the fair value of a employees of subsidiaries and where the subsidiary grants to derivative is positive, it is carried as a derivative asset and where its employees rights to the equity instruments of the parent.
The negative, as a derivative liability.
The gain or loss from changes application of this interpretation has not affected the company in fair value is taken to net trading income, except for interest financial statements as costs are recharged to the subsidiaries from derivatives used for economic hedging purposes that do on the basis prescribed in the interpretation.
not qualify for hedge accounting treatment which is taken to net interest income, insurance and investment related derivatives IFRIC 14 The Limit on a fide ned Bene t Asset, Minimum which are taken to net investment income related to insurance Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
and investment business or when cash ow hedge accounting This interpretation has been applied in full within these financial is employed.
However, due to the financial rules of the Groups fide ned bene t schemes, its application has not impacted upon Hedge accounting allows one financial instrument, generally the Groups recognition or measurement of pension assets and a derivative such as a swap, to be designated as a hedge of liabilities under IAS 19 Employee Bene ts, nor is it expected to another financial instrument such as a loan or deposit or a at future reporting dates.
At inception of the hedge relationship formal documentation is drawn up specifying the hedging The accounting policies below have been consistently applied strategy, the component transactions and the methodology that to all periods presented in these financial statements.
Certain will be used to measure effectiveness.
comparative amounts have been reclassi ed to conform to the current years presentation.
Monitoring of hedge effectiveness is undertaken continually.
A hedge is regarded as effective if the change in fair value or Basis of Consolidation cash ows of the hedge instrument and the hedged item are The consolidated financial statements include the results of negatively correlated within a range of 80% to 125%, either for the Company and its subsidiary undertakings and, where the period since effectiveness was last tested or cumulatively appropriate, special purpose vehicles, together with the since inception.
Groups interests in associates and jointly controlled entities.
The Group uses three hedge accounting methods: The financial statements of entities controlled by the Group are consolidated in the Group financial statements commencing Firstly, fair value hedge accounting offsets the change in the fair on the date control is obtained until the date control ceases.
value of the hedging instrument against the change in the fair Control is fide ned as being where the Group has power, directly value of the hedged item in respect of the risk being hedged.
or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies The hedged item is adjusted for the fair value of the risk being of such entities so as to obtain bene ts from its activities.
hedged irrespective of its financial instrument classi cation.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently These changes in fair value are recognised in the income are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
When statement through net trading income.
Adjustments made to the assessing whether or not a special purpose entity SPE that has carrying amount of the hedged item for fair value hedges are been sponsored by the Group should be consolidated or not, amortised on an effective interest rate basis over the remaining the Group considers the indicators of control that are included expected life in line with the presentation of the underlying in the Standing Interpretations Committee SIC Interpretation 12 hedged item.
If the hedge is highly effective the net impact on Consolidation Special Purpose Entities and if these are met the income statement is minimised.
the SPE is included in the consolidation.
Secondly, cash ow hedge accounting matches the cash Open Ended Investment Companies OEICs where the Group, ows of hedged items against the corresponding cash ow of through the Groups life funds, has a controlling interest are the hedging derivative.
The effective part of any gain or loss consolidated.
The unit holders interest is reported in investment on a hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity in the contract liabilities.
cash ow hedge reserve and the hedged item is accounted for in accordance with the policy for that financial instrument.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are Any ineffective portion of the hedging instruments fair value is 49 eliminated on consolidation.
recognised immediately in the income statement through net trading income.
The amount deferred in reserves remains until Recognition and Derecognition of Financial Assets and the designated transaction occurs at which time it is released Liabilities and accounted for in the income statement in line with the The Group recognises loans and advances to customers and treatment of the hedged item.
Where the hedge relationship banks, deposits by banks, customer accounts, debt securities subsequently proves ineffective, or where the hedged item is in issue, other borrowed funds and other financial assets and settled early or is terminated, the associated gains and losses liabilities upon origination.
that were recognised directly in reserves are reclassi ed to the income statement through net trading income.
Where the The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual hedging instrument expires or is terminated before the forecast rights to the cash ows from the asset expire or it transfers the transaction occurs, the associated gains and losses recognised right to receive the contractual cash ows on the financial asset in reserves remain deferred until the forecast transaction occurs.
in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred.
Any interest in Thirdly, hedging of net investments in foreign operations is the transferred financial asset that is created or retained by the discussed within the foreign currencies accounting policy.
Group is recognised as a separate asset.
50 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued A derivative may be embedded in another financial Objective evidence may also arise from wider economic and instrument, known as the host contract.
Where the economic financial market indicators including factors that pertain to a characteristics and risks of an embedded derivative are not particular industry sector or local economy.
closely related to those of the host contract, the embedded The amount of any impairment is calculated by comparing the derivative is separated from the host and held separately on net present value of estimated future cash ows, discounted at the balance sheet at fair value, except for those instruments the loans original effective interest rate, with the carrying value that have been designated at fair value through the income of the loan.
If impaired, the carrying value is adjusted via the statement, where the derivative is not separated from the host provision and the additional provision is charged to the income instrument.
Changes in fair value are taken to the income statement.
statement through net trading income, and the host contract is accounted for in accordance with the policy for that class of The written down value of the impaired loan is compounded financial instrument.
back to the net realisable balance over time using the original effective interest rate.
This is reported through interest income If quoted or market values are not available then derivative in the income statement and represents the unwinding of fair values are determined using valuation techniques that the discount.
are consistent with techniques commonly used by market participants to price these instruments.
These techniques A write-off is made when it is not possible or economically include discounted cash ow analysis and other pricing viable to collect all or part of a claim.
Write-offs are offset against models.
The fair values calculated from these models are the release of a previously established impairment provision or regularly compared with prices obtained in actual market directly through the income statement.
In all material instances these techniques use only observable market data.
Loans with no identi ed evidence of individual impairment are subject to collective impairment assessment.
This is to quantify Loans and Advances impairment losses which exist at the balance sheet date, Loans and advances held for trading principally consist of but which have not yet been individually identi ed.
Collective reverse repurchase agreements, are carried at fair value and are assessment is carried out for groups of assets that share similar classi ed as financial assets held for trading.
Gains, losses and risk characteristics.
Collective impairment is assessed using a related income are taken to net trading income as they arise.
methodology based on existing risk conditions or events that have a strong correlation with a tendency to default.
All other loans and advances are classi ed as loans and receivables.
They are initially recognised at the draw Terms and conditions for past due or impaired loans and down date at the fair value on the commitment date plus advances may be renegotiated.
When the renegotiated contract directly attributable incremental transaction costs.
They are becomes effective, the loan is subsequently classi ed as past subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective due, impaired or neither past due nor impaired according to its interest method less provision for impairment.
performance under the renegotiated terms.
The fair value of loans and advances to customers is measured Loans and advances to customers include advances that at the commitment date and calculated by discounting are subject to non-returnable finance arrangements following anticipated cash ows, including interest, at a current securitisation of portfolios of mortgages and other advances.
The fair value of oating rate loans The principal bene ts of these advances are acquired by special and advances and overnight deposits is considered by the purpose securitisation entities that fund their purchase primarily Group to be equal to the carrying value as these loans and through the issue of debt securities in issue.
advances are accounted for at current interest rates and credit risk is assessed in the impairment review.
The fair value Syndications of xed interest bearing accounts is based on cash ows Syndication activity is undertaken as part of the Groups risk discounted using current money market interest rates for management strategy speci cally with the intention of debts with similar maturity and credit risk characteristics.
transferring credit risk and obtaining nancing as distinct from trading.
Loans and advances that are performing in accordance with the underlying contract are classi ed as neither past The Group considers that loan commitments and subsequent due nor impaired.
If a customer fails to make a payment draw down form one contract and the loan is therefore that is contractually due, or if the loan is in excess of recognised at the date of the draw down at the fair value as facility limit, the loan is classi ed as past due.
measured at the commitment date plus directly attributable and incremental transaction costs.
Loans pending syndication are If subsequently all contractually due payments are made classi ed as loans and receivables and derecognised upon sell or if the loan continues to operate within limit, the loan down when the risks and rewards are transferred to a third party.
reverts to its neither past due nor impaired status.
Finance Leases and Operating Leases The Group assesses whether objective evidence of impairment Assets leased to customers that transfer substantially all the exists individually for financial assets that are individually risks and rewards incidental to ownership to the customer are signi cant and individually or collectively for assets that are classi ed as finance leases.
They are recorded at an amount not signi cant.
The estimation involved in these impairment equal to the net investment in the lease, less any provisions for assessments is considered a critical accounting estimate.
impairment, within loans and advances to customers.
Objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired includes The difference between the gross receivable and the present signi cant dif culty of the customer, breach of contract such as value of the receivable is recognised as unearned finance interest or principal payments being missed, the loan being in income.
Lease income is recognised over the term of the lease excess of facility limit for a sustained period or the likelihood that using the pre-tax net investment method, which re ects a the borrower will enter bankruptcy.
constant periodic rate of return on the net investment.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 51 All other assets leased to customers that do not transfer An impairment loss on an available for sale debt instrument is substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classi ed reversed through the income statement, if there is evidence that as operating leases.
These assets, less any provision for the increase in fair value is due to an event that occurred after impairment, are separately disclosed in the balance sheet and the impairment loss was recognised.
are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation, which is The fair values of investment securities trading in active markets calculated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful are based on market prices or broker dealer valuations.
Operating lease rentals are recognised in operating quoted prices on instruments are not readily and regularly income on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Finance and available from a recognised broker, dealer or pricing service, operating lease assets are regularly reviewed for impairment.
or available prices do not represent regular transactions Leases entered into by the Group as lessee are primarily in the market, the fair values are estimated using quoted operating leases.
Operating lease rentals payable are market prices for securities with similar credit, maturity and recognised as an expense in the income statement on a yield characteristics or similar valuation models.
Investment straight-line basis over the term unless a more systematic basis securities, principally asset backed securities ABS, not traded is more appropriate.
in an active market are valued using valuation models that include non-market observable inputs.
These models use Investment Securities observed issuance prices in related asset classes, market Investment securities held for trading are classi ed as financial correlations, prepayment assumptions and external credit assets held for trading and are carried at fair value.
Additional assessments are then made on possible losses and related income are taken to net trading income as deterioration in credit risk for each individual security and on they arise.
Investment securities designated at fair value through additional liquidity considerations for particular asset classes.
the income statement are carried at fair value.
Gains, losses and related income are taken to other operating income as The Group uses trade date accounting when recording the they arise, except for those related to insurance and investment purchase and sale of investment securities.
business which are taken to net investment income related to Jointly Controlled Entities and Associates insurance and investment business.
Jointly controlled entities are entities over which the Group has Debt securities other than those held for trading or designated joint control under a contractual arrangement with other parties.
at fair value and for which there is no active market at inception Associates are entities over which the Group has signi cant are classi ed as loans and receivables.
They are initially in uence, but not control over the financial and operating recognised at fair value plus directly related incremental policies.
Signi cant in uence is the power to participate in the transaction costs and are subsequently carried on the balance financial and operating policy decisions of the entity but is not sheet at amortised cost using the effective interest method less control over those policies.
The venture capital exemption is taken for investments where All other investment securities are classi ed as available for signi cant or joint control is present and the investing area sale.
They are initially recognised at fair value plus directly operates as a venture capital business.
These investments related incremental transaction costs and are subsequently are designated at fair value through the income statement.
carried on the balance sheet at fair value.
Unrealised gains or Otherwise, the Groups share of results of associates and losses arise from changes in the fair values and are recognised jointly controlled entities, generally based on audited accounts, directly in equity in the available for sale reserve, except for are included in the consolidated financial statements using impairment losses or foreign exchange gains or losses related the equity method of accounting.
The share of any losses is to debt securities, which are recognised immediately in the restricted to a level that re ects an obligation to fund such income statement in impairment on investment securities or losses.
Income on debt securities is recognised on an effective interest rate basis and taken to Goodwill interest income through the income statement.
Income from The excess of the cost of a business combination over the equity shares is credited to other operating income, with income interest in the net fair value of the identi able assets, liabilities on listed equity shares being credited on the ex-dividend date and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition of a business and income on unlisted equity shares being credited on an is capitalised as goodwill.
The goodwill is allocated to the cashequivalent basis.
On sale or maturity, previously unrealised gains generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are and losses are recognised in other operating income.
expected to bene t from the acquisitions concerned.
51 Investment securities classi ed as available for sale are In most cases, the cash-generating units represent the business continually reviewed at the speci c investment level for acquired.
Impairment is recognised when there is objective evidence that a speci c financial asset is impaired.
Objective After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any evidence of impairment might include a signi cant or prolonged accumulated impairment losses.
Cash-generating units to which decline in market value below the original cost of a financial goodwill is allocated are subject to a semi-annual impairment asset and, in the case of debt securities, including those review at 31 March and 30 September and whenever there reclassi ed as loans and receivables, non-receipt of due is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
This compares interest or principal repayment, a breach of covenant within the the recoverable amount, being the higher of a cash-generating securitys terms and conditions or a measurable decrease in the units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use, with the estimated future cash ows since their initial recognition.
When this indicates that the carrying value of goodwill is not recoverable, it is irrevocably written down Impairment losses on available for sale equity instruments are through the income statement by the amount of any impaired not reversed through the income statement.
Any increase in loss identi ed.
Further details of the calculation are given in the the fair value of an available for sale equity instrument after an critical accounting estimates and in Note 23. impairment loss has been recognised is treated as a revaluation and recognised directly in equity.
52 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued IFRS 3 Business Combinations has not been applied Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying retrospectively to business combinations that occurred before 1 amount, only when it is probable that future economic bene ts January 2004. associated with the item will ow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
Software Costs associated with the development of software for internal Property and equipment is assessed for impairment where use, subject to fide minimis limits, are capitalised if the software there is an indication of impairment.
Where impairment exists, is technically feasible and the Group has both the intent and the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable suf cient resources to complete the development.
Costs are amount and the impairment loss recognised in the income only capitalised if the asset can be reliably measured and will statement.
The depreciation charge for the asset is then generate future economic bene ts to the Group either through adjusted to re ect the assets revised carrying amount.
Investment Properties Only costs that are directly attributable to bringing the asset into Investment properties comprise freehold and leasehold working condition for its intended use are capitalised.
These property that are held, either to earn rental income or for capital costs include all directly attributable costs necessary to create, appreciation or both.
They are initially recognised at cost produce and prepare the asset to be capable of operating and are fair valued annually.
Rental income from investment in a manner intended by management.
Other development properties is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an the lease and any gains or losses arising from a change in the expense as incurred.
fair value are recognised in the income statement in the period that they occur through other operating income, except for Capitalised development expenditure and purchased software those relating to insurance and investment business, which are is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment taken through net investment income related to insurance and losses.
Once the software is ready for use, the capitalised investment business.
costs are amortised over their expected lives, generally four years.
Capitalised software is assessed for impairment where Investments in Subsidiaries there is an indication of impairment.
Where impairment exists, Investments in subsidiaries are included in the Companys the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable balance sheet.
These comprise equity investments in, and amount and the impairment loss recognised in the income capital contributions to subsidiary entities.
The amortisation charge for the asset is then at cost less impairment provisions.
At each reporting date an adjusted to re ect the assets revised carrying amount.
assessment is undertaken to determine if there is any indication of impairment.
This assessment can include reviewing factors Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised when it increases such as the solvency, pro tability and cash ows generated the future economic bene ts embodied in the speci c asset to by the subsidiary.
If there is an indication of impairment, an which it relates.
estimate of the recoverable amount is made.
If the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount then a provision Purchased Value of In-Force Investment Contracts for impairment is made to reduce the carrying value to the The Groups contractual rights to bene ts from providing recoverable amount.
investment management services in relation to investment contracts acquired in business combinations and portfolio Disposal Group transfers are measured at fair value at the time of acquisition.
Assets and liabilities of a disposal group are classi ed as held The resulting asset is referred to as purchased value of in-force for sale where the carrying amount will be recovered principally investment contracts PVIF and is amortised over the estimated through a sale transaction as opposed to continuing use.
This lives of the contracts on a systematic basis.
At each reporting applies where the assets and liabilities are available for sale date an assessment is made to determine if there is any in their present condition, subject only to the terms that are indication of impairment.
Where impairment exists, the carrying usual and customary for the sale of such assets and liabilities, amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount and and when a sale is highly probable and expected to complete the impairment loss recognised in the income statement.
The within one year of being classi ed as a disposal group.
Disposal amortisation charge is then adjusted to re ect the revised groups are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair carrying amount.
Property, Plant and Equipment Deposits by Banks and Customer Accounts Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less Deposits by banks and customer accounts held for trading are accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
classi ed as financial liabilities held for trading and are carried at fair value.
Gains, losses and related income are taken to net Freehold land is not depreciated.
Freehold and leasehold trading income as they arise.
All other customer accounts and property, other than freehold investment properties, is stated at deposits by banks are held at amortised cost using the effective cost and depreciated over fty years or the length of the lease interest method.
Improvements to leasehold properties are stated at cost and are depreciated in equal instalments over the lesser The fair value of customer deposits with no stated maturity date of the remaining life of the lease or eight years.
Premiums are is the amount repayable on demand.
The estimated fair value amortised over the period of the lease.
of xed interest bearing deposits and other borrowings with no quoted market price is calculated using a cash ow model The cost of equipment, which includes xtures and ttings, discounted using interest rates for debts with similar maturities.
vehicles and computer hardware, less estimated residual value, is written off in equal instalments over the expected lives of the Repurchase Agreements assets, generally between three and eight years.
Securities sold subject to repurchase agreements are retained within the balance sheet where the Group retains substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 53 Funds received under these arrangements are included within In-force business is fide ned as all policies where the first deposits by banks, customer accounts or financial liabilities held premium has been paid.
For traditional with-pro t business, the for trading.
Conversely, securities acquired under commitments surplus attributable to the Group equates to one ninth of the to resell are not recognised in the balance sheet as debt cost of the bonuses declared in any year.
The level of assumed securities where substantially all the risks and rewards do not future bonuses is calculated by projecting the portfolio of withpass to the Group.
In this case, the purchase price is included pro t business forward and applying reversionary and terminal within loans and advances to banks, loans and advances to bonus rates so as to exhaust the projected surplus of assets customers, or financial assets held for trading.
The difference attributable to with-pro t policyholders.
between sale and repurchase prices for such transactions Insurance Contracts and Investment Contracts with DPF is re ected in the income statement over the lives of the Insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF liabilities transactions, within interest payable or interest receivable as written within the with-pro t fund, including both traditional appropriate.
and unitised with-pro t contracts, are calculated with reference General Insurance Business to the expected payout using realistic and, where applicable, The Group underwrites general insurance products.
For each market consistent assumptions in accordance with FRS 27 general insurance policy underwritten, premiums net of refunds Life Assurance.
Insurance contract liabilities within the nonare credited to net earned premiums on insurance contracts pro t funds are calculated in accordance with the Prudential over the period of risk coverage of the insurance policy.
Sourcebook for insurers INSPRU issued by the UK Financial Services Authority.
For insurance contracts, premiums are The cost of claims noti ed but not settled and claims incurred recognised as revenue when due from the policyholder and but not reported at the balance sheet date are estimated claims payable are recorded when noti ed or due.
For unitised and provided for.
Claims incurred comprise the settlement with-pro t contracts, where the policyholder has the choice to and handling costs of paid and outstanding claims arising invest in a unit-linked investment fund, deposits and withdrawals from events occurring during the financial year together with are accounted for directly on the balance sheet.
Similarly, for adjustments to prior year claims provisions.
Estimates are investment contracts with DPF, deposits and withdrawals are based upon an assessment of the likely costs taking account accounted for directly in the balance sheet.
Where the outcome of outstanding cases is unclear, statistical techniques are used which take into account At each reporting date an assessment is made of whether the cost of recent similar claim settlements.
liabilities are adequate using current estimates of future cash ows and taking into account the value of any related VIF asset.
Costs related to the acquisition of new insurance contracts Any fide ciency is immediately charged to the income statement including commissions paid to intermediaries and other related by establishing a provision on the balance sheet.
administration costs are capitalised as deferred acquisition costs DAC and amortised on the same basis that premiums Costs related to the acquisition of new long-term insurance and are recognised.
investment with DPF contracts are expensed as incurred.
Where the expected value of claims and expenses attributable Investment Contracts to unexpired risk periods exceed the value of unearned The Groups investment contracts, which include collective premiums less DAC, at the balance sheet date, additional investment schemes, are primarily unit-linked.
These contracts provisions are made for the anticipated losses.
are managed and evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with the terms of the contracts as bene ts are linked to the The accounting policies set out above in respect of the fair value of the assets supporting the contracts.
Accordingly, measurement of the insurance contract liabilities include the investment contract liabilities have been designated at fair liability adequacy testing that meets the requirements of IFRS 4 value through the income statement with fair value changes Insurance Contracts.
recognised through change in investment contract liabilities.
The fair value of the liabilities is estimated using a valuation Insurance and Investment Product Classi cation technique.
In accordance with this technique the liability is The Group has classi ed its long term insurance and investment established as the bid value of the assets held to match the business in accordance with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts as liability, less an allowance in relation to deductions made to the follows: liability for capital gains tax on the gains relating to the matching assets.
Deposits and withdrawals are accounted for directly Insurance contracts are contracts containing signi cant in the balance sheet as adjustments to the liability with other insurance risk.
Such contracts remain insurance contracts changes recognised in the income statement.
53 until all rights and obligations are extinguished or expired: Revenue in relation to investment management services is Investment contracts with a discretionary participation feature recognised as the services are provided.
Incremental costs DPF are contracts that do not contain signi cant insurance directly attributable to securing the Groups contractual right risk but that contain discretionary participation features, which to bene t from providing investment management services in for the Group are its with-pro t contracts: and relation to investment contracts, other than through a business combination or portfolio transfer refer to the accounting policy Investment contracts are contracts that have neither for intangible assets, are recognised as an asset if it is probable signi cant insurance risk nor a DPF.
that they will be recovered.
General insurance business only issues insurance contracts.
Incremental costs include commissions paid to intermediaries and other similar costs.
This asset, referred to as deferred Value of In-force Long Term Assurance Business VIF origination costs, is amortised as the related investment The Group places a value on the long term insurance contracts management revenue is recognised, and its recoverability and investment contracts with DPF, which represents the assessed at each balance sheet date on a portfolio basis.
present value of future cash ows attributable to the Group with respect to these contracts.
The change in VIF is accounted for as revenue.
54 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Unallocated Surplus The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected The unallocated surplus is accounted for as a liability as manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of permitted by IFRS 4.
The carrying value of the unallocated assets and liabilities, based on tax rates that are enacted or surplus is determined as the residual assets of the with-pro t substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
fund after providing for the with-pro t liabilities in accordance Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable with the policies described above.
that future taxable pro t will be available against which the Reinsurance temporary differences can be utilised.
Contracts entered into with reinsurers under which the Group The tax effects of losses available for carry forward are is compensated for losses on insurance contracts issued by recognised as an asset when it is probable that future taxable the Group, and that meet the classi cation requirements for pro ts will be available against which these losses can be insurance contracts, are classi ed as reinsurance contracts utilised.
The bene ts to which the Group is entitled under these contracts are recognised as reinsurance assets.
These assets Deferred and current tax assets and liabilities are offset consist of short term balances due from reinsurers as well as when they arise in the same tax reporting group and where longer term receivables that are dependent on the expected there is both a legal right of offset and the intention to settle claims and bene ts arising under the related insurance on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability contracts.
Amounts recoverable from or due to reinsurers are simultaneously.
measured consistently with the amounts associated with the reinsured insurance contracts, in accordance with the terms Provisions of each reinsurance contract, and are regularly reviewed for The Group recognises a provision if there is a present obligation impairment.
as a consequence of either a legal or a constructive obligation resulting from a past event.
To recognise this it should be Post Retirement Schemes probable that an out ow of economic resources, that can The Groups net obligation in respect of fide ned bene t pension be reliably measured, will be required to settle the obligation.
plans is calculated separately for each plan.
The net obligation Provisions are measured as the discounted expected future represents the present value of the future bene ts owed to cash ows taking account of the risks and uncertainties employees in return for their service in the current and prior associated with the speci c liability where appropriate.
periods, after the deduction of the fair value of any plan assets.
A constructive obligation is only deemed to exist in respect The discount rate used is the market yield on high quality of restructuring once a detailed restructuring plan has been corporate bonds at the balance sheet date that have maturity formally approved and the plan has been announced publicly or dates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligation.
work on the restructure has commenced.
The calculation is performed by a quali ed actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses Provision is made for undrawn loan commitments which have arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial become onerous.
assumptions are recognised immediately through the statement of recognised income and expense.
As explained under critical accounting judgements, if the Group assesses that a constructive obligation for a regulatory The charge to the income statement for fide ned bene t provision exists then a provision is established.
Where the schemes includes current service cost, past service cost, the provisioning criteria are met, the Group makes provision for the interest cost of the scheme liabilities and the expected return on estimated cost of making redress payments to customers in scheme assets.
respect of past product sales where the sales processes have been fide cient.
To calculate the provision the Group estimates The cost of contributions to fide ned contribution pension the number of cases requiring redress and the average cost schemes are recognised as an expense in the income per case.
These are dependent upon, inter alia, the volume statement as incurred.
of claims, the actions of regulators and, as appropriate, the performance of investments.
As progress is made in settling Taxation claims, if necessary, the Group revises its judgements and Income tax on the pro t or loss for the year comprises current estimates based on the emerging trends.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised Debt Securities in Issue directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Debt securities in issue held for trading are classi ed as financial liabilities held for trading and are carried at fair value.
Gains, The tax charge is analysed between tax that is payable in losses and related expense are taken to net trading income respect of policyholder returns and tax that is payable on as they arise.
Debt securities in issue designated at fair value shareholders equity returns.
This allocation is based on an through the income statement are carried at fair value.
Gains, assessment of the effective rate of tax that is applicable to losses and related expense are taken to other operating shareholders equity for the year.
income as they arise, except for those related to insurance Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance sheet liability and investment business which are taken to net investment method, providing for temporary differences between the income related to insurance and investment business.
All other carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting debt securities in issue are held at amortised cost.
They are purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The initially recognised at fair value plus directly related incremental following differences are not provided: goodwill not deductible transaction costs and are subsequently carried on the balance for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets and liabilities sheet at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
that affects neither accounting nor taxable pro t, and overseas Fair values are calculated based on quoted market prices.
earnings where both remittance is controlled by the Group Where quoted market prices are not available, a cash ow and it is probable that the difference will not reverse in the model is used, discounted using an appropriate current yield foreseeable future.
curve for the remaining term to maturity.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 55 Other Borrowed Funds goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition Other borrowed funds comprises preference shares that of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of are classi ed as debt, preferred securities and subordinated the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate: and liabilities, all of which are held at amortised cost, using the income and expenses are translated at the average effective interest method.
exchange rates for the period unless this is not a reasonable Preference shares are classi ed as debt where they are approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing redeemable on a speci c date, or at the option of the on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses shareholders, or if dividend payments are not discretionary.
are translated at the dates of the transactions.
Dividends on preference shares classi ed as debt are All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate recognised in the income statement through interest expense.
component of other reserves within equity.
Preferred securities are issued at or close to market values.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the These are classi ed as debt where they are redeemable on translation of the net investment in foreign operations, and of a speci c date, or at the option of the holders, or if interest borrowings and other currency instruments designated as payments are not discretionary.
The interest payable on such hedges of such investments, are taken to equity where the securities is recognised in the income statement through hedge is deemed to be effective.
When a foreign operation is interest expense.
sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the income Subordinated liabilities consist of dated and undated loan statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
The interest payable is recognised in the income portion of any net investment hedge is recognised in the income statement through interest expense.
Share Capital Cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are deemed to be zero at 1 January 2004.
Any gain or loss are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
on the subsequent disposal of a foreign operation will exclude translation differences that arose before 1 January 2004, but Netting include later translation differences.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable Cash and Cash Equivalents right of offset and there is an intention and ability to settle on a Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and balances at net or simultaneous basis.
central banks that are freely available, and loans and advances to banks with an original maturity of three months or less Where master netting agreements allow for offset only on excluding financial assets that are held for trading purposes.
default by one of the parties, the Group presents the disclosures on a gross basis.
Share-based Payments The Group predominantly operates equity-settled shareForeign Currencies based compensation schemes in exchange for employee The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling services received.
The fair values of options or shares granted which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
are determined at the date of grant and expensed over the vesting period.
The fair values of the options or shares granted Foreign currency transactions are translated into sterling at the are measured using various models, taking into account the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
terms and conditions upon which the options and shares were granted.
Market conditions are taken into account to set the Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign fair value at grant and are not updated.
Non-market vesting currencies are translated at balance sheet date exchange rates.
conditions, including non-market performance conditions, Exchange differences arising, including those from changes in are not re ected in the grant date fair value but are re ected the amortised cost of foreign currency monetary available for within estimates of the number of options or shares expected sale assets, are recognised in the income statement except for to vest.
Any adjustments required as a result of updating these differences arising from hedges of net investments in foreign estimates are taken to the income statement over the remaining operations and derivatives related to cash ow hedges which vesting period.
Modi cations are assessed at the date of are recognised directly in equity.
modi cation and any incremental charges required are charged to the income statement over any remaining vesting period.
For 55 Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at historical cost are share based compensation schemes settled by the Company translated using the historical exchange rate.
a recharge equal to the cost during the period is made to subsidiary companies.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value are translated at exchange rates on the date the fair value is Effective Interest Rate determined.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in Revenue on financial instruments classi ed as loans and the income statement except those relating to available for sale receivables, available for sale and expense on financial liabilities financial assets equity investments, which are recognised at amortised cost, are recognised on an effective interest rate directly in reserves.
This calculation takes into account interest received or paid and fees and commissions paid or received that are The results and financial position of all Group entities that have integral to the yield as well as incremental transaction costs and a functional currency different from sterling are translated into all other premiums and discounts.
The effective interest rate is sterling as follows: the rate that discounts the expected future cash ows over the expected life of the financial instrument or, where appropriate, assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are a shorter period, to the net carrying amount of the financial translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet: instrument at initial recognition.
56 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued These calculations are undertaken on a portfolio basis other a Critical Accounting Judgements than in respect of signi cant balances, relating principally to The preparation of the financial statements necessarily requires larger corporate customers, which are assessed individually.
the exercise of judgement in the application of accounting In applying the portfolio basis, the Group makes use of various policies which are set out above.
These judgements are statistical modelling techniques which are speci c to different continually reviewed and evaluated based on historical portfolios to estimate redemption pro les and derive the experience and other factors.
The principal critical accounting expected cash ows.
A number of relevant considerations are judgements made by the Group that have a material financial taken into account to estimate the cash ows of individually impact on the financial statements are as follows: signi cant corporate balances, including previous experience Designation of Financial Instruments of customer behaviour, credit scoring of the customer and The Group has classi ed its financial instruments in accordance anticipated future market conditions at the date of acquisition.
with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and The impact of the assumption related to the expected life of the Measurement.
In some instances the classi cation is prescribed instruments is considered under critical accounting estimates.
whilst in others the Group is able to exercise judgement in Fees and Commission determining the classi cation as follows: Fees and commission income and expense is recognised in Non-derivative financial assets, other than those held for the income statement as the related service is provided except trading, where there is no active market and which have those that are integral to the effective interest rate calculations xed or determinable payments are classi ed as loans and or to investment contract deferred origination costs.
receivables: Fees and commission recognised in the income statement The Groups trading portfolio is classi ed as held for include service fees, agency and management fees, transaction trading.
The Group exercises judgement in determining fees, guarantee fees, letter of credit fees, asset management which financial instruments form part of its trading book.
This fees and non-utilisation fees.
is determined at acquisition by the purpose for which the Syndication and underwriting fees are spread over the expected instrument is acquired: term of the sell down.
In the event of the loan not being sold The Group exercised judgement when determining that down then no fees are recognised.
the ongoing market dislocation and deterioration of the Fees and commission included in the effective interest worlds financial markets that occurred during the third calculation are those that are incremental and directly quarter of 2008 was a suf ciently rare circumstance to attributable to the origination of the product and which are warrant a reclassi cation of certain financial assets from integral to the yield of the product.
These include arrangement held for trading to available for sale for which the Group fees, incentives such as cash backs, intermediary fees and has the intention and ability to hold these assets for the commissions, high loan to value fees and procurement fees.
The Group also subsequently reclassi ed certain financial assets from available for sale to loans and Guarantees receivables.
In both cases, the Group had the intention and Financial guarantees are contracts that require the Group to ability to hold the financial assets for the foreseeable future make speci ed payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it and the financial assets transferred met the classi cation incurs because a speci ed debtor fails to make payment when criteria of loans and receivables: due in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument.
Derivative instruments are automatically classi ed as at fair Financial guarantees are initially recognised at fair value value through the income statement unless they form part on the date the guarantee was given.
Subsequent to initial of an effective hedging relationship.
The Groups accounting recognition, the Groups liabilities under such guarantees are policy for hedge accounting is described under the policy for measured at the higher of the amount determined under the derivatives: Groups accounting policy on provisions and the amount initially recognised less cumulative amortisation recognised to record Instruments that are deemed by the Group on initial any fee income earned in the period.
recognition to eliminate a measurement mismatch or where they contain an embedded derivative which is not separated Intra-group financial guarantee contracts in the Company from the host contract are designated on initial recognition financial statements are accounted for as general insurance as at fair value through the income statement.
This practice also applies to any new intra-group portfolios of assets, liabilities or both that are managed and financial guarantees written.
the performance evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk or investment management strategy Critical Accounting Judgements and Estimates are designated on initial recognition at fair value through the The preparation of financial statements requires management income statement: to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
In addition the venture capital exemption is taken for Due to the inherent uncertainty in making estimates, actual investments where signi cant in uence or joint control results reported in future periods may be based on amounts is present and the investing area operates as a venture which differ from those estimates.
These investments are designated at fair and assumptions are continually evaluated and are based on value through the income statement.
This policy is applied historical experience and other factors, including expectations consistently across the Groups portfolios.
Judgement is of future events that are believed to be reasonable under applied when determining whether or not a business area the circumstances.
Revisions to accounting estimates are operates as a venture capital business.
The judgement is recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in based on consideration of whether, in particular, the primary any future periods affected.
business activity is investing for current income, capital appreciation or both: whether the investment activities are Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 57 clearly and objectively distinct from any other activities of Syndications the Group: and whether the investee operates as a separate As explained in the accounting policy on syndications, the business autonomous from the Group: Group has elected to treat loans and advances pending syndication as loans and receivables rather than account Assets in support of the general insurance and long term for them as trading assets.
Accordingly these are initially assurance businesses are designated by the Group as at fair recognised at the draw down date at the fair value as at value through the income statement: the commitment date plus directly attributable incremental transaction costs.
Investment contracts within the long term assurance business are designated by the Group as at fair value through the Investment in Subsidiaries income statement: As explained in the accounting policies, investments in subsidiaries are included in the Companys balance sheet.
The Group has chosen not to designate any financial assets These comprise equity investments in and capital contributions as held to maturity: to subsidiary entities made by the Company.
These are carried at cost less impairment provisions.
At each reporting date, an All other financial assets are classi ed as available for sale: assessment is undertaken to determine if there is an indication and of impairment.
This assessment can include reviewing factors such as the solvency, pro tability and cash ows of the All other financial liabilities are classi ed as at amortised cost.
The accounting treatment of these financial instruments is set If impairment indicators are evident, an estimate of recoverable out in the relevant accounting policy.
amount is made which requires the exercise of management judgement.
Active Markets Asset backed securities not traded in an active market are More details of the methodology used to calculate recoverable valued using models.
An active market is one where prices are amount are given in critical accounting estimates below.
readily and regularly available from an exchange, broker, pricing service, industry group or regulator and these prices represent Deferred Tax actual and regularly occurring transactions on an arms length Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management basis.
Where there are no regular transactions occurring judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised.
signi cant liquid markets the market is not described as active.
In particular, when assessing the extent to which deferred A signi cant increase in the spread between the amount sellers tax assets should be recognised with consideration given are asking and buyers are bidding or the presence of a to the timing, nature and level of future taxable income.
The relatively small number of bidding parties, are indicators that a recognition of deferred tax assets relating to tax losses carried market may be inactive.
The determination of whether a market forward relies on pro t projections and taxable pro t forecasts is inactive requires judgement.
prepared by management, where a number of assumptions are required based on the levels of growth in pro ts and the reversal More details of the models used to value the securities not of deferred tax balances.
traded in an active market are given in the fair values section in critical accounting estimates below.
b Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of the financial statements requires the Impairment of Investment Securities Group to make estimations where uncertainty exists.
As explained in the accounting policy, investment securities The principal critical accounting estimates made by are reviewed at the speci c investment level for impairment.
the Group are considered below.
Disclosures about Impairment is recognised when there is objective evidence estimates and the related assumptions are also included that a speci c financial asset is impaired.
Objective evidence in the appropriate Note to the Financial Statements.
of impairment might include a signi cant or prolonged decline in market value below the original cost of a financial asset and, Fair Values in the case of debt securities, including those reclassi ed as The designation of financial instruments for measurement loans and receivables, non-receipt of due interest or principal purposes is set out under the critical accounting judgements repayment, a breach of covenant within the securitys terms and above and the valuation methodologies for financial instruments conditions or a measurable decrease in the estimated future remain as disclosed in this accounting policy section.
cash ows since their initial recognition.
57 Derivatives and other financial instruments classi ed as at fair The disappearance of active markets, declines in market value through the income statement or available for sale are value and ratings downgrades do not in themselves constitute recognised at fair value.
objective evidence of impairment and, unless a default has occurred on a debt security, the determination of whether or not Debt securities measured at fair value and not traded in an objective evidence of impairment is present at the balance sheet active market, principally comprising asset back securities date requires the exercise of management judgement.
ABS in the Treasury division, are valued using valuation models that include non-market observable inputs.
These models Unarranged Overdraft Charges use observed issuance prices in related asset classes, market The Groups accounting policy in respect of regulatory correlations, prepayment assumptions and external credit provisions is given in the section on provisions.
For each asset class within the ABS portfolio, the of a legal obligation, judgement is necessary in determining implied spread arrived at by using this methodology is applied the existence of a constructive obligation.
In respect of the to the securities within that asset class.
Additional assessments claims made for refunds of unarranged overdraft charges, are then made on possible deterioration in credit risk for each the judgement of the Group is that there is no constructive individual security and on additional liquidity considerations for obligation pending the outcome of the legal case.
58 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Of the total debt securities carried at fair value on the balance Effective Interest Rate sheet, the fair values of those calculated using models with As described in the accounting policy for effective interest inputs that are not observable in the market is 3,054m 2007 rate, the Group uses statistical and mathematical models 17,790m.
to calculate the effective yield for loans and advances.
The Group applies judgement when determining the expected For debt securities valuations using non-market observable life of these loans.
The underlying products usually allow the inputs, the effect of a one hundred basis point move in credit customer to make early repayment before the contractual spreads which based upon experience is only key sensitivity maturity date.
In estimating the expected life of the loan, the would result in a pre-tax movement of 163m 2007 185m for Group takes into account a number of relevant considerations assets classi ed at fair value through the income statement and when the asset is initially recognised to estimate the cash a post-tax movement of nil 2007 351 m, recognised in equity ows from early redemptions including the type of product, reserves, on assets classi ed as available for sale.
previous experience of customer behaviour, credit scoring of the customer and anticipated future market conditions.
The cash On ABS that were valued using models with non-observable ows are adjusted in the light of actual experience, however the market inputs, a 1,056m 2007 78m pre-tax negative fair value effective interest rate is not reassessed.
As a consequence of adjustment was recognised in the income statement within net the reduced levels of principal repaid in 2008 and the resulting trading income and a post-tax negative fair value adjustment of adjustments to estimated future cash ows a 200m credit 3,572m 2007 158m on ABS classi ed as available for sale 2007 nil has been taken to the income statement.
If the was recognised in equity reserves.
estimated life of the Retail portfolio were to increase or decrease by one month then the carrying value of the Retail portfolio Retirement Bene t Obligations would increase or decrease by 6m 2007 18m respectively.
The expected cash ows used in the calculation of the fide ned bene t schemes liabilities include a number of assumptions Impairment Losses on Loans and Advances around mortality, in ation rates applicable to fide ned bene ts The Group regularly reviews its loan portfolios carried at and the average expected service lives of the employees.
The amortised cost to assess for impairment.
This review is selection of these assumptions and the selection of the discount conducted across all asset types and impairment provisions are rate have a material impact on the estimation of the pension established to recognise incurred impairment losses within the liabilities.
The discount rate used by the Group to calculate loan portfolios.
As explained in the Groups accounting policy the fide ned bene t scheme liabilities is based upon a blended on Loans and Advances, impairment loss calculations involve market yield at the balance sheet date of high quality bonds with the estimation of future cash ows of loans and advances based a similar duration to that of the schemes liabilities and is derived on observable data at the balance sheet date, historical loss on a basis consistent with prior years.
The sensitivity of the experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics scheme liabilities to changes in the principal assumptions used and other factors including, inter alia, future prospects of the are set out in Note 33. customers, value of collateral held and reliability of information.
These calculations may be undertaken on either a portfolio basis Long Term Assurance Business or individually for individually signi cant exposures.
In applying The estimation of the Groups insurance and investment the portfolio basis the Group makes use of various statistical contracts with discretionary participating features DPF liabilities modelling techniques which are speci c to different portfolio and related value of in-force VIF assets relies on a number of types.
assumptions in forecasting future experience.
The selection of appropriate assumptions requires the application of material The actual amount of the future cash ows and their timing may judgement and is made with reference to historic trends, taking differ signi cantly from the assumptions made for the purposes into account the analysis of actual versus expected experience of determining the impairment provisions given the range of as well as industry data.
asset types, number of customers and current economic conditions.
This uncertainty is exacerbated in the current The accounting policy for insurance contracts and investment economic climate, where the timing of and value realisable from contracts with DPF and the description of long term assurance the collateral held in the form of property is particularly uncertain.
business in Note 30 describe the assumptions that are made Consequently these allowances can be subject to variation.
when calculating the value of these contracts, which also impact on the value of the VIF and the unallocated surplus.
The Goodwill Group applies signi cant judgement when selecting the rates of Goodwill arises on the acquisition of a business.
As explained in persistency to be used in these calculations.
The considerations the accounting policy for goodwill it is subject to a six monthly given to lapse and surrender rate assumptions are detailed in impairment review.
This compares the recoverable amount, Note 30.
The sensitivity of the Groups results to changes in being the higher of a cash-generating units fair value less costs certain key variables on long term insurance and investment to sell and its value in use, with the carrying value.
When this contracts and investment contracts with DPF are disclosed in indicates that the carrying value is not recoverable it is written Note 28. down through the income statement as goodwill impairment.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 59 The recoverable amount of goodwill carried at 31 December 2008 has been based upon value in use.
This calculation uses cash ow projections based upon the five year business plan where the main assumptions used for planning purposes relate to the current economic outlook and opinions in respect of economic growth, unemployment, property markets, interest rates and credit quality.
Cash ows thereafter are extrapolated using a growth rate of 2.2% p. a, re ecting managements view of the expected future long term trend in growth rate of the respective economies concerned, predominantly being in the UK, and the long term performance of the businesses concerned.
The pre-tax discount rate used in discounting the projected cash ows has, in view of current credit conditions, been increased to within a range of 14.4% - 15.3% p. a 2007: 10.0% - 12.2% p. a re ecting, inter alia, the perceived risks within those businesses.
As at 31 December 2008 the carrying value of goodwill held on the balance sheet is 1,556m 2007 1,940m as shown in Note 23.
Goodwill has been impaired by 158m during the year.
The unprecedented levels of market turmoil and current economic conditions have adversely impacted the short-term pro tability of the cash generating units.
The Group has considered the impact upon the assumptions used and has conducted sensitivity analysis on the impairment tests.
For example, an increase in the discount rate to 17% would result in an additional impairment to goodwill of 31m: alternatively if projected cash ows reduced by 20% an additional impairment of 118m would arise.
Investment in Subsidiaries As explained in the accounting policies, investments in subsidiaries are included in the Companys balance sheet.
These comprise equity investments in and capital contributions to subsidiary entities made by the Company and are carried at cost less impairment provisions.
If impairment indicators are present, a comparison of the recoverable amount, being the higher of a subsidiary entitys value in use and fair value less costs to sell, is made with the carrying value.
When this indicates that the carrying value is not recoverable it is written down by the impairment loss identi ed.
At 31 December 2008, the carrying value of the Companys investment in its principal subsidiary undertaking, Bank of Scotland plc, was 16,111m before write down.
The recoverable amount of this business is calculated based on value in use.
This calculation uses five year projections which are extrapolated thereafter at a rate of 3.0% p. a with a discount rate of 14.6% p. a applied throughout.
As IAS 36 requires that, inter alia, estimates of future cash ows cannot include estimated future cash ows or related cost savings or bene ts that are expected from future restructuring 59 to which an entity is, under IAS 37, not yet committed, these projections exclude the effects of future synergies planned to arise from the Groups acquisition by Lloyds TSB Group plc.
This methodology results in a recoverable amount of 11,919m.
Accordingly, a write-down of 4,192m was booked in the Companys Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2008.
60 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued IFRS and IFRIC Not Yet Applied IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes which is effective for The following standards and interpretations have been adopted periods commencing on or after 1 July 2008.
The application of by the European Union but are not effective for the year ended this interpretation in 2008 would not have had a material impact 31 December 2008 and have not been applied in preparing the on the financial statements.
financial statements: The following interpretation has not yet been adopted by the IFRS 8 Operating Segments which is effective for periods European Union but is effective for the year ended 31 December commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
The Group has implemented the principles of this IAS 14 Segmental Reporting and aligns the disclosure of interpretation in preparing the financial statements: operating segments in the financial statements with the internal IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements which is effective reporting of segments to senior management.
Following the for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2008.
The acquisition of the Group by Lloyds TSB plc the Group will adopt application of this interpretation would not have affected the the segmental structure and measurement basis for segments of financial statements as the Group accounting policy accords the Lloyds Banking Group.
These are currently being determined with the requirements.
The following standards and interpretations have not yet been Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: A adopted by the European Union, are not effective for the Revised Presentation which is effective for periods commencing year ended 31 December 2008 and have not been applied on or after 1 January 2009.
The revised standard will affect the in preparing the financial statements.
Where appropriate presentation of owner changes in equity and of comprehensive disclosures will be revised in the financial statements in the year income.
Adoption will not change the recognition, measurement in which the standard or interpretation becomes applicable.
or disclosure of speci c transactions or events as required by other standards.
IFRS 1 First-time adoption of IFRS which is effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
As the Group and Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs which is applicable Company reports under IFRS, the application of this amendment to borrowing costs related to qualifying assets for which the in 2008 would not have any effect upon the financial statements.
commencement date for capitalisation is on or after 1 January 2009.
The application of this revised standard in 2008 would not Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial have had a material impact on the financial statements.
Statements which is effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
This amendment removes the fide nition of Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: Vesting the cost method which requires dividends from pre-acquisition Conditions and Cancellations which is effective for periods pro ts to be set off against the cost of an investment in a commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
Application in 2008 would not have had an effect vesting conditions and clari es the accounting.
The application upon the financial statements.
of this amendment would not have an impact upon the financial statements as the Group accounting policy accords with the IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate which treatment prescribed by the amendment.
is effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
The application of this interpretation would not have affected the Amendments to IAS 32 and IAS 1 Puttable Financial financial statements as the Group accounting policy accords Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation which is with the requirements.
effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
This amendment addresses the balance sheet classi cation of IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation puttable financial instruments and obligations arising only on which is effective for periods commencing on or after 1 October liquidation.
Where these instruments represent a residual interest 2008.
The application of this interpretation in 2008 would not in the net assets of an entity and meet certain other conditions have affected the financial statements as the Group accounting they should be classi ed as equity rather than liabilities.
The policy accords with the requirements.
Group has no items currently classi ed as liabilities that would need to be presented as equity as a result of this amendment because these instruments fail to meet the criteria for such a reclassi cation.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 61 IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non Cash Assets to Owners which is effective for periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009. the application of this interpretation would not have affected the financial statements as the Group accounting policy accords with the requirements.
IFRIC 18 Transfer of assets from customers which applies to transfers of assets from customers received on or after 1 July 2009.
The application of this interpretation in 2008 would not have had a material impact on the financial statements.
Improvements to IFRS 2008 The majority of these improvements are effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009 and their application would not have had a material effect upon the financial statements.
Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items which is effective for periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009.
This amendment clari es what can be designated as a hedged item in a hedge accounting relationship and application in 2008 would not have had a material impact upon the financial statements.
Amendments to IAS 39 Reclassi cation of Financial Assets: Effective Date and Transition which is effective on or after 1 July 2008.
This amendment clari es the effective date and transition requirements for the change to the standard issued in October 2008 permitting entities to reclassify non derivative financial assets out of the fair value through the income statement category in particular circumstances.
The application of this amendment would not have affected the financial statements as the Group accounting policy accords with the requirements.
Revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations and amended IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements These changes are effective for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 with the main effects being that the cost of investment will comprise the consideration paid to the vendors for equity with acquisition costs being expensed immediately: goodwill will be accounted for only upon the acquisition of a subsidiary as subsequent changes in interest will be recognised in equity and only upon the loss of control will any pro t or loss be recognised in income.
Further, any pre-existing stake held will, where control is subsequently gained, be revalued with any pro t or loss arising being booked to income.
These changes will affect the manner in which acquisitions and disposals made by the Group are accounted for after the implementation of the revised Business Combinations standard and related revisions to IAS 27.
61 62 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Net Interest Income 2008 2007 m m Interest receivable: Loans and advances to customers 29,892 26,354 Loans and advances to banks 740 2,295 Investment securities 652 115 Lease and hire purchase receivables 299 321 Interest receivable on loans and receivables 31,583 29,085 Available for sale financial assets 2,108 2,278 Interest receivable on derivatives 3,515 3,374 Other 205 275 Total interest receivable 37,411 35,012 Interest payable: Deposits by banks 3,959 2,568 Customer accounts 9,538 9,837 Debt securities in issue 10,191 10,482 Other borrowed funds 1,450 1,169 Interest payable on liabilities held at amortised cost 25,138 24,056 Interest payable on derivatives 3,473 3,399 Other 629 253 Total interest payable 29,240 27,708 Net interest income 8,171 7,304 2 Net Trading Expense Income 2008 2007 m m Equity and commodity instruments and related non hedging derivatives 952 92 Interest bearing securities and related non hedging derivatives 4,174 58 Foreign exchange and related non hedging derivatives 16 72 Net gains and losses from trading financial instruments and non hedging derivatives 3,238 222 Gains losses on fair value hedges: On hedging instruments 3,467 1,184 On the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk 3,110 1,227 357 43 Cash ow hedge ineffectiveness recognised 3 1 Total net trading expense income 2,878 178 3 Net Operating Income 2008 2007 m m Included within net operating income are the following: Cash ow hedges: Net losses gains released from equity into income Note 41 2,561 417 Financial instruments at fair value through the income statement: Net losses gains from trading financial instruments and non hedging derivatives Note 2 3,238 222 Net losses gains from designated financial instruments 9,669 4,884 Available for sale financial instruments: Dividend income 108 291 Net realised gains on sale Note 41 24 281 Financial instruments designated as loans and receivables: Net realised gains on sale 22 3 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 63 4 Loss Pro t on Sale of Businesses Non-operating income consists of the following: 2008 2007 m m Loss on the sale of Bank of Western Australia Ltd and St. Andrews Australia Pty Ltd 845 Pro t on the part disposal of Rightmove plc Note 21 56 59 Distribution from Visa Inc shares listing 26 Pro t on the sale and leaseback of certain branch premises 20 28 Pro t on the sale of Insight Investment Management C. I.
Limited 4 743 91 On 8 October 2008, the HBOS Group agreed the sale of part of its Australian operations, principally Bank of Western Australia Ltd and St. Andrews Australia Pty Ltd, to Commonwealth Bank of Australia Limited.
The sale completed on 19 December 2008 and results in a pre-tax loss on disposal of 845m including goodwill written-off of 240m which is included as non-operating income within the loss pro t on sale of businesses for the year.
Under the share sale agreement HBOS plc has provided certain warranties to Commonwealth Bank of Australia, that all relevant, material circumstances and facts in relation to the sale have been disclosed and described in agreement.
The share sale agreement provided for adjustments to the initial purchase price based on the risk weighted assets of Bank of Western Australia Limited and the net assets of St. Andrews Australia Pty Limited.
As a result, the loss on sale of these businesses may be subject to adjustment for the contingent element of the commitment receivable.
Following the sale HBOS retains a presence in Australia through Bank of Scotland International Australia Limited and Capital Finance Australia Limited which are engaged in corporate banking and asset finance activities respectively, together with the Bank of Scotland plc Sydney branch and therefore this sale does not constitute a discontinued activity.
As such, the performance of the businesses sold and the loss on disposal remains within the pro t arising from continuing operations of the Group.
These businesses are reported in International division for segmental reporting purposes.
5 Insurance Premiums and Claims 2008 2007 m m Gross written premiums Long term insurance 4,542 4,739 General insurance 887 889 5,429 5,628 Premiums ceded to reinsurers 178 168 Net change in provision for unearned premiums 93 156 Net earned premiums on insurance contracts 5,344 5,616 2008 2007 m m Claims incurred Long term insurance 3,450 2,599 General insurance 334 420 3,784 3,019 Claim recoveries from reinsurers 81 67 63 Net claims incurred on insurance contracts 3,703 2,952 6 Change in Investment Contract Liabilities 2008 2007 m m Net change in investment contracts designated at fair value through the income statement 12,863 2,451 Net change in investment contracts with a discretionary participating feature 47 87 12,816 2,538 64 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 7 Administrative Expenses 2008 2007 m m Administrative expenses include: Regulatory provisions charge Note 36 : Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS management expenses levy 200 Unauthorised overdraft charges 122 Colleague costs Note 8 2,983 2,911 Accommodation, repairs and maintenance 493 450 Technology 261 273 Marketing and communication 432 380 8 Colleagues The Group refers to its employees as colleagues.
Most UK based colleagues are contractually employed by the Company.
The expense related to these colleagues is recharged to the subsidiary that gains the bene t of their employment and accordingly there are no residual staff costs held by the Company.
Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 Number Number Number Number The average number of colleagues employed during the year was: Full time 58,101 57,129 53,680 53,455 Part time 16,575 16,958 15,882 16,265 74,676 74,087 69,562 69,720 2008 2007 m m The aggregate remuneration payable in respect of Group colleagues is included within administrative expenses and comprises: Wages and salaries 2,348 2,340 Social security costs 207 226 Pension costs Note 33 268 201 Other post retirement bene ts Note 33 4 5 Expense arising from share-based payments Note 40 156 139 2,983 2,911 9 Directors Remuneration 2008 2007 000 000 Emoluments 8,891 11,834 a Compensation for loss of of ce 1,475 8,891 13,309 Total potential pre-tax gains on share options exercised 1 715 Total potential pre-tax gains on share schemes vested 1,306 4,989 10,198 19,013 a This includes non monetary bene ts of nil 2007 nil.
Highest Paid Director 2008 2007 000 000 b Emoluments 1,452 2,606 Total potential pre-tax gains on share options exercised 3 c Total potential pre-tax gains on share schemes vested 603 412 2,055 3,021 b This includes the 2007 element of the 2007 2008 biennial cash incentive of 121,000 2007 172,000. c As reported previously, a retention reward originally granted in January 2002 matured in 2005.
At this time, this was converted into shares and was subsequently placed in the Sharekicker Scheme maturing in March 2008.
The value on maturity was 466,000 and this is included in gains on share schemes vested.
The Directors waived their rights to any payment in respect of the 2008 element of the scheme.
2 Part year only Emoluments No bonuses were paid to any Directors with respect to 2008 following waiver by the Directors of their respective rights to receive these bonus payments.
Remuneration in respect of Non-executive Directors consists solely of fees.
No short or long term bonuses or bene ts were paid to any of the Non-executive Directors in the year.
The Group did not make any payments to Directors pensions during the year.
The table above includes in taxable bene ts and allowances the non-pensionable cash allowances payable to Executive Directors in lieu of any further service-related pension accrual.
The cash allowance was equivalent to 25% of salary, payable monthly.
The allowances paid in 2008 were: Peter Cummings 168,833: Jo Dawson 153,833: Mike Ellis 162,500: Philip Gore-Randall 138,000: Andy Hornby 256,000: Colin Matthew 65 157,416: Dan Watkins 130,000: Phil Hodkinson 53,750.
During the year the non-pensionable cash allowance for Andy Hornby was increased by the Remuneration Committee of the Company to 50% of salary with effect from April 2006.
Andy Hornby waived his entitlement to receive this incremental backdated increase of 645,000.
His allowance of 256,000 is equivalent to 25% of salary in 2008 as paid to all other Executive Directors.
Comparative year end totals of emoluments excluding the non-pensionable cash allowances are also shown in the table above.
Pension contributions paid, or treated as paid in the year, was nil 2007 5,000 to fide ned bene t schemes and nil 2007 nil to money purchase schemes and were attributed to nil Directors 2007 one.
Nil contributions related to the highest paid Director 2007 nil resulting in an accrued pension of 240,000 at the year end 2007 344,000.
Nil 2007 nil was paid to past Directors in respect of retirement bene ts in excess of their normal entitlements.
The fees paid to Dennis Stevenson comprises a payment made to him personally in respect of his service as Chairman of the Company of 795,000 2007 707,500.
66 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 9 Directors Remuneration continued From 1 May 2007 the basic Board membership fee payable to Non-executive Directors was at a rate of 66,000 p. a. and from 1 May 2008 this basic Board membership fee was increased to a rate of 70,000 p. a.
The basic Board membership fee covers the full range of duties and responsibilities associated with Non-Executive Directorship, including attending Board meetings and the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The gures shown in the table above also include, in respect of Non-executive Directors, fees for service on Committees of the Board and, where relevant, fees for services as Directors of Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures and for service on other Committees.
The taxable bene ts and allowances payment to Dennis Stevenson comprises a Distant Accommodation Allowance of 20,000 p. a..
Taxable bene ts and allowances for the Executive Directors comprise, where relevant, the bene t in kind values of company cars, healthcare, life assurance, concessionary rate mortgages and, a contribution towards the cost of providing distant accommodation away from the Executive Directors primary residential area, as well as the non-pensionable cash allowance mentioned earlier.
Resignations and terminations Phil Hodkinson retired as a main board Director on 30 April 2008.
He received no termination payment and his pension bene ts, based on service to 5 April 2006 when further service based accrual ceased and final pensionable salary at retirement, were reduced for early retirement based on the period between his retirement date and his 55th birthday in accordance with his contractual entitlements, having served 5 years as an Executive Director.
Charles Dunstone stood down as Non-executive Director from the Board immediately following the Companys Annual General Meeting on 29 April 2008.
Termination payments are not made to Non-executive Directors and no such payment was made to Charles Dunstone.
On 16 January 2009, on the acquisition of the Company by Lloyds TSB Group plc now Lloyds Banking Group plc LBG becoming effective, the Chairman and all other Directors of the Company other than Jo Dawson, Philip Gore-Randall and Dan Watkins were required to resign from the Board of the Company.
Jo Dawson, Philip Gore-Randall and Dan Watkins will resign from the Board of the Company during 2009.
For departing Executive Directors, the total payments and pension arrangements put in place at the termination of their respective employments do not, or will not, as the case may be go beyond their legal entitlements.
No severance payments will be made to Jo Dawson or Dan Watkins on their resignation from the Board of the Company, as they continue to be employed by LBG.
On termination of their contracts by the Company, Messrs Hornby and Stevenson waived their respective entitlements to receive their contractual severance payments under their service agreements.
Andy Hornby received a statutory redundancy payment of 2,970.
It was agreed that, on termination of their contracts, the following Executive Directors would receive payments in lieu of notice equivalent to 12 months salary in accordance with their contractual entitlements: for entering into certain post-termination restrictive covenants approximately 10,000 : and, in the case of Peter Cummings and Colin Matthew, statutory redundancy.
In total, these payments are as follows: Peter Cummings 702,080: Mike Ellis 670,500: Philip Gore-Randall 568,000: Colin Matthew 656,405.
No payments were made with respect to further service based pension accrual, or in lieu of pension.
On termination of his contract, Peter Cummings waived his right to receive a contractual bonus entitlement of 1,320,000 which had been earned in 2007 but deferred pursuant to its terms.
Pensions The pension entitlements of the Executive Directors who were active members of the HBOS Final Salary Pension Scheme the Scheme as at 31 December 2008 are set out in the table below: Executive Directors pension entitlements Transfer value of net increase Increase to accrued Increase in accrued pension less Accrued in accrued pension Transfer Directors pension pension over year value Increase in contributions Age at at 31 12 08 over year net of in ation at 31 12 08 transfer value at 31 12 08 Name 31 12 08 000 pa 000 pa 000 pa 000 000 000 P Cummings 53 369 25 7 7,090 1,120 141 J Dawson 46 100 11 6 1,394 210 85 A Hornby 41 240 20 9 2,813 406 103 C Matthew 58 416 18 1 9,089 1,290 32 D Watkins 46 218 56 47 2,845 873 619 The accrued pension at 31 December 2008 is the pension which the Director would have been entitled to receive based on his her completed pensionable service, had he she left on 31 December 2008 payable from normal retirement age age 60 and subject to revaluation increases between leaving and retirement.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 67 9 Directors Remuneration continued The transfer values are based on the accrued pensions at 31 December 2008 and are calculated as at 31 December 2008 respectively based on factors supplied by the actuaries, Watson Wyatt Limited.
The transfer value basis was reviewed by the scheme Actuary, Watson Wyatt Limited, during 2008 to take account of changes in legislation for the calculation of such values and the change in financial markets.
The resulting increase in the transfer values is predominantly as a result of applying the new basis to the accrued pensions at 31 December 2008.
The transfer values are the notional lump sums which would have been paid to another pension scheme for the bene t of the Director had he or she left service at the respective dates.
It is not possible for a transfer value to be paid directly to the Director personally.
The Directors contribution is the personal contribution required, if any, under the terms of the Scheme.
Members of the Scheme have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions: neither the additional voluntary contributions nor the resulting bene ts are included in the table.
For those Directors whose bene ts were above the Lifetime Allowance at A-day, there will be no further service accrual of bene ts and no further Directors contributions.
Those Directors receive the non-pensionable cash allowance referred to previously.
Philip Gore-Randall is not included in the Scheme and simply receives the cash allowance referred to previously.
Mike Ellis is in receipt of a pension from his earlier employment with the Group which is unaffected by, and independent of, his current employment.
In respect of his current employment he receives the cash allowance referred to previously.
Pension is generally based on retirement from service at normal retirement age age 60 and is based on final salary.
Pension and lump sum life assurance is provided from the Scheme and otherwise from separate arrangements with the Group.
On death after retirement or after leaving service, a spouses or dependants pension may be payable.
Childrens bene ts may also be payable.
Executive Directors who have five years service as an Executive Director have a contractual right to retire at age 55 or above with a non-reduced pension and at age 50 or above but below age 55 with a reduced pension.
Pension increases after retirement are a mixture of guaranteed and discretionary.
Scheme provisions vary by individual: the maximum extent of the Scheme guarantees is to increase pensions in line with the RPI, subject to a maximum of 5% p. a. and a minimum of 3% p. a. no minimum for pensionable service after 31st March 2004.
There is an established policy of reviewing pensions on a discretionary basis taking account of increases in the RPI.
Allowance is made in transfer values on leaving in respect of the guaranteed and discretionary increases outlined above.
Peter Cummings and Colin Matthew retired on termination of their respective employments with the Company on 16 January 2009, as referred to in Resignations and Terminations above.
Pension bene ts for Colin Matthew were provided without reduction for early payment, based on his service to 5 April 2006 when further service based accrual ceased and his final pensionable salary at retirement in line with his contractual right as set out above.
Pension bene ts for Peter Cummings were provided in accordance with the Companys standard policy for Directors and senior managers retiring at age 50 and above.
In such a case where a Director or senior manager retires by way of redundancy the Company does not reduce the pension payment to re ect retirement after the Directors or senior managers 55th birthday.
The notional additional capital cost of providing bene ts for Peter Cummings in accordance with this policy was 0.7m.
An actuarial reduction of 4.75% for early retirement based on the period between his retirement date and his 55th birthday was applied to his pension bene ts based on service to 5 April 2006 when further service based accrual ceased and his final pensionable salary at retirement.
As a result, and in waiving his entitlement to receive his contractual bonus of 1,320,000 referred to in Resignations and Terminations above, Peter Cummings received in total less than his legal entitlements.
Potential pre-tax gains on share options exercised During the year, two Directors exercised 2,045 options 2007 four Directors and 146,814 options under share option schemes.
The highest paid Director did not exercise any share options 2007 600 share options.
67 Shares vested under long term incentive schemes During the year, one Director Peter Cummings had a share grant of 43,350 shares released 2007 eight Directors had share grants of 530,101 released under long term incentive schemes, in accordance with his contractual entitlement under the rules of the schemes.
This relates to the 2003-2006 long term incentive plan granted in January 2003.
As explained in previous annual reports, all participants could choose to take any shares released after three years based on a three year performance outcome or could continue to participate in the plan for a further two years and take shares at that point based on the better of the three year and five year performance outcomes.
Peter Cummings elected to continue to participate in the plan for the further two years to the end of 2007.
HBOSs Total Shareholder Return over the five year performance period exceeded the weighted average of the comparator group by 1.57% consequently 183% of the original share grant was released under the terms of the long term incentive scheme on 27 February 2008.
No share grant was released 2007 a share grant of 36,223 shares under long term incentive plans in respect of the highest paid Director.
Dan Watkins has an element of pre April 2006 pension accrual being released over the period to April 2011.
68 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 9 Directors Remuneration continued Shares vested under short term incentive schemes During the year, seven Directors had share grants of 428,938 shares in total released 2007 seven Directors had share grants of 121,744 released under short term incentive schemes, in accordance with contractual entitlements under the rules of the schemes.
As explained in previous annual reports, Executive Directors could elect to take their annual and biennial incentives in HBOS shares.
If they elected to do so, and held the shares in trust for three years, additional shares were awarded.
The release of these 428,938 shares relates to the shares placed in trust using short term incentive plan awards in 2004 together with the additional shares awarded following the three year holding period.
In respect of Andy Hornby, a share grant of 49,191 was released under short term incentive plans, and a special award originally granted in 2002 of 212,739 shares was also released.
Both of these releases occurred before April 2008.
None of these releases related to performance in 2008.
The value of additional shares is shown net of income tax and National Insurance liability although the value of the additional shares was grossed up to take account of the associated income tax and National Insurance payable by the participant.
Value of shares vested under free shares plan During the year, 2,674 2007 nil free shares relating to six Directors 2007 no Directors vested.
In the year seven 2007 six Directors were awarded shares under the free shares plan see Note 40 for further detail.
In respect of the highest paid Director, 333 2007 nil, 2006 nil free shares vested in the year.
The net value of assets other than money, shares and options received by all Directors was nil.
Change of control All of the HBOS share plans contained a provision relating to change of control.
The acquisition of HBOS by LBG resulted in awards and options vesting and becoming exercisable, in accordance with contractual entitlements under plan rules.
Certain awards were exchanged for awards over LBG ordinary shares, but otherwise subject to the same terms as the original award.
Certain options will also be exchanged to the extent they have not been exercised within the 6 month exercise period following the change of control.
Where the vesting of awards and options were subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, in accordance with the plan rules and the terms of such conditions, the Remuneration Committee of the Company determined the extent to which such awards and options vested by taking into account the level of performance.
In relation to the Directors, the Remuneration Committee exercised this discretion by reducing vesting to exclude any payments in relation to the 2008 financial year.
The total payments made to Directors of the Company on change of control were Peter Cummings, 129,000 and 2,051 share options: Jo Dawson 139,000 and 3,330 share options: Mike Ellis 83,000: Philip Gore-Randall 73,000: Andy Hornby 251,000 and 7,599 share options: Colin Matthew 151,000: and Dan Watkins 88,000 and 3,330 share options.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 69 10 Auditors Remuneration During the year the Group including overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the companys auditor and its associates: 2008 2007 m m Statutory Group audit of the parent Company and consolidated accounts 0.3 0.3 Fees payable for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 6.7 7.7 Other services pursuant to legislation 7.1 1.0 Total audit and audit related services 14.1 9.0 Tax services 0.5 0.8 Services relating to information technology 0.1 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.1 0.3 Other services 1.0 1.2 Total other services 1.6 2.4 1 Total 15.7 11.4 1 Excludes value added taxes.
Other services pursuant to legislation includes reporting accountant services in support of the listing rules and includes the review of the half yearly results.
In respect of the Company, fees in respect of the statutory audit were 31,000 2007 22,000 and other fees amounted to 0.2m 2007 0.3m.
69 70 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 11 Segmental Analysis Principal activities of the HBOS Group are the provision of banking and other financial services in the UK and overseas.
The Groups activities are organised on a divisional basis which re ect the business sector segments below.
Information about the main divisions, including their key products and markets, is located in the Business Review.
Group Items principally comprises the expenses of managing the Group, including technology so far as it is not devolved to divisions, accommodation and other shared services such as cheque clearing and mailing.
Business sector 2008 Treasury & Insurance & Asset Group Retail Corporate Investment International Management Items Total m m m m m m m Net interest income internal 2,393 300 66 3,723 5,882 Net interest income external 6,630 1,980 31 5,197 5,605 8,171 Net fees and commission income internal 144 62 490 38 246 Net fees and commission income external 1,002 377 292 101 61 1,127 Net trading income external 56 643 21 2,312 2,878 Other operating income internal 66 3 37 106 Other operating income external 16 1,594 4,728 234 76 2,808 Net operating income expense 5,521 3,673 5,607 1,905 1,880 3,612 Administrative expenses internal 635 246 118 233 1,232 Administrative expenses external 1,339 649 726 786 65 1,549 5,114 Depreciation and amortisation 55 1,215 51 67 7 213 1,608 Goodwill impairment 69 4 85 158 Other operating expenses 6,167 25 6,192 Operating expenses 2,098 2,110 5,268 913 305 530 688 Impairment losses on loans and advances 2,230 6,669 958 9,857 Impairment losses on investment securities 737 35 1,421 2,193 Operating loss pro t 1,193 5,843 339 1 3,606 530 9,126 Share of loss pro t of jointly controlled entities and associates 3 950 2 10 21 956 Loss pro t on sale of businesses 102 845 743 Loss pro t before taxation 1,298 6,793 337 836 3,627 530 10,825 Total assets 266,197 127,705 77,588 67,865 147,148 3,414 689,917 Included in total assets: Interests in jointly controlled entities and associates 70 952 38 166 11 1,161 Loans and advances to customers 255,284 116,388 60,997 2,554 435,223 Total liabilities 192,233 54,470 68,580 24,212 336,244 679 676,418 Included in total liabilities: Customer accounts 143,703 38,500 87 6,507 33,454 222,251 Capital expenditure on property and equipment and software 91 1 144 111 12 357 716 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 71 11 Segmental Analysis continued Business sector In July 2008 the Group announced a divisional reorganisation under which the Groups Business Banking became part of Corporate division, moving from Retail division.
In addition, there was a transfer of Trading Cash Management from Treasury to Corporate division.
Accordingly the 2007 comparatives have been restated to re ect this new structure and certain other minor reorganisations.
There is no impact on the 2007 Consolidated Balance Sheet and Income Statement as previously published.
2007 Treasury & Insurance & Asset Group Retail Corporate Investment International Management Items Total m m m m m m m Net interest income internal 1,024 393 70 1,269 1,970 Net interest income external 5,020 1,769 28 2,357 1,814 7,304 Net fees and commission income internal 184 13 168 21 50 Net fees and commission income external 1,042 448 521 45 246 1,260 Net trading income external 7 65 7 3 130 178 Other operating income internal 19 15 45 79 Other operating income external 58 2,043 9,611 652 185 12,549 Net operating income 5,292 4,746 8,817 1,848 588 21,291 Administrative expenses internal 641 182 113 6 42 984 Administrative expenses external 1,452 773 680 665 283 1,126 4,979 Depreciation and amortisation 70 1,018 57 54 4 199 1,402 Goodwill impairment 5 5 Other operating expenses 7,406 278 7,684 Operating expenses 2,163 1,973 8,261 1,003 329 341 14,070 Impairment losses on loans and advances 1,277 619 116 2,012 Impairment losses on investment securities 22 37 1 60 Operating pro t loss 1,830 2,117 556 728 259 341 5,149 Share of loss pro t of jointly controlled entities and associates 9 232 2 17 4 234 Pro t on sale of businesses 87 4 91 Pro t loss before taxation 1,908 2,349 554 745 259 341 5,474 Total assets 259,255 122,642 88,454 76,087 119,806 773 667,017 Included in total assets: Interests in jointly controlled entities and associates 83 1,525 41 133 24 1,724 Loans and advances to customers 252,595 110,087 67,094 231 430,007 Total liabilities 218,614 59,624 81,905 35,580 245,758 3,302 644,783 Included in total liabilities: Customer accounts 154,034 48,334 101 23,585 17,167 243,221 Capital expenditure on property and equipment and software 6 43 11 83 16 397 556 71 72 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 11 Segmental Analysis continued Geographical The table below analyses the Group results and assets by geographical area based on the location of the customer.
2008 2007 Rest Rest UK of world Total UK of world Total m m m m m m Net interest income 6,455 1,716 8,171 6.044 1,260 7,304 Net fees and commission income 950 177 1,127 1,110 150 1,260 Net trading income 3,104 226 2,878 144 34 178 Other operating income 28 2,836 2,808 11,135 1,414 12,549 Net operating income 4,329 717 3,612 18,433 2,858 21,291 Administrative expenses 4,290 824 5,114 4,289 690 4,979 Depreciation and amortisation 1,535 73 1,608 1,341 61 1,402 Goodwill impairment 143 15 158 5 5 Other operating expenses 6,690 498 6,192 6,743 941 7,684 Operating expenses 722 1,410 688 12,378 1,692 14,070 Impairment losses on loans and advances 8,899 958 9,857 1,893 119 2,012 Impairment on investment securities 2,158 35 2,193 59 1 60 Operating loss pro t 6,006 3,120 9,126 4,103 1,046 5,149 Share of loss pro t of jointly controlled entities and associates 920 36 956 51 183 234 Loss pro t on sale of businesses 102 845 743 91 91 Loss pro t before taxation 6,824 4,001 10,825 4,245 1,229 5,474 Total assets 550,500 139,417 689,917 532,572 134,445 667,017 Included in total assets: Interests in jointly controlled entities and associates 756 405 1,161 1,442 282 1,724 Total liabilities 524,991 151,427 676,418 498,417 146,366 644,783 Included in total liabilities: Capital expenditure on property and equipment and software 575 141 716 473 83 556 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 73 12 Impairment Provisions and Losses a Impairment provisions and losses on loans and advances to customers designated as loans and receivables 2008 2007 Impairment provisions m m At 1 January 3,373 3,089 New impairment provisions less releases 9,964 2,111 Amounts written off 2,515 1,726 Disposal of subsidiary undertakings 115 Discount unwind interest income on impaired loans and advances to customers 149 129 Foreign exchange translation 135 28 At 31 December 10,693 3,373 Impairment provisions are held in respect of: Retail secured lending 1,219 330 Retail unsecured lending 1,819 1,889 Corporate 6,563 832 International 1,092 322 10,693 3,373 2008 2007 Impairment losses m m New impairment provisions less releases 9,964 2,111 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 107 99 Net charge to income statement 9,857 2,012 b Impairment provisions and losses on investment securities Total impairment losses on investment securities of 2,193m 2007 60m have been charged to the income statement, of which 1,270m 2007 23m relates to available for sale financial assets Note 41 and 923m 2007 37m relates to loans and receivables, as shown below.
2008 2007 Impairment provisions m m At 1 January New impairment provisions less releases 923 37 Amounts written off 37 At 31 December 923 Impairment provisions are held in respect of: Treasury 773 Corporate 150 923 2008 2007 Impairment losses m m New impairment provisions less releases 923 37 Net charge to income statement 923 37 73 74 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 13 Taxation The tax credit for the year of 3,409m 2007 tax charge of 1,365m includes a 893m tax credit 2007 18m tax charge in respect of the tax attributable to the policyholder earnings in the Groups UK life companies.
The 2007 tax charge of 1,365m includes a credit of 178m in respect of the change in the rate of UK corporation tax.
An overseas tax charge of 233m 2007 293m is within the tax credit of 3,409m.
2008 2007 m m Current tax Corporation tax on pro t for the year 286 1,156 Adjustments in respect of prior years 343 32 Overseas taxation on pro t for the year 219 285 Adjustments in respect of prior years 14 8 Relief for overseas taxation 49 73 445 1,344 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2,939 189 Adjustments in respect of prior years 25 10 Deferred tax changes in rates of corporation tax Note 34 178 2,964 21 Total income tax on loss pro t 3,409 1,365 The above tax expense is made up as follows: Tax on policyholder returns 893 18 Tax on shareholder returns 2,516 1,347 The main UK corporation tax rate reduced from 30% to 28% in April 2008.
The average rate of UK corporation tax for the year to December 2008 is 28.5%.
The effective tax rate for the year is 31.5% 2007 24.9% which is higher 2007 lower than the average rate of 28.5%.
The differences are explained below.
2008 2007 m m Loss pro t before taxation 10,825 5,474 Expected tax credit charge at 28.5% 2007 30% 3,085 1,642 Effects of: Changes in rates of corporation tax on deferred tax assets and liabilities 11 178 Income expenses not deductible chargeable for tax purposes 358 48 Net effect of differing tax rates overseas 20 29 Gains exempted or covered by losses 135 90 Policyholder tax for life assurance business 639 13 Impairment on investment securities 56 16 Adjustments in respect of previous periods 341 14 Tax losses where no deferred tax provided 310 Other 36 5 Total income tax on loss pro t 3,409 1,365 Current tax credit recognised directly in equity Relating to share plans 21 Relating to available for sale investments 11 117 11 138 Deferred tax credit charge recognised directly in equity Note 34 Relating to share plans 2 64 Relating to available for sale investments 1,917 65 Relating to cash ow hedges 376 219 Relating to employee bene ts 202 130 Relating to long term assurance 5 Relating to other 1 2,089 86 In addition there is nil 2007 1m recognised in equity relating to changes in the rates of corporation tax Note 34.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 75 14 Earnings Per Share Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share are based upon Group loss pro t attributable to ordinary shareholders of 7,580 m 2007 pro t 3,965m which is calculated as follows: 2008 2007 m m Loss pro t attributable to parent company shareholders 7,499 4,045 Pro t attributable to preference shareholders 81 80 Loss pro t attributable to ordinary shareholders for continuing operations 7,580 3,965 The average number of ordinary shares in issue in the prior year has been adjusted by the adjustment factor of 1.001 arising from the Rights Issue and by a factor of 1.026 arising from the Capitalisation Issue.
The impact on previously published comparatives is as follows: 2007 As published: Average number of ordinary shares in issue for basic EPS millions 3,735 - Earnings basic 106.2p - Earnings diluted 105.5p Restated: Average number of ordinary shares in issue for basic EPS millions 3,835 - Earnings basic 103.4p - Earnings diluted 102.8p To calculate basic earnings per ordinary share the weighted average number of 25p ordinary shares is used and for diluted earnings per ordinary share the weighted average number of actual and potential 25p ordinary shares is used.
Details of these are given below: 2008 2007 Number Number million million restated Actual weighted average number of shares in issue 4,518 3,835 Effect of dilutive share options and shares potentially to be issued or allotted 17 23 Potential weighted average number of shares in issue 4,535 3,858 The basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share are given below: 2008 2007 pence pence restated Earnings per ordinary share continuing operations - Basic 167.8 103.4 1 - Diluted 167.8 102.8 75 1 The effect of dilutive share options and shares potentially to be issued or allotted has not been included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share for 2008 because doing so would have an anti-dilutive effect.
15 Loss Pro t Attributable to Equity Shareholders By virtue of the exemption contained within Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the income statement of the Company is not presented.
Of the loss attributable to equity shareholders a loss of 1,902m 2007 pro t 1,731m is dealt within the financial statements of the Company.
76 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 16 Financial Instruments Held for Trading Financial assets and liabilities held for trading other than derivatives are as follows: 2008 2007 m m Financial assets held for trading Debt securities 13,538 36,723 Loans and advances to banks 3,344 11,601 Loans and advances to customers 5,689 6,357 Total 22,571 54,681 Financial liabilities held for trading Debt securities in issue 469 Deposits by banks 7,631 8,989 Customer accounts 11,220 13,247 Total 18,851 22,705 Financial assets held for trading include 4,369m 2007 4,711m subject to repurchase Note 54.
Following the International Accounting Standards Boards IASB decision in October 2008 to permit the reclassi cation of financial assets, the Groups Treasury division reclassi ed certain securities from assets held for trading into the available for sale AFS portfolio, and subsequently, in light of increasing illiquidity in the markets for asset backed securities ABS, changed the classi cation of ABS from AFS to loans and receivables.
Further details of these reclassi cations are shown in Note 45.
17 Derivatives The Groups derivative transactions are either customer driven and generally matched, held within policyholder funds as permitted by the investment strategies or are carried out for proprietary purposes within limits approved by the Board.
Where a derivative held for economic hedging purposes does not qualify for hedge accounting, it is classi ed below as held for trading.
The Group uses interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and other derivative instruments to hedge and reduce the interest rate and currency exposures that are inherent in any banking business.
The hedge accounting strategy adopted by the Group is to utilise a combination of the macro cash ow, micro fair value and net investment hedge approaches.
2008 2007 Fair Value Fair Value Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m Total derivatives assets liabilities: Held for trading 29,728 29,608 9,381 8,068 Held as qualifying hedges 22,082 9,297 4,760 4,243 Total recognised derivative assets liabilities 51,810 38,905 14,141 12,311 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 77 17 Derivatives continued 2008 2007 Group Fair value Fair value Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m Derivatives held for trading Exchange rate related contracts: Forward foreign exchange 2,209 3,690 1,035 856 Cross currency swaps 3,144 1,207 667 297 Options 1 1 5,353 4,897 1,703 1,154 Interest rate related contracts: Interest rate swaps 19,417 21,267 5,716 5,598 Forward rate agreements 1,474 1,461 119 111 Options 1,031 760 225 287 Futures 99 199 20 40 22,021 23,687 6,080 6,036 Equity index and commodity related contracts: Options and swaps 1,606 991 1,412 870 Credit related contracts: Credit default swaps 748 33 186 8 Total derivative assets liabilities held for trading 29,728 29,608 9,381 8,068 The Group has entered into derivative contracts for qualifying hedges as noted below: 2008 2007 Group Fair value Fair value Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m Derivatives held as qualifying hedges Derivatives designated as fair value hedges: Interest rate swaps 4,738 574 732 575 Forward foreign exchange 27 Cross currency swaps 8,863 183 1,679 1,682 Options 55 13,601 812 2,411 2,284 Derivatives designated as cash ow hedges: Interest rate swaps 7,218 8,337 1,558 1,801 Forward rate agreements 46 21 10 4 Cross currency swaps 1,037 123 756 139 Options 180 Futures 4 25 15 8,481 8,485 2,349 1,959 Total derivative assets liabilities held as qualifying hedges 22,082 9,297 4,760 4,243 77 The Company has derivatives designated as fair value hedges.
These comprise cross currency swaps with an asset fair value of 2,495m 2007 154m and a liability fair value of nil 2007 49m, interest rate swaps with an asset fair value of 88m 2007 8m and a liability fair value of nil 2007 7m and indexation swaps to hedge subordinated debt with an asset fair value of 55m 2007 nil, and a liability fair value of 55m 2007 nil.
78 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 18 Loans and Advances to Customers 2008 2007 m m Retail secured lending 239,758 235,858 Retail unsecured lending 18,592 18,908 Corporate, International and Treasury 187,566 178,614 Gross loans and advances to customers 445,916 433,380 Impairment losses on loans and advances Note 12 10,693 3,373 Net loans and advances to customers 435,223 430,007 Included in loans and advances to customers is 56,858m 2007 nil subject to repurchase Note 54.
Loans and advances to customers include advances securitised under the Groups securitisation and covered bonds programmes.
Further details are given in Note 19.
The Groups gross lending exposure before impairment provisions and before taking account of collateral is analysed below: 2008 2007 m m Agriculture, forestry and shing 574 647 Energy 1,318 2,269 Manufacturing industry 3,887 4,332 Construction and property 46,634 41,099 Hotels, restaurants and wholesale and retail trade 12,368 12,620 Transport, storage and communication 7,693 6,834 Financial 8,729 6,312 Other services 12,688 14,749 Individuals Residential mortgages 238,696 235,771 Other personal lending 22,604 19,229 Non-UK residents 90,725 89,518 445,916 433,380 2008 2007 m m Loans and advances that are neither past due nor impaired Note 48 403,484 411,389 Loans and advances that are past due but not impaired Note 48 16,401 11,629 Impaired loans Note 48 26,031 10,362 445,916 433,380 Included in loans and advances that are neither past due nor impaired are 478m 2007 229m of troubled debt restructured loans that would have been past due or impaired had their terms not been renegotiated.
Loans and advances to customers include finance leases analysed as follows: 2008 2007 m m Gross investment in finance receivables: Within one year 2,994 3,206 Between one and five years 4,904 5,805 More than five years 3,986 4,221 11,884 13,232 Less: unearned finance income 1,849 3,234 Present value of minimum lease payments 10,035 9,998 Analysed as: Within one year 2,407 2,669 Between one and five years 3,796 4,646 More than five years 3,832 2,683 Finance lease receivables 10,035 9,998 At 31 December 2008 total unguaranteed residual values accrued to the bene t of the Group amounted to nil 2007 20m and total accumulated allowances for uncollectable minimum lease payments receivable amounted to 105m 2007 67m.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 79 19 Securitisation and Covered Bonds a Securitisation Loans and advances to customers include advances securitised under the Groups securitisation programmes, the majority of which have been sold by subsidiary companies to bankruptcy remote special purpose entities SPEs.
As the SPEs are funded by the issue of debt on terms whereby some of the risks and rewards of the portfolio are retained by the subsidiary, the SPEs are consolidated fully and all of these advances are retained on the Groups balance sheet, with the related notes in issue included within debt securities in issue.
b Covered bonds Certain loans and advances to customers have been assigned to bankruptcy remote limited liability partnerships to provide security to issues of covered bonds by the Group.
The Group retains substantially all of the risks and rewards associated with these loans and the partnerships are consolidated fully with the loans retained on the Groups balance sheet, with the related covered bonds included within debt securities in issue.
The Groups principal securitisation and covered bonds programmes, together with the balances of the advances subject to notes in issue at 31 December, are listed below.
The notes in issue are reported in Note 37.
2008 2007 Gross assets Notes in Gross assets Notes in securitised issue securitised issue Securitisation Type of loan m m m m Permanent UK residential mortgages 32,613 38,490 31,577 31,540 Mound UK residential mortgages 8,063 8,238 4,545 4,454 Swan Australian residential mortgages 2,726 2,689 Candide Dutch residential mortgages 5,569 5,704 2,705 2,759 Prominent Commercial loans 1,053 1,149 1,107 1,108 Pendeford UK residential mortgages 9,888 9,870 2,508 2,551 Melrose Commercial loans 750 1,134 Balliol UK residential mortgages 12,701 12,549 Brae UK residential mortgages 9,213 9,955 Dakota UK residential mortgages 3,988 3,885 Deva UK residential mortgages 6,747 6,703 Penarth Credit card receivables 4,189 2,633 Tioba UK residential mortgages 2,647 2,568 Trinity UK residential mortgages 12,975 12,638 Wolfhound Irish residential mortgages 4,083 4,107 Other UK residential mortgages 68 179 68 182 113,797 118,668 45,986 46,417 Covered Bonds Covered Bonds UK residential mortgages 51,756 49,408 34,711 38,315 Social Housing Covered Bonds UK residential mortgages 3,475 2,919 2,354 1,519 55,231 52,327 37,065 39,834 Total securitisations and covered bonds 169,028 170,995 83,051 86,251 Less held by the Group 97,363 94,265 1,258 1,258 Total 71,665 76,730 81,793 84,993 79 The balances reported for the Prominent securitisation above include 456m 2007 459m advances and 456m 2007 459m notes in issue that arise from a funded synthetic securitisation.
Cash deposits of 12,423m 2007 5,144m held by the Group are restricted in use to repayment of the debt securities issued by the SPEs and other legal obligations.
In addition to the programmes noted above, the Group entered into synthetic securitisations, referencing an asset pool of nil 2007 14,089m, using credit default swaps of nil 2007 40m.
In total the Group has securitised 97,363m of mortgage assets under certain securitisation and covered bond programmes and purchased all of the loan notes in issue relating to those issuances for 94,265m.
These transactions did not lead to any derecognition of the mortgage assets as the Group has retained all of the risks and rewards associated with the loan notes.
See Note 54 for further details about the Groups repurchase transactions.
80 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 19 Securitisation and Covered Bonds continued c Other special purpose entities In addition to the SPEs described above, the Group sponsors two conduit programmes, Grampian and Landale, which invest in asset-backed securities funded by commercial paper or through banking facilities.
Details of the assets secured under these conduit programmes are given in Note 20.
The SPEs within these conduit programmes are consolidated fully, except for two of the four SPEs within Landale.
One is the central funding company for the conduit that obtains external funding and lends it to the purchasing companies.
The second is a purchasing company that has acquired oating rate notes issued under the Groups mortgage securitisation programmes and which is supported by liquidity lines that are provided by third party banks.
These entities are not consolidated as there are insuf cient indicators of control, in particular as the credit risk relating to the assets held by the entities and the liquidity risks are not borne by the Group.
If these two entities were consolidated by the Group the financial impact would be minimal with the principal effects increasing deposits by banks by 1,126m 2007 1,756m and customer accounts by 51m 2007 100m and increasing debt securities in issue by 50m 2007 decrease by 1,856m.
Group pro t before tax would be increased by 2m 2007 0.5m.
Included in investment securities is 37,263m 2007 8,996m subject to repurchase Note 54.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 81 20 Investment Securities continued The fair value movement during the year on investment securities held at fair value through the income statement is a loss of 13,415m 2007 gain of 1,014m and the fair value movement during the year on investment securities classi ed as available for sale is a loss of 8,173m 2007 a loss of 429m.
Loans and receivables debt securities include ABS of 17,703m end 2007 available for sale debt securities 18,563m which are held in the Groups Grampian conduit.
This is a series of bankruptcy remote special purpose entities SPEs that are funded by the issue of commercial paper and banking facilities.
The commercial paper is included within debt securities in issue.
As some of the rewards and risks of the portfolio are retained by the Group, including the provision of liquidity facilities by Bank of Scotland plc to the conduit, the assets and liabilities of the conduit are consolidated as part of the Group.
The Group also has a smaller conduit, Landale, of which two of the four SPEs are consolidated.
These hold available for sale debt securities of 681m 2007 604m.
Details of the Landale SPEs that are not consolidated by the Group are given in Note 19.
No investment securities held by the Company at 31 December 2008 2007 1m.
21 Interests in Jointly Controlled Entities and Associates Acquired Equity Share of Carrying book value adjustments net assets Goodwill value Interests in jointly controlled entities m m m m m At 1 January 2008 as restated 1,334 12 1,346 5 1,351 Exchange translation 1 1 1 Acquisitions and subscriptions of capital 329 329 329 Disposals 59 3 62 62 Loss after tax 669 669 669 Dividends paid 12 12 12 At 31 December 2008 1,605 672 933 5 938 The Groups share of jointly controlled entities include the following: Loss pro t Current Non-current Current Non-current Income Expenses Tax after tax assets assets liabilities liabilities Equity m m m m m m m m m 2008 440 245 16 669 2,388 5,470 1,562 5,358 938 2007 529 282 13 234 5,802 5,768 5,126 5,093 1,351 The Groups unrecognised share of losses for the year is 164m 2007 22m.
For entities making losses, subsequent pro ts earned are not recognised until previously unrecognised losses are extinguished.
The Groups unrecognised share of losses net of unrecognised pro ts on a cumulative basis is 211m 2007 68m.
Acquired Equity Share of Carrying book value adjustments net assets Goodwill value Interests in associates m m m m m At 1 January 2008 as restated 367 6 373 373 Exchange translation 1 1 1 Acquisitions and subscriptions of capital 160 160 160 Disposals 14 14 14 Loss after tax 287 287 287 81 Dividends paid 8 8 8 At 31 December 2008 512 289 223 223 82 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 21 Interests in Jointly Controlled Entities and Associates continued The Groups share of associates include the following: Loss Revenue after tax Assets Liabilities Equity m m m m m 2008 277 287 2,688 2,465 223 2007 26 1,876 1,503 373 The Groups unrecognised share of losses for the year is 126m 2007 5m.
The Groups unrecognised share of losses net of unrecognised pro ts on a cumulative basis is 131m 2007 4m.
The Groups main jointly controlled entities at 31 December 2008 are as follows: Nature of Issued Groups Statutory Principal business share interest accounts area of capital made up to operations Jointly controlled entities AA Personal Finance Limited Finance ordinary 3,000,002 50% December 2008 UK esure Holdings Ltd Insurance ordinary 3,330,000 70% December 2008 UK preference 175,170,000 100% Green Property Investment Fund 1 plc Investment ordinary 41,198,100 50% June 2008 Ireland Sainsburys Bank plc Banking ordinary 170,000,000 50% December 2008 UK Except for the Green Property Investment Fund 1 plc which is incorporated in Ireland, all of the interests in jointly controlled entities above are incorporated in the UK.
All interests in jointly controlled entities are held by subsidiaries.
Where entities have accounts that are drawn up to a date other than 31 December management accounts are used when accounting for them by the Group.
The Groups remaining holding of 13% in Rightmove plc was disposed of during the year Note 4.
During the year, the Group reviewed the classi cation of its investments in jointly controlled entities and associates together with its long term investment loans to joint ventures, collectively the Groups longer term interests in jointly controlled entities and associates in light of the deteriorating economic environment.
As a result of this review, certain longer term investment securities that in substance form part of the Groups overall net investment in jointly controlled entities and associates have been transferred from investment securities - debt securities classi ed as loans and receivables to interests in jointly controlled entities and associates.
These longer term interests include loans for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Groups interests in jointly controlled entities and associates have been restated in the 2007 consolidated balance sheet as shown below.
There is no overall impact on the net assets at 31 December 2007 as a result of this restatement.
Certain 2007 disclosures have been amended accordingly.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 83 21 Interests in Jointly Controlled Entities and Associates continued Acquired Equity Share of Carrying book value adjustments net assets Goodwill value Interests in jointly controlled entities m m m m m At 1 January 2007 as published 520 105 415 5 420 Transfer from investment securities 515 515 515 At 1 January 2007 as restated 1,035 105 930 5 935 At 31 December 2007 as published 819 12 831 5 836 At 31 December 2007 as restated 1,334 12 1,346 5 1,351 Acquired Equity Share of Carrying book value adjustments net assets Goodwill value Interests in associates m m m m m At 1 January 2007 as published 133 48 181 181 Transfer from investment securities 224 224 224 At 31 January 2007 as restated 357 48 405 405 At 31 December 2007 as published 143 6 149 149 At 31 December 2007 as restated 367 6 373 373 22 Investments in Subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries comprise investments in ordinary shares and capital contributions carried at cost.
Ordinary Capital shares contributions Total m m m At 1 January 2008 13,442 1,033 14,475 Subscriptions of capital 5,500 5,500 Impairment losses 4,192 4,192 At 31 December 2008 14,750 1,033 15,783 The impairment of 4,192m represents the write down of the companys investment in Bank of Scotland plc to a recoverable amount, based upon value in use, of 11,919m.
The critical accounting estimate in respect of investment in subsidiaries explains the assumptions used and sensitivity of the impairment testing.
The write-downs have been triggered principally by deteriorating economic conditions.
Amounts owed by Group entities of 50,157m 2007 38,885m include 12,499m 2007: 10,044m of other borrowed funds loaned to subsidiaries.
The main subsidiaries at 31 December 2008 are as follows: Companys interest in ordinary Country of share capital and voting rights Principal business incorporation Bank of Scotland plc 100% Banking, financial and related services UK and subsidiaries, including Bank of Scotland Ireland Ltd 100% Banking Ireland HBOS Australia Pty Ltd and subsidiaries 100% Banking Australia a HBOS Covered Bonds LLP 100% Residential mortgage funding UK Halifax Share Dealing Ltd 100% Execution only stockbroking UK 83 HBOS Insurance & Investment Group Ltd 100% Investment holding UK and subsidiaries, including Halifax General Insurance Services Ltd 100% General insurance brokerage UK St. Andrews Insurance plc 100% General insurance UK Clerical Medical Investment Group Ltd 100% Life assurance UK Clerical Medical Managed Funds Ltd 100% Life assurance UK Halifax Life Ltd 100% Life assurance UK Halifax Investment Fund Managers Ltd 100% OEIC management UK Insight Investment Management Ltd 100% Investment management UK Invista Real Estate Investment Management Holdings plc 55% Property investment management UK St. Andrews Life Assurance plc 100% Pensions UK St. Jamess Place plc 60% Financial services UK a HBOS Covered Bonds LLP does not have ordinary share capital.
The Group consolidates a 100% interest in this entity.
84 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22 Investments in Subsidiaries continued The above information is provided in relation to the principal related undertakings and, in accordance with Section 231 5 of the Companies Act 1985, a full list of related undertakings, as at 31 December 2008, will be annexed to the Companys next Annual Return to be delivered to the Registrar of Companies for Scotland.
On 17 September 2007 in accordance with the provisions of the HBOS Group Reorganisation Act 2006 the Act, the Governor and Company of the Bank of Scotland registered as a public limited company under the Companies Act and changed its name to Bank of Scotland plc.
On the same day, under the Act, the business activities, assets including investments in subsidiaries and liabilities of CAPITAL BANK plc, Halifax plc and HBOS Treasury Services plc transferred to Bank of Scotland plc.
All regulated banking and insurance subsidiaries are required to maintain capital at levels agreed with the relevant regulators: this may impact those subsidiaries ability to make distributions.
23 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 2008 2007 Group m m Goodwill 1,556 1,940 Other intangibles 819 850 2,375 2,790 2008 2007 Goodwill m m At 1 January 1,940 1,889 Exchange translation 30 38 Additions 33 Disposals 256 15 Impairment losses charged to the income statement 158 5 At 31 December 1,556 1,940 Goodwill is analysed on a divisional basis as follows: 2008 2007 m m Retail 376 455 Corporate 268 277 Insurance & Investment 850 832 International 23 337 Treasury & Asset Management 39 39 Total 1,556 1,940 The primary component of goodwill disposed of comprises 240m in respect of the sale of Bank of Western Australia Ltd and St. Andrews Australia Pty Ltd to Commonwealth Bank of Australia Note 4.
The Group carries out semi-annual and, if necessary, other impairment reviews of cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated as described in the accounting policy on goodwill.
The critical accounting estimate in respect of goodwill explains the assumptions used and sensitivity of the impairment testing.
The goodwill impairment of 158m principally comprises 72m being the full write-down of goodwill held in respect of the acquisition of the ICC business banking division in Ireland and 50m being the write-down of goodwill relating to a specialist area of the UK credit card business to a recoverable amount, based on a value in use, of 20m.
In 2007, the impairment loss of 5m related to a partial write-down of the goodwill held in respect of fund management business in Insurance & Investment division.
Cumulative impairment losses charged to the income statement total 218m 2007 60m, 2006 55m and 2005 nil.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 85 23 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets continued 2008 2007 Purchased Purchased value of Software value of Software in-force and other in-force and other investment intangible investment intangible contracts assets Total contracts assets Total Other intangible assets m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 396 1,333 1,729 396 1,069 1,465 Exchange translation 39 39 24 24 Acquired through business combination 7 7 Additions 306 306 249 249 Disposals 113 113 16 16 Disposal of subsidiary undertakings 3 94 97 At 31 December 393 1,471 1,864 396 1,333 1,729 Amortisation At 1 January 75 804 879 45 620 665 Exchange translation 12 12 23 23 Amortisation charge for the year 27 182 209 30 163 193 Disposals 2 2 2 2 Disposal of subsidiary undertakings 1 52 53 At 31 December 101 944 1,045 75 804 879 Carrying value At 1 January 321 529 850 351 449 800 At 31 December 292 527 819 321 529 850 The Company has other intangible assets relating to licenses at a cost of 10m 2007 10m less accumulated amortisation of 6m 2007 4m, of which 2m 2007 2m is the amortisation charge for the year.
24 Property and Equipment 2008 2007 Property Equipment Total Property Equipment Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 1,733 1,622 3,355 1,662 1,613 3,275 Exchange translation 17 45 62 5 11 16 Additions 180 230 410 123 185 308 Disposals 118 165 283 38 187 225 Disposal of subsidiary undertakings 53 108 161 Transfer to investment property Note 25 84 84 19 19 At 31 December 1,675 1,624 3,299 1,733 1,622 3,355 Depreciation At 1 January 628 1,233 1,861 590 1,112 1,702 Exchange translation 8 31 39 5 7 12 Depreciation charge for the year 63 158 221 59 165 224 Impairment losses on property under construction 10 10 85 Disposals 29 135 164 26 51 77 Disposal of subsidiary undertakings 16 85 101 At 31 December 664 1,202 1,866 628 1,233 1,861 Carrying value At 1 January 1,105 389 1,494 1,072 501 1,573 At 31 December 1,011 422 1,433 1,105 389 1,494 Included within Group property and equipment are assets that are in the course of construction amounting to 89m 2007 306m which are not depreciated until the assets are brought into use.
These are primarily properties that will be classi ed as investment properties upon completion.
86 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25 Investment Properties 2008 2007 m m At 1 January 4,731 5,010 Additions 128 Disposals 398 58 Exchange translation 1 Net movement in properties held by policyholder funds 143 351 Fair value movement 1,358 591 Transfer from property and equipment Note 24 84 19 At 31 December 3,045 4,731 Investment properties are carried at their fair value as determined by independent quali ed surveyors having recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued.
Fair values were determined having regard to recent market transactions for similar properties and in accordance with guidance published by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Valuations are performed at least annually.
Rental income and expenses in respect of the above properties amounted to 241m and 15m respectively 2007 221m and 11m respectively.
At 31 December 2008 investment properties of 3,001m 2007 4,697m are held in the Insurance & Investment business.
26 Operating Lease Assets Assets leased to customers include the following amounts in respect of operating lease assets: 2008 2007 Carrying Carrying Cost Depreciation value Cost Depreciation value m m m m m m At 1 January 6,483 1,840 4,643 6,164 1,483 4,681 Exchange translation 96 34 62 28 30 2 Additions 1,488 1,488 1,785 1,785 Disposals 1,733 685 1,048 1,438 598 840 Depreciation charge for the year 1,178 1,178 985 985 At 31 December 6,334 2,367 3,967 6,483 1,840 4,643 Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are due to be received in the following periods: 2008 2007 m m Not later than one year 849 864 Later than one year and not later than five years 2,245 1,920 Later than five years 52 689 3,146 3,473 Included in the depreciation charge for the year is 144m 2007 1m in relation to changes in the estimated residual values of certain operating lease assets.
Total future minimum sub-lease income of 18m at 31 December 2008 25m at 31 December 2007 is expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases of the Groups premises.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 87 27 Deferred Costs 2008 2007 m m Deferred acquisition costs 423 352 Deferred origination costs 758 749 1,181 1,101 The change in deferred costs is analysed as follows: 2008 2007 m m At 1 January 1,101 853 Acquisition costs deferred during the year 418 586 Amortisation 312 340 Transfers Note 28 27 Disposal of subsidiary undertakings 3 Exchange translation 4 2 At 31 December 1,181 1,101 28 Value of In-Force Long Term Assurance Business 2008 2007 m m At 1 January 3,184 3,104 Unwind of discount rate 255 245 Expected return in the year 527 415 Effect of experience in the year 736 201 New business 523 567 Changes in assumptions 96 180 Transfers 164 Exchange translation 225 64 At 31 December 2,992 3,184 Transfer from investment contracts to long term insurance contracts During the year to 31 December 2008 changes have been made to certain investment bonds with additional life cover being added.
In accordance with IFRS 4 Insurance contracts this results in these products transferring from being accounted for as investment contracts to insurance contracts.
This has resulted in a 281m increase in the value of in-force long term assurance business.
This is partly offset by a net 96m, principally arising from a reduction in deferred origination costs, which are charged to fees and commission expense.
The overall impact of this change is an increase in pro t before tax of 185m.
Also included within transfers is 117m that relates to a transfer from value of in-force long term assurance business to deferred costs.
Assumptions The key assumptions used in the measurement of the value of in-force long term assurance business relating to insurance contracts and investment contracts with a discretionary participating feature DPF are determined by the Board of Directors.
The economic assumptions that have the greatest effect on the calculation of the value in-force long term assurance business are set out below.
87 The experience assumptions set out in Note 30 also have a signi cant effect on the cash ow projections.
The selection of these assumptions requires the application of material judgement and is made with reference to historic trends, taking into account the analysis of actual versus expected experience as well as industry data.
Additional information on the long term assurance business risk is set out on pages 28 to 30 of the Risk Management report.
Discount rate The discount rate is used to calculate the present value of the future projected cash ows.
In 2008 each cash ow is valued using the discount rate consistent with that applied to such a cash ow in the capital markets.
In practice, to achieve the same result, where the cash ows are either independent of or move linearly with market movements, a method has been applied known as the certainty equivalent approach whereby it is assumed that all assets earn the risk free rate and all cash ows are discounted at the risk free rate.
The risk free rate assumed in valuing in-force business is equal to the 15 year gilt yield.
This applies to all business with the exception of immediate annuity business.
88 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 28 Value of In-Force Long Term Assurance Business continued The discount rate for annuity business is assumed to be higher than the risk free rate.
Assets backing immediate annuity business are invested in a mix of government stocks and corporate bonds, which are generally held to maturity.
The yield on corporate bonds typically exceeds the risk free rate, partly re ecting the risk of default, but also re ecting a premium required by investors as compensation for lower liquidity when compared with government stocks.
The discount rate for annuity business is based on the risk free rate with an allowance for this liquidity premium.
It is assumed that the premium over the risk free rate is equal to 75% of the spread between the yield on HBOSs portfolio of corporate bonds and the yield on government stocks.
In 2007 the risk discount rate was increased to re ect the uncertainty associated with the projected cash ows.
This increase can be broken down into two principal components, being the market risk component and the non-market risk component.
The market risk component represented an allowance for uncertainty as to the level of future margins that would actually be achieved by the Groups investments.
The level of the market risk component was chosen so as to avoid capitalising any investment risk premiums over the long term view of the risk free rate of return.
Following the move to the certainty equivalent approach in 2008, this adjustment is no longer required as it is assumed that all assets earn the risk free rate.
The non-market risk component represented an additional allowance in the risk discount rate to re ect the potential volatility of, and uncertainty around, the future level of non-market risk inherent in the contracts.
In 2008 this has been replaced by an explicit allowance for non-market risk, as described below.
The breakdown of the discount rate is shown in the table below: 2008 2007 % % Risk free rate of return 3.74 5.0 Market risk component n a 1.0 Non-market risk component n a 2.0 Total 3.74 8.0 Investment return In 2008 it is assumed that all assets earn the risk free rate, in line with the certainty equivalent approach described above, with the exception of immediate annuity business.
For annuity business the assumed return is equal to the risk free rate plus the allowance for the liquidity premium, calculated as described for the discount rate above.
In 2007 assumptions were set for each individual asset class based on the long term view of expected returns, and weighted to produce an investment return assumption for each particular class of business.
The weighting was based on the long term asset allocation strategy for each class of business.
In 2007 the long term view of expected returns was 5.0-5.5% for xed interest securities and 7.5% for equities.
Expenses Operating expense assumptions re ect the projected costs of maintaining and servicing in-force insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF and associated overhead expenses.
The current level of expenses is taken as an appropriate expense base.
The current expenses are analysed having regard to the volume and type of business in force to derive per contract expense assumptions.
These per policy expense assumptions are assumed to increase over the course of the projections in line with expected expenses over the plan period reverting to an assumed expense in ation rate of 3% 2007 3% thereafter.
Non-market risk An allowance for non-market risk is made through the choice of best estimate assumptions based upon experience, which generally will give the mean expected financial outcome for shareholders and hence no further allowance for non-market risk is required.
However, in the case of operational risk and the with-pro ts fund there are asymmetries in the range of potential outcomes for which an explicit allowance is made.
Changes in assumptions During the year, the certainty equivalent approach described above was adopted, whereby it is assumed that all assets earn the risk free rate and all cash ows are discounted at the risk free rate.
This applies to all business with the exception of immediate annuity business, for which the discount rate is based on the risk free rate plus an allowance for the liquidity premium.
The certainty equivalent approach has the effect of increasing the value of in-force business assets by 143m in 2008, but has no effect on the valuation of the related insurance contract liabilities.
In addition to this, there were a number of changes to the underlying experience assumptions used to estimate the cash ows from the long term assurance business.
The selection of these assumptions also requires the application of material judgement and is made with reference to historic trends, taking into account the analysis of actual versus expected experience as well as industry data.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 89 28 Value of In-Force Long Term Assurance Business continued Sensitivities The tables below indicate the stand alone impact of changes to certain key variables on long term assurance business, this includes the impact on long term insurance contracts, investment contracts with DPF, value of in-force long term assurance business and related financial assets in support of the long term business but excluding those relating to investment contract liabilities.
2008 Increase decrease in pro t Change in after tax variable m Interest rates increase into perpetuity 25bps 24 Equity property market values fall and thereafter increase based on the long term view of the risk free rate -10% 97 Maintenance expenses fall and thereafter increase by the estimated expense in ation rate -10% 46 Mortality morbidity rates decrease across all non annuity policy types and age groups -5% 33 Mortality rates decrease across all annuity policy types and age groups -5% 25 Lapse and surrender rates decrease across all policy types and cohorts over the duration of their lives excluding paid-up policies -10% 114 2007 Increase decrease in pro t Change in after tax variable m Interest rates increase into perpetuity 25bps 23 Equity property market values fall and thereafter increase based on the long term view of the risk free rate -10% 106 Maintenance expenses fall and thereafter increase by the estimated expense in ation rate -10% 43 Mortality morbidity rates decrease across all non annuity policy types and age groups -5% 30 Mortality rates decrease across all annuity policy types and age groups -5% 20 Lapse and surrender rates decrease across all policy types and cohorts over the duration of their lives excluding paid-up policies -10% 77 Although the tables above demonstrate the impact of individual variable changes, in practice due to the correlation between certain variables change in one variable would normally be expected to have an impact on other assumptions.
It should also be noted that in some instances these sensitivities are non-linear.
29 Other Assets Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Reinsurance assets Note 30 1,396 963 Group relief recoverable 170 380 Other assets 3,455 6,505 15 15 4,851 7,468 185 395 89 90 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 30 Insurance Contract Liabilities 2008 2007 Reinsurance Reinsurance Gross assets Net of Gross assets Net of liabilities Note 29 reinsurance liabilities Note 29 reinsurance m m m m m m Long term insurance contract liabilities Insurance contracts within the with-pro t funds 5,394 5,394 5,640 5,640 Insurance contracts within the non-pro t funds 24,610 1,387 23,223 20,274 956 19,318 30,004 1,387 28,617 25,914 956 24,958 General insurance contract liabilities Provision for unearned premiums 488 5 483 652 7 645 Claims provisions including claims incurred but not reported IBNR 220 4 216 298 298 708 9 699 950 7 943 Total insurance contract liabilities 30,712 1,396 29,316 26,864 963 25,901 The change in insurance contract liabilities net of reinsurance is analysed as follows: 2008 2007 m m At 1 January 25,901 24,103 Disposal of subsidiary undertakings 27 Transfer from investment contracts to long term insurance contracts Note 28 6,203 Changes in assumptions 61 279 Reduction in additions to insurance liabilities arising 3,279 1,895 Exchange translation 457 182 At 31 December 29,316 25,901 Long term insurance contract liabilities The Group principally writes the following long term contracts which contain insurance risk.
The contracts also contain financial risk.
The principal risks associated with each type of contract are described below.
Life assurance The policyholder is insured against death or permanent disability usually for predetermined amounts principally mortality and disability risk.
Annuity products The policyholder is entitled to payments for the duration of their life and is therefore insured for living longer than expected principally longevity and market risk.
With-pro t business The primary purpose of these products is to provide a long term smoothed investment vehicle to the policyholder, protecting them against short term market uctuations.
The policyholder is also usually insured against death and the policy may carry an annuity option at maturity principally market risk.
Unit-linked business The primary purpose of these products is to provide an investment vehicle but where the policyholder is also insured against death principally market risk.
Additional information on the risk associated with the long term assurance business is set out on pages 28 to 30 of the Risk Management report.
The table below sets out the extent of the above exposures based on the carrying value of the liabilities: 2008 2007 Reinsurers Net Reinsurers Net Insurance share of insurance Insurance share of insurance contract contract contract contract contract contract liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities m m m m m m Life assurance 636 65 571 327 28 299 Annuity products 2,198 2,198 2,041 2,041 With-pro t 5,394 5,394 5,640 5,640 Unit-linked 21,759 1,314 20,445 17,893 921 16,972 Other 17 8 9 13 7 6 Total 30,004 1,387 28,617 25,914 956 24,958 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 91 30 Insurance Contract Liabilities continued Guarantees and options The products with the most signi cant guarantees and options are certain with-pro t bonds which allow surrenders at speci ed dates without market value adjustments being applied and withdrawals to be taken without penalty: certain contracts which provide guaranteed minimum levels of return on policyholder contributions made to the contract: and certain pension contracts containing an option that allows the policyholder to take an annuity bene t at any time between their 60th and 75th birthday on annuity rates that were guaranteed at the outset of the contract.
There are no other material guarantees and options within the long term assurance business other than those discussed above.
For contracts where there are guarantees and options the most signi cant factor in determining the cost of the guarantees and options other than economic conditions in which the option or guarantee has value is the actual take up rate of options.
The most signi cant factor in determining take up rates is customer behaviour which is in uenced by a number of factors including the value of the contract, and the financial circumstances of the individuals.
The financial impact is dependent on the value of corresponding investments, interest rates and longevity at the time of the claim.
In order to measure the risk of these guarantees, the Group makes use of statistical modelling techniques where appropriate to determine the possible and most likely range of outcomes.
To help mitigate the risks, the Group makes use of matching techniques in order to hedge part of the expected cash ows arising under the guarantees in these contracts with financial instruments.
Experience and valuation rates of interest assumptions The assumptions used in the measurement of insurance liabilities are determined by the board of directors.
Material judgement is required in the choice of assumptions relating to insurance contracts.
The assumptions that have the greatest effect on the measurement of the insurance contract liabilities are set out by type of business below.
Mortality and longevity rates The process used to determine the Groups mortality and longevity assumptions starts with an internal investigation of the Groups actual mortality experience over the last five years.
This investigation is updated regularly.
The results of this investigation are considered in the context of a number of factors including the credibility of the results which will be affected by the volume of data available, any exceptional events that have occurred during the period being considered, any known or expected trends in underlying data and relevant published market data.
The rates derived from the Groups experience are adjusted in the light of the factors mentioned above to derive a set of best estimate rates.
No deliberate margins for prudence are introduced as part of this process.
These best estimate assumptions will be used in the projection of best estimate cash ows, such as the measurement of the value of in-force long term assurance business.
For insurance contracts within the non-pro t funds, the liabilities are assessed on a prudent basis and hence the rates used need to include a margin for adverse deviation that will increase liabilities and provide some protection from the risk that actual experience is worse than the best estimate assumptions.
For insurance contracts within the with-pro t fund, the liabilities are required to be determined using the realistic or best estimate assumptions.
The mortality tables used to determine insurance contract liabilities are as follows: 2008 2007 Non-pro t policies Pension annuities Males 90% PMA92 mc 98% PMA92 mc 91 1.5% minimum improvement 1.5% minimum improvement Females 87% PMA92 mc 80% PFA92 75%mc 1% minimum improvement 1% minimum improvement Term assurances Males 33% - 138% TM92 24% 79% TM92 Females 33% - 94% TF92 26% 95% TF92 Unit-linked policies Life assurance and pensions 49.5% - 88% AM92 AF92 58% 143% AM92 AF92 With-pro t policies Life assurance and pensions 60.5% -88% AM92 AF92 49% 132% AM92 AF92 For life assurance policies, increased mortality rates would lead to a larger number of claims and claims occurring sooner than anticipated, increasing the expenditure and reducing pro ts.
For annuity contracts, the opposite is true.
92 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 30 Insurance Contract Liabilities continued Lapse and surrender rates persistency A lapse occurs when the termination of a contract results from the non-payment of premiums due under that contract.
A surrender occurs when a policyholder decides to voluntarily terminate their contract.
Paid-up and partial surrender are additional forms of lapse and surrender.
The process used to determine contract lapse and surrender rates is similar to that used to determine mortality and longevity rates.
The previous experience of the Group from 2005 to 2007 is analysed using statistical techniques.
As the experience can vary considerably between different product types and for contracts which have been in force for different periods, the internal analysis breaks the data down into broadly homogeneous groups for the purposes of this analysis.
This analysis is updated regularly.
The most recent experience is considered along with the results of previous analyses in order to determine a best estimate view of what persistency experience will be in the future.
In determining this best estimate view, a number of factors are considered including the credibility of the results which will be affected by the volume of data available, any exceptional events that have occurred during the period being considered, any known or expected trends in underlying data and relevant published market data.
For insurance contracts within the non-pro t funds, the liabilities are calculated assuming a prudent scenario.
Lapse and surrender rates vary according to both contract type and the length of time a contract has been in force.
No lapse and surrender rates have been presented because it is impractical to summarise the information in a meaningful manner.
The impact of an increase in lapse and surrender rates on contracts without guarantees and options would most likely result in a decrease in pro ts, as the contracts would no longer be in force to generate cash ows in the future.
However, for certain policies with valuable guarantees and options principally within the with-pro t fund, increased lapse and surrender rates may be bene cial to the Group as the policyholder loses the ability to exercise the potentially valuable guarantee or option when their policy terminates.
Valuation rate of interest The valuation rate of interest is the rate used to discount the projected cash ows on the contracts in order to determine the value of the liabilities as at the reporting date.
For insurance contracts within the non-pro t funds, the liabilities are calculated using an estimate of the prudent valuation rate of interest determined according to speci c rules set out by the Financial Services Authority.
For insurance contracts within the with-pro t fund, the liabilities are calculated using a realistic or market consistent valuation rate of interest based on the prevailing economic conditions at the time of the liability assessment without further adjustment.
The valuation rates of interest used are as follows: 2008 2007 Non-pro t policies Pension annuities 2.2% - 4.9% 4.1% 5.3% Term assurances 2.5% - 3.7% 3.5% 4.4% Unit-linked policies Life assurance 3.1% - 3.4% 3.3% 4.0% Pensions 2.4% - 3.4% 4.1% 4.9% In isolation, an increase in the valuation rate of interest decreases liabilities leading to an increase in pro ts or vice versa.
Discretionary participating bonus rates The distributions to policyholders with insurance and investment contracts with DPF are determined by the board of directors of subsidiaries based on local regulations and in line with arrangements in individual policy contracts.
For insurance and investment contracts with DPF in the with-pro t fund, the distributions to policyholders are governed by the funds Principles and Practices of Financial Management.
No material changes were made to the distribution policies for insurance and investment contracts with DPF during the year under review.
Changes in experience and valuation rate of interest assumptions The only signi cant changes to the assumptions used to calculate the value of policyholder liabilities at the year ended 31 December 2008 from those used at the year end 31 December 2007 were due to the change in valuation rates of interest which were updated to re ect prevailing economic conditions at the balance sheet date.
The valuation rate of interest assumptions were broadly matched by changes in the valuation of investment securities.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 93 30 Insurance Contract Liabilities continued General insurance contract liabilities The insurance businesss general insurance claim provisions including IBNR by policy type are set out in the table below: 2008 2007 Reinsurers share of Reinsurers Gross claims claims Net claims Gross claims share of claims Net claims provisions provisions provisions provisions provisions provisions m m m m m m Repayment insurance 113 4 109 94 94 Household insurance 104 104 192 192 Other insurance 3 3 12 12 Total 220 4 216 298 298 Assumptions For general insurance contracts, claims provisions comprising provisions for claims reported by policyholder and IBNR claims are established to cover the ultimate costs of settling the liabilities in respect of claims that have occurred and are estimated based on known facts and anticipated experience at the balance sheet date.
The provisions are re ned as part of a regular ongoing process as claims experience develops, certain claims are settled and further claims are reported.
Outstanding claims provisions are not discounted for the time value of money.
The measurement process primarily includes projection of future claims costs through a combination of actuarial and statistical projection techniques.
In certain cases, where there is a lack of reliable historical data on which to estimate claims development, relevant benchmarks of similar business are used in developing claims estimates.
The principal assumption underlying the estimates is the general insurance businesss past claims development experience.
This includes assumptions in respect of average claims costs, claims handling costs, claims in ation factors, and claim numbers for each accident year.
Judgement is used to assess the extent to which external factors such as judicial decisions and government legislation affect the estimates.
Additional information on the Groups general insurance risk is given on pages 28 to 30 of the Risk Management report.
General insurance claims development table The development of general insurance liabilities provides a measure of the Groups ability to estimate the ultimate value of claims.
The top half of the table below illustrates how the Groups estimate of total claims outstanding for each accident year has changed at successive year ends.
The bottom half of the table reconciles the cumulative claims to the net liability appearing in the balance sheet.
The accident year basis is considered the most appropriate for the business written by the Group.
Accident year 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Total m m m m m m m m m Estimate of ultimate claims costs: At end of accident year 62 77 85 177 328 363 482 324 One year later 50 56 62 158 278 316 391 Two years later 48 55 66 154 277 313 Three years later 48 55 66 155 274 Four years later 48 55 65 155 Five years later 48 55 65 Six years later 48 55 Seven years later 48 Current estimate of cumulative claims 48 55 65 155 274 313 391 324 1,625 93 Cumulative payments to date 48 55 65 153 272 305 365 146 1,409 Total net liability included in the balance sheet 2 2 8 26 178 216 94 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 31 Investment Contract Liabilities 2008 2007 m m Investment contract liabilities 29,057 40,387 Investment contract liabilities with a discretionary participating feature 6,161 7,192 35,218 47,579 Investment contracts related to collective investment schemes 4,264 5,249 Total investment contract liabilities 39,482 52,828 32 Unallocated Surplus 2008 2007 m m At 1 January 1,493 1,543 Change in the year 942 50 At 31 December 551 1,493 The nature of certain insurance and investment contracts with DPF within the with-pro t fund is such that the allocation of the surplus assets between the policyholder and the Group has not been determined at the end of the accounting period.
The unallocated surplus comprises these surplus assets and is deemed to be a liability until allocation to the appropriate party has been determined.
In accordance with the requirements of FRS 27, the best estimate of the Groups share of future bonuses has been recognised as part of the unallocated surplus.
Sensitivities The table below indicates the stand alone impact of changes to certain key variables that have the greatest impact on the Groups with-pro t fund.
These are shown with reference to the unallocated surplus and the underlying with-pro t liabilities: 2008 Increase Impact on Change in decrease in unallocated variable liabilities surplus m m Interest rates increase into perpetuity 25 bps 117 Equity property market values fall and thereafter increase based on the long term view of the risk free rate -10% 312 96 Lapse and surrender rates decrease across all policy types and cohorts excluding paid-up policies -10% 36 36 2007 Increase Impact on Change in decrease in unallocated variable liabilities surplus m m Interest rates increase into perpetuity 25bps 94 29 Equity property market values fall and thereafter increase based on the long term view of the risk free rate -10% 652 257 Lapse and surrender rates decrease across all policy types and cohorts excluding paid-up policies -10% 16 16 Although the tables above demonstrate the impact of individual variable changes, in practice due to the correlation between certain variables a change in one variable would normally be expected to have an impact on other assumptions.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 95 33 Retirement Bene t Obligations The Group operates fide ned bene t and fide ned contribution pension schemes, as well as fide ned bene t post retirement medical and concessionary mortgage plans.
The charge for the year in respect of the pension schemes is 272m 2007 206m comprising 167m 2007 141m for fide ned bene t schemes, 101m 2007 60m for fide ned contribution schemes and 4m 2007 5m for other post retirement bene ts.
The Groups IAS 19 pension surplus across all fide ned bene t post employment plans as at 31 December 2008 comprises an asset of 629m and a fide cit of 152m gross of deferred tax giving a net surplus of 477m.
As at 31 December 2007, the IAS 19 position was a fide cit of 347m gross of deferred tax.
fide ned contribution post employment bene t plans The principal Group fide ned contribution plan is the HBOS Group Money Purchase Scheme.
It is funded by contributions from colleagues and the Group.
New colleagues are automatically enrolled in the scheme unless they opt out.
The level of Group contributions for the majority of members who contribute at the core rate of 4% is 6%.
In addition, if members wish to pay more, then the Group will also make further contributions in respect of the members first 4% of additional contributions.
For the majority of members, stepping their contribution rate to 8% will result in the Group stepping up its rate to 12%.
Higher levels of Group contributions are available to more senior colleagues.
Alternatively, members may elect to pay a lower contribution of 2% and receive Group contributions at 3%.
These were the levels of contributions for colleagues and Group for the majority of the existing members at April 2006 and other colleagues who were automatically enrolled into the plan.
The respective default rates for colleague and Group contributions have been increased to 3% and 4.5% in 2007 and was increased to 4% and 6% in 2008.
The expense of all the Group fide ned contribution plans for the year ended 31 December 2008 was 101m 2007 60m.
fide ned bene t post employment bene t plans The Group provides several fide ned bene t plans.
The main scheme is the HBOS Final Salary Pension Scheme HBOS FSPS which is a closed funded scheme.
It was formed in July 2006 through the merger of the Groups four main UK fide ned bene t schemes.
Accordingly disclosures prior to the date of the merger have been re-analysed to show pro forma comparatives for the HBOS FSPS based on the comparative disclosures of the four legacy schemes.
Separate disclosures for all other fide ned bene t pension plans within the Group are made under the heading Other Schemes.
These contain a mixture of funded and unfunded schemes and arrangements.
Separate disclosures are also made on a combined basis for the unfunded post retirement medical plans and concessionary mortgage plans under the heading Other Post Retirement Bene ts.
The Company sponsors the HBOS FSPS Equitable Life Assurance Scheme closed fund scheme, the unfunded scheme as included within Other Schemes and the post retirement medical and mortgage schemes as included within Other Post Retirement Bene ts.
The net assets of these schemes are 576m, 53m, 49 m and 55 m respectively totalling 525m 2007 263 m, 44 m and 53 m respectively totalling 360 m. Accordingly the disclosures relating to the HBOS FSPS and Other Post Retirement Bene ts are also those of the Company.
The unfunded scheme in the Company had a liability of 44m at the start of the year 2007 44m and 49m at the year end 2007 44m.
The pension expense relating to the unfunded scheme in the Company is 3m 2007 2m and is comprised of an interest cost and current service cost of 3m and nil respectively 2007 2m and nil.
In addition bene ts paid by the Company in respect of the unfunded scheme during the year amounted to 2m 2007 2m.
The unfunded pension liabilities have been secured by assets held by the Group.
These assets, comprising listed investment securities held at a value of 51m at 31 December 2008 2007 56m, are included in the Groups investment securities and would only be available to members in the event of certain contingencies, such as the failure to pay bene ts.
The assets of the Groups funded schemes are held in separate trustee-administered funds, which are independent of the Groups own assets, to meet the long term pension liabilities of past and present employees.
The trustees of the schemes are required to act with regard to the best interests of the schemes bene ciaries and a number of trustees are nominated or elected by the members of the schemes.
The trustees, in consultation with the Group, set the schemes investment strategies and, with the agreement of the Group, set the level of contributions to be made to the schemes.
95 The liabilities of the fide ned bene t schemes are measured by discounting the estimated future cash ows to be paid out by the schemes using the projected unit method.
This method is an accrued bene t valuation technique that makes allowances for projected earnings.
The Group estimates the average duration of the liabilities of the fide ned bene t scheme to be 23 years.
Following its formation in 2006, the first funding valuation and the most recent published valuation of the HBOS FSPS was carried out as at 31 December 2006 by an independent actuary.
The financial assumptions adopted within this valuation were based upon the economic conditions prevailing at the date of valuation.
This resulted in the Group adjusting the rate of regular contributions to around 23% of pensionable salaries with effect from July 2007.
From 1 June 2008 a salary sacri ce was introduced.
Under this arrangement all member contributions are instead paid by the Company, with a corresponding adjustment made to members net salaries.
This similarly applies to the fide ned contribution schemes noted above.
In the light of the fide cit of 95m under the assumptions agreed for the valuation, the Company also agreed to make annual fide cit contributions of 50m per annum for each of the years 2007 to 2010 inclusive.
The Company has paid 100m in respect of the first two years contribution during 2007.
As such no fide cit contributions were paid in 2008.
The level of contributions payable to the scheme is expected to be reviewed again following completion of the next scheduled funding valuation, due as at 31 December 2009.
The Company operates a post retirement medical plan for certain former employees and provides post retirement mortgage bene ts to both current and retired employees.
96 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 33 Retirement Bene t Obligations continued On 1 January 2008, the Clerical Medical International Pension Scheme, which is a funded fide ned bene t plan, included within Other Schemes was merged with the HBOS FSPS.
In anticipation of this, the Company paid a fide cit reduction contribution of 5m during 2007 as part of the merger agreement.
The Groups net post retirement bene t liabilities in respect of its fide ned bene t plans are analysed as follows: 2008 2007 Other Post Other Post HBOS Other Retirement HBOS Other Retirement FSPS Schemes Bene ts Total FSPS Schemes Bene ts Total m m m m m m m m fide ned bene t obligations 6,195 514 55 6,764 7,072 551 53 7,676 Fair value of assets 6,771 470 7,241 6,809 520 7,329 1 Net asset liabilities 576 44 55 477 263 31 53 347 Movements in the net post retirement bene t liabilities were as follows: At 1 January 263 31 53 347 778 79 55 912 Pension expense 157 10 4 171 131 10 5 146 Group contributions 191 30 221 250 42 292 Bene ts paid directly by the Group 2 2 4 1 2 3 Actuarial gains losses 805 35 770 396 15 5 416 At 31 December 576 44 55 477 263 31 53 347 Movements in the fide ned bene t obligations were as follows: At 1 January 7,072 551 53 7,676 6,952 549 55 7,556 Effect of scheme merger 26 26 Current service cost 198 13 1 212 210 12 2 224 Plan participant contributions 11 1 12 23 1 24 Interest cost 404 31 3 438 358 28 3 389 Bene ts paid 208 15 223 165 19 184 Bene ts paid directly by the Group 2 2 4 1 2 3 Net actuarial gains losses 1,320 67 1,387 311 24 5 340 Past service cost 12 2 14 5 1 6 Settlement curtailment 9 9 4 4 Foreign exchange translation 35 35 8 8 At 31 December 6,195 514 55 6,764 7,072 551 53 7,676 Movements in the fair value of plan assets were as follows: At 1 January 6,809 520 7,329 6,174 470 6,644 Effect of scheme merger 21 21 Actual return on plan assets 53 65 118 527 24 551 Group contributions 191 30 221 250 42 292 Plan participant contributions 11 1 12 23 1 24 Bene ts paid 208 15 223 165 19 184 Settlement curtailment 13 13 6 6 Foreign exchange translation 33 33 8 8 At 31 December 6,771 470 7,241 6,809 520 7,329 The fair value of plan assets at 31 December comprise the following: Equity instruments 2,814 234 3,048 3,940 260 4,200 Bonds 3,779 137 3,916 2,478 129 2,607 With-pro t investments 15 15 50 50 Property 178 7 185 298 8 306 Other assets 77 77 93 73 166 Total value of assets 6,771 470 7,241 6,809 520 7,329 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 97 33 Retirement Bene t Obligations continued The expense recognised in the income statement for the year ending 31 December comprises: 2008 2007 Other Post Other Post HBOS Other Retirement HBOS Other Retirement FSPS Schemes Bene ts Total FSPS Schemes Bene ts Total m m m m m m m m Current service cost 198 13 1 212 210 12 2 224 Interest cost 404 31 3 438 358 28 3 389 Expected return on assets 462 35 497 442 33 475 Settlement curtailment 4 4 2 2 Past service cost 12 2 14 5 1 6 Effect of scheme merger 5 5 Total expense 157 10 4 171 131 10 5 146 The actuarial gains losses recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense for the year ending 31 December comprises: 2008 2007 Other Post Other Post HBOS Other Retirement HBOS Other Retirement FSPS Schemes Bene ts Total FSPS Schemes Bene ts Total m m m m m m m m Actuarial gain loss on plan assets 515 100 615 85 9 76 Experience loss gain on plan liabilities 22 3 25 91 4 1 94 Gain loss from change in assumptions 1,320 87 3 1,410 402 28 4 434 Total actuarial gains losses 805 35 770 396 15 5 416 The Groups policy for recognising actuarial gains and losses is to take them directly to reserves in the period in which they arise.
A gain of 568m 2007 gain of 312m net of tax was recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense in the year.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense at 31 December 2008 amounts to a gain of 744m 2007 a gain of 176m net of tax.
The expected and actual returns on plan assets for the HBOS FSPS and other schemes is as follows: 2008 2007 HBOS Other HBOS Other FSPS Schemes Total FSPS Schemes Total m m m m m m Expected return on plan assets 462 35 497 442 33 475 Actuarial gain loss on plan assets 515 100 615 85 9 76 Actual return on plan assets 53 65 118 527 24 551 97 98 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 33 Retirement Bene t Obligations continued The history of experience adjustments for the HBOS FSPS and other schemes is as follows: 2008 2007 HBOS Other HBOS Other FSPS Schemes Total FSPS Schemes Total m m m m m m fide ned bene t obligations 6,195 514 6,709 7,072 551 7,623 Fair value of plan assets 6,771 470 7,241 6,809 520 7,329 Net assets liabilities 576 44 532 263 31 294 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities: Loss gain m 22 22 91 4 95 Percentage of plan liabilities % 5 1 1 1 1 Experience adjustments on plan assets: Gain loss m 515 100 615 85 9 76 Percentage of plan assets % 8 21 8 1 2 1 2006 2005 HBOS Other HBOS Other FSPS Schemes Total FSPS Schemes Total m m m m m m fide ned bene t obligations 6,952 549 7,501 6,635 500 7,135 Fair value of plan assets 6,174 470 6,644 4,934 409 5,343 Net liabilities 778 79 857 1,701 91 1,792 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities: Loss Gain m 136 7 143 83 7 90 Percentage of plan liabilities % 2 1 2 1 1 1 Experience adjustments on plan assets: Gain m 149 25 174 581 10 591 Percentage of plan assets % 2 5 3 12 2 11 The mortality assumptions used in 2008 are unchanged from those adopted following the 31 December 2006 valuation of the FSPS.
For current and deferred pensioners table PNA00 projected to 2006 using the base level of improvements from the 92 series, with subsequent future improvements in line with the 92 series medium cohort projections have been used with a 10% loading to the female table reducing life expectancy.
This is to align it with actual experience for the schemes pensioners.
For active members table A92ULT multiplied by 70% has been used.
Summary of assumptions and membership data The following assumptions and data have been used in respect of the fide ned bene t pension schemes: HBOS FSPS Other Schemes 2009 2008 2007 2006 2009 2008 2007 2006 Actuarial assumptions at beginning of the year Discount rate % 6.25 5.70 5.15 4.85 5.7 5.70 5.15 4.85 RPI in ation rate 3.0 3.4 3.0 2.8 3.4 3.4 3.0 2.8 a Expected return on plan assets % 5.53 6.78 7.18 7.15 6.66 6.66 6.86 6.29 b Salary increases % 3.5 3.9 3.5 3.3 3.9 3.9 3.5 3.3 c Pension increases % 3.0 3.3 3.0 2.8 3.3 3.3 3.0 2.8 Life expectancy at age 60 years Retired members Males 26 26 26 23 26 26 26 23 Females 27 27 27 26 27 27 27 26 Non-retired members Males 27 27 27 24 27 27 27 24 Females 29 29 29 27 29 29 29 27 a The expected rate of return on plan assets shown above is a weighted average based on the current investment strategy.
Return seeking assets eg equities are assumed to return 7.55% pa, low risk matching assets predominantly gilts are assumed to return 3.85% pa, corporate bonds are assumed to return 6.25% pa, with pro ts funds are assumed to return 6.25% and property is assumed to return 6.5% pa. b In addition to the general assumed rate of salary increases, there is a separate assumed salary scale of increases due to promotions and increasing seniority worth about 0.5% in overall terms.
c The pension increase is on the excess over the Guaranteed Minimum Pension.
Pensions which are guaranteed to increase at a rate of at least 3% per annum have been assumed to increase at 3.25% per annum for the end of year calculations 3.60% per annum for 2007 and 3.40% per annum for 2006.
The expected company contributions for the year commencing 1 January 2009 total 274.5m 2008 215.9m.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 99 33 Retirement Bene t Obligations continued A summary of the membership data at the end of each year is as follows: HBOS FSPS Other Schemes 2008 2007 2006 2005 2008 2007 2006 2005 Active members Number 26,061 27,893 30,044 32,504 1,149 2,581 2,113 2,289 Covered annual payroll m 729 745 747 764 67 106 82 78 Average age 41 42 41 41 45 43 44 43 Average length of service 15 15 14 13 12 11 11 12 Deferred members Number 37,037 35,869 35,167 32,844 1,996 2,557 2,019 1,969 Average age 45 42 42 44 45 44 47 44 Retired members Number 15,909 14,460 13,866 12,932 684 675 677 644 Total annual pensions m 144 129 120 112 13 18 10 9 Average age 65 64 63 64 64 63 64 65 The membership data above re ects the transfer of Clerical Medical International Scheme into the HBOS FSPS.
The principal assumptions used in the calculation of the other post retirement bene ts are the discount rate, which is the same as that used for the pension schemes and the medical cost trend rate which has been assumed to be the same as the discount rate.
Sensitivity analysis for each of the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities, showing the increase in fide ned bene t obligations at 31 December 2008, is set out below: Factor HBOS FSPS Other Schemes Change in assumption Increase 2008 Increase 2007 Increase 2008 Increase 2007 Discount rate decrease 0.1% 2.3% 2.3% 2.2% 2.2% Rate of in ation increase 0.1% 2.3% 2.3% 2.2% 2.2% Rate of salary growth increase 0.1% 0.4% 0.5% 0.4% 0.4% Life expectancy at age 60 increase by 1 year 2.7% 2.7% 2.5% 2.5% 34 Deferred Tax The statutory position re ects the deferred tax assets and liabilities as disclosed in the consolidated balance sheet and takes account of the inability to offset assets and liabilities where there is no legally enforceable right of offset.
The tax disclosure of deferred tax assets and liabilities tie to the amounts outlined in the table below which splits the deferred tax assets and liabilities by type.
2008 2007 Statutory Position m m Deferred tax liabilities 227 2,600 Deferred tax asset 2,556 70 Net deferred tax asset liability 2,329 2,530 2008 2007 Tax Disclosure m m Deferred tax liabilities 1,608 2,945 99 Deferred tax asset 3,937 415 Net deferred tax asset liability 2,329 2,530 At 31 December 2008 a deferred tax liability of 255m 2007 251m relating to investments in subsidiaries has not been recognised because the Company controls whether or not the liability will be incurred and it is satis ed that it will not be incurred in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax bene t through future taxable pro ts is probable.
Deferred tax assets of 92m 2007 nil have not been recognised in respect of unrealised capital losses carried forward as there are no predicted future capital pro ts.
Capital losses can be carried forward inde nitely.
In addition deferred tax assets of 69m 2007 62m have not been recognised in respect of Eligible Unrelieved Foreign tax EUFT carried forward as there are no predicted future taxable pro ts against which the unrelieved foreign tax credits can be utilised.
EUFT can be carried forward inde nitely.
100 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 34 Deferred Tax continued As a result of the Finance Act 2007, the main UK corporation tax rate reduced from 30% to 28% in April 2008.
UK deferred tax balances that are not expected to have been realised by April 2008 have been restated at the rate of 28%.
In addition, the German corporation tax rate reduced from 25% to 15% in January 2008.
The movement in the net position is as follows: 2008 2007 m m At 1 January 2,530 2,591 Credit charge to income for the year Note 13 2,964 199 Credit to equity for the year Note 13 2,089 86 Disposals 41 Changes in rates of corporation tax recognised in income Note 13 178 Changes in rates of corporation tax recognised in equity Note 13 1 Other movements 153 3 At 31 December 2,329 2,530 Analysed as follows: 2008 Available Long term Effective Capital for sale Employee assurance interest allowances investments bene ts business rate Other Total Deferred tax liabilities m m m m m m m At 1 January 2008 1,060 15 1,610 98 162 2,945 Credit to income for the year 518 78 1,012 12 62 1,682 Credit charge to equity for the year 15 202 2 189 Disposals 3 3 6 Other movements 72 20 70 162 At 31 December 2008 611 144 668 86 99 1,608 Available 2008 for sale Cash ow Employee Trading investments hedges bene ts Provisions Other losses c fwd Total Deferred tax assets m m m m m m m At 1 January 2008 34 98 168 115 415 Charge credit to income for the year 975 98 348 494 1,513 1,282 Credit to equity for the year 1,902 376 2,278 Disposals 47 47 Other movements 3 9 2 1 9 At 31 December 2008 924 410 478 611 1,514 3,937 Deferred tax assets in respect of employee bene ts primarily relate to retirement bene t plans.
Deferred tax assets relating to share based compensation are included in other.
In the Company there is a deferred tax liability of 161m 2007 asset 85m.
The liability is primarily in respect of the post retirement asset of the Company.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 101 34 Deferred Tax continued 2007 Available Long term Effective Capital for sale Cash ow assurance interest allowances investments hedges business rate Other Total Deferred tax liabilities m m m m m m m At 1 January 2007 1,112 96 182 1,738 131 90 3,349 Charge credit to income for the year 31 9 44 29 88 37 Credit charge to equity for the year 65 182 5 1 243 Changes in rates of corporation tax recognised in income 76 101 7 12 196 Changes in rates of corporation tax recognised in equity 7 7 Other movements 7 12 3 3 5 At 31 December 2007 1,060 15 1,610 98 162 2,945 Cash ow Employee 2007 hedges bene ts Provisions Other Total Deferred tax assets m m m m m At 1 January 2007 284 213 261 758 Charge to income for the year 46 36 80 162 Credit charge to equity for the year 37 130 64 157 Changes in rates of corporation tax recognised in income 1 9 8 18 Changes in rates of corporation tax recognised in equity 3 5 8 Other movements 4 6 2 At 31 December 2007 34 98 168 115 415 35 Other Liabilities Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Unclaimed shares 150 151 150 151 Other liabilities 4,959 4,921 146 53 5,109 5,072 296 204 Unclaimed shares comprise the net sale proceeds of certain Halifax Group Limited formerly Halifax Group plc ordinary shares which, following the Halifax Group restructuring which took effect on 1 June 1999, represented Halifax plc ordinary shares.
These shares were issued to meet claims for Halifax plc ordinary shares from qualifying members of Halifax Building Society and others following the transfer of business from Halifax Building Society to Halifax plc in 1997.
This liability also includes the related unclaimed dividends up to the date of sale and the unclaimed capital payments arising from the Halifax Group restructuring in 1999.
These amounts are being held on behalf of the persons who would have been entitled to claim the shares before they were sold.
Amounts representing the sale proceeds, together with the unclaimed capital payments, can be claimed during a period of nine years from the date of sale 30 August 2001 after which time they will be forfeited.
Amounts representing the related unclaimed dividends can be claimed during the period of twelve years from the date of the resolution for payment of each dividend, after which time they will be forfeited.
Following an internal reorganisation on 1 July 2002, responsibility for these balances was assumed by the Company.
36 Provisions Regulatory Other 101 provisions provisions Total m m m At 1 January 2008 106 69 175 Exchange translation 3 3 Charge to administrative expenses 200 31 231 Utilised in year 10 52 62 At 31 December 2008 296 51 347 The Group is an authorised institution and operates in the UK or overseas within the regulatory framework established in the UK by the Financial Services Authority or overseas by local regulatory bodies.
As a result of this, regulatory provisions are established when a legal or constructive obligation exists as a result of a past event where it is probable that an out ow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made.
Regulatory provisions include the following: 102 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 36 Provisions continued i. the estimated cost of making redress payments to customers in respect of past product sales where sales processes have been fide cient or where fees and premiums have been overcharged: and ii.
the costs estimated by management for the Financial Services Compensation Scheme management expense levy against deposit taking rms to fund the UK compensation scheme for customers of authorised financial services rms that are unable to pay claims made against them.
Further details are given below.
In addition, other provisions include property-related costs in respect of surplus leased space that amounted to 39m 2007 27m at the year end, provisions for long term and annual leave, provisions in respect of legal liabilities and for obligations under reward programmes.
The timing of cash out ows for regulatory and other provisions can be uncertain and depend on a number of variables outwith the control of the Group.
It is estimated that 191m 2007 35m of the outstanding provisions will be settled within the next year.
Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS is the UKs statutory compensation scheme for customers of authorised financial services rms that are unable to pay claims made against them.
Bank of Scotland plc, as an authorised rm, is obliged to pay levies to the FSCS as part of its funding arrangements, as explained below.
The FSCS raises levies against rms authorised by the Financial Services Authority FSA in respect of its management expenses and compensation costs.
Under a new funding system introduced on 1 April 2008, the levies are split into five broad classes, one of which is protected deposits.
Each deposit-taking rm contributes an amount in respect of these costs, which is proportionate to their share of the protected deposits for the relevant year.
The levies are subject to the maximum thresholds determined by the FSA.
Since October 2008, the FSCS has contributed to the costs of transferring, and or paid compensation to, the customers of certain failed rms including Bradford & Bingley plc, Kaupthing Singer & Friedlander Limited, Heritable Bank plc, Landsbankis Icesave and London Scottish Bank plc.
As a result, the FSCS is now a creditor of these rms.
To fund these activities, the FSCS has obtained interest-only finance from HM Treasury of 19.7 billion as at 16 December 2008, which is due to be re nanced in 2011.
The FSCS expects the amounts owed to it by failed rms to be reduced as assets are realised or other payments are made to creditors.
In turn, this will enable the FSCS to reduce its borrowings from HM Treasury.
In the meantime, the FSCS will need to meet its anticipated obligations in respect of interest payments on its borrowings through management expenses levies on authorised rms.
The FSA, on behalf of the FSCS, has issued guidance regarding the levies to be made by the FSCS in 2009.
This guidance indicates that the FSCS is expected to raise the next levy before 31 March 2009 and that the annual limit on the FSCS management expenses levy for 2008 09 has been set at 1 billion.
HBOS has accrued a charge of 200m in respect of forecast management expenses levies for the levy years 2008 09 and 2009 10 that are based upon its share of protected deposits as at 31st December 2007 and 2008 respectively.
When the existing borrowing with HM Treasury is re nanced in 2011, a repayment schedule for the outstanding principal will be agreed between HM Treasury and the FSCS, after which the FSCS will raise compensation costs levies against rms in respect of these amounts.
These levies could be signi cant.
However, no provision has been made for these costs to date as their amount is unknown and is not expected to be quanti able until 2011 at the earliest.
37 Debt Securities in Issue 2008 2007 At fair At fair value through At value through At the income amortised the income amortised statement cost Total statement cost Total m m m m m m Certi cates of deposit 50,956 50,956 63,680 63,680 MTNs issued 48,630 48,630 29,199 29,199 Covered bonds 34,022 34,022 39,184 39,184 Commercial paper 12,132 12,132 28,648 28,648 Securitisation 42,708 42,708 1,842 43,967 45,809 188,448 188,448 1,842 204,678 206,520 Included within commercial paper above is 2,979m 2007 11,954m issued by the Grampian conduit and nil 2007 137m issued by the Landale conduit.
The additional amount contractually payable on maturity of the debt securities held at fair value through the income statement at 31 December 2007 was 294m.
During 2007, 0.1m movement in the fair value of these liabilities was attributable to changes in credit spread risk.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 103 38 Other Borrowed Funds Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Preferred securities 3,969 4,973 Preference shares 2,614 1,571 2,614 1,571 Subordinated liabilities Dated 15,078 10,964 10,927 7,253 Undated 8,458 6,745 8,694 6,679 30,119 24,253 22,235 15,503 Group 2008 2007 Preferred securities m m US$750m 6.071% Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities of US$1,000 each 513 374 US$1,000m 6.85% Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities of US$1,000 each 684 499 600m 6.461% Guaranteed Non-voting Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities Series A of 1,000 each 600 600 250m 8.117% Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities Series 1 of 1,000 each Class A 250 250 150m 7.754% Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities Series 2 of 1,000 each Class B 150 150 245m 7.881% Guaranteed Non-voting Non-cumulative Preferred Securities 245 245 415m Fixed to Floating Rate Guaranteed Non-voting Non-cumulative Preferred Securities 396 305 750m 4.939% Non-voting Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities 716 551 2bn 6.0064 6.0895% Fixed Rate Perpetual Securities 2,000 Other Preferred Securities 4 Unamortised issue costs 22 24 Accrued interest 32 36 Fair value hedge adjustments 405 17 3,969 4,973 During 2007 Fortrose Investments Ltd, a subsidiary, issued 2,000m of Fixed Rate Perpetual Securities and other subsidiaries issued Preferred Securities totalling 4m, all of which were redeemed during 2008.
Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 Preference shares m m m m 300m 9 1 4% Non-cumulative Irredeemable 1 preference shares 300 300 300 300 100m 9 3 4% Non-cumulative Irredeemable 1 preference shares 100 100 100 100 US$750m 6.413% Fixed-to-Floating Rate US$1 series A preference shares 513 374 513 374 US$750m 5.92% Fixed-to-Floating Rate US$1 series B preference shares 513 374 513 374 US$750m 6.657% Fixed-to-Floating rate US$1 preference shares 513 374 513 374 Unamortised issue costs 11 9 11 9 Accrued interest 32 27 32 27 Fair value hedge adjustments 654 31 654 31 2,614 1,571 2,614 1,571 The US$750m 6.413% Fixed-to-Floating Rate series A preference shares, the US$750m 5.92% Fixed-to-Floating Rate series B preference shares and the US$750m 6.657% Fixed-to-Floating Rate preference shares have been issued in the form of American 103 Depository Receipts.
On 21 May 2007 HBOS plc issued 7,500 American Depository Receipts representing US$750m 6.657% Fixed-to-Floating Rate US$1 preference shares.
These are Tier I non-innovative non-equity preference shares that were issued at $1,000 per share.
Dividends are payable semi-annually in arrears until 21 May 2037 at which date the Company has the option to redeem them.
Thereafter, dividends are payable at a rate of three month LIBOR plus 1.27% per annum payable quarterly in arrears and can be redeemed by the Company on any dividend payment date.
There have been no new issues during 2008.
On 15 January 2009 HBOS plc issued 3,000m HMT preference shares Note 57.
104 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 38 Other Borrowed Funds continued Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 Dated subordinated liabilities m m m m 650m 4.75% Subordinated Bonds 2009 621 477 500m 5.50% Instruments 2009 478 367 US$500m Notes 2010 342 249 US$150m Notes 2011 103 75 750m Subordinated Fixed Rate Notes 2012 716 551 12.8m 6.25% Instruments 2012 12 9 1,000m Subordinated Callable Fixed Floating Rate Instruments 2013 734 325m 6.125% Notes 2013 310 239 US$1,000m 4.25% Subordinated Guaranteed Notes 2013 684 499 684 499 JPY 60bn 0.55% Subordinated Callable Notes 2013 267 267 US$500m Subordinated Callable Notes 2014 342 249 342 249 250m 11% Subordinated Bonds 2014 250 250 1,000m 4.875% Subordinated Notes 2015 955 734 955 734 500m Callable Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016 478 367 478 367 500m Subordinated Notes 2016 478 367 478 367 US$750m Notes 2016 513 374 513 374 1,000m Subordinated Lower Tier II Notes 2017 955 734 955 734 US$1,000m Subordinated Callable Notes 2017 684 499 684 499 Aus$400m Subordinated Callable Floating Rate Instruments 2017 189 175 189 175 Aus$200m Subordinated Callable Fixed Floating Rate Instruments 2017 95 88 95 88 Can$500m Callable Fixed to Floating Rate Notes 2017 279 254 279 254 500m Lower Tier II Subordinated Notes 2017 500 500 500 500 150m 10.5% Subordinated Bonds 2018 150 150 US$2,000m 6.75% Subordinated Fixed Rate Notes 2018 1,368 1,368 250m 6.375% Instruments 2019 250 250 750m Callable Fixed to Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2019 716 551 716 551 500m 9.375% Subordinated Bonds 2021 500 500 160m Subordinated Fixed Rate Notes 2021 153 117 153 117 400m 6.45% Fixed Floating Subordinated Guaranteed Bonds 2023 382 294 175m 6.5% Subordinated Fixed Rate Notes 2023 167 167 750m Fixed Rate Step-up Subordinated Notes due 2030 716 551 716 551 US$750m 6.00% Subordinated Notes 2033 513 374 513 374 245m 7.881% Subordinated Extendable Maturity Notes 2048 245 245 415m Fixed to Floating Rate Subordinated Extendable Maturity Notes 2048 396 305 Unamortised premiums, discounts and issue costs 29 32 25 25 Accrued interest 261 221 108 79 Fair value hedge adjustments 947 70 418 51 15,078 10,964 10,927 7,253 During the year the following dated subordinated liabilities have been issued: On 8 April 2008 HBOS plc issued 175m Subordinated Lower Tier 2 Notes at par.
The notes pay interest at a rate of 6.5% plus Indexation HICP excluding tobacco for Eurozone annually in arrears until maturity on 8 April 2023.
On 21 May 2008 HBOS plc issued US$2bn Subordinated Lower Tier 2 Notes at an issue price of 99.334% of the principal amount.
The notes pay interest at a rate of 6.75% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears until maturity on 21 May 2018.
During 2007 the following dated subordinated liabilities were issued: On 20 March 2007 HBOS plc issued 1bn Subordinated Lower Tier 2 Notes at an issue price of 99.954% of the principal amount.
The notes pay interest at a rate of three month Euribor plus 0.2% per annum payable quarterly in arrears until 21 March 2012 at which time the interest rate will become three month Euribor plus 0.7% per annum payable quarterly in arrears until maturity in March 2017.
The Company has the option to redeem these notes on 21 March 2012 and quarterly thereafter.
On 27 April 2007 HBOS plc issued Aus$400m Subordinated Callable Floating Rate and Aus$200m Subordinated Callable Fixed Floating Rate Australian Domestic Instruments at issue prices of 100% and 99.423% of the principal amount respectively.
The xed rate notes pay interest at a rate of 6.75% and the oating rate notes at three month AUD-BBR-BSW plus 0.26% per annum payable quarterly in arrears until 1 May 2012 at which time both interest rates will become three month AUD-BBR-BSW plus 0.76% per annum payable quarterly in arrears until maturity in May 2017.
The Company has the option to redeem these notes on 1 May 2012 and quarterly thereafter.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 105 38 Other Borrowed Funds continued On 6 June 2007 HBOS plc issued US$1bn Subordinated Callable Notes at par.
The notes pay interest at a rate of three month US$ LIBOR plus 0.2% per annum payable quarterly in arrears until 6 September 2012 at which time the interest rate will become three month US$ LIBOR plus 0.7% per annum payable quarterly in arrears until maturity in September 2017.
The Company has the option to redeem these notes on 6 September 2012 and quarterly thereafter.
On 20 June 2007 HBOS plc issued Can$500m Callable Fixed to Floating Rate Notes at par.
The notes are subordinated and pay interest at a rate of 5.109% per annum payable quarterly in arrears until 20 June 2012 at which time the interest rate will become three month CAD-BA-CDOR plus 0.65% per annum payable quarterly in arrears until maturity in June 2017.
The Company has the option to redeem these notes on 20 June 2012 and quarterly thereafter.
On 15 October 2007 HBOS plc issued 160m Subordinated Fixed Rate Notes at par.
The notes pay interest at a rate of 5.374% per annum payable annually and mature on 30 June 2021.
On 17 October 2007 HBOS plc issued 500m Lower Tier 2 Subordinated Notes at an issue price of 99.9% of the principal amount.
The notes pay interest at a rate of 6.305% per annum payable semi-annually until 18 October 2012 at which time the interest rate will become three month LIBOR plus 1.2% per annum payable quarterly in arrears until maturity in October 2017.
The Company has the option to redeem these notes on 18 October 2012 and quarterly thereafter.
No repayment, for whatever reason, of dated subordinated liabilities prior to their stated maturity and no purchase by the relevant entity of its subordinated debt may be made without the consent of the Financial Services Authority.
On a winding up of the Company or subsidiary, the claims of the holders of dated loan capital shall be subordinated in right of payment to the claims of all depositors and creditors of the Company or subsidiary undertaking, other than creditors whose claims are expressed to rank pari passu with, or junior to, the claims of the holders of the dated loan capital.
105 106 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 38 Other Borrowed Funds continued Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 Undated subordinated liabilities m m m m 500m Cumulative Callable Fixed to Floating Rate Undated Subordinated Notes 500 500 500 500 US$750m 6.071% Undated Subordinated Fixed to Floating Rate Instruments 513 374 750m 4.875% Undated Fixed to Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 716 551 716 551 500m Floating Rate Undated Subordinated Notes 478 367 478 367 US$1,000m 5.375% Undated Fixed to Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 684 499 684 499 750m Undated Subordinated Fixed to Floating Notes 716 551 716 551 600m 5.75% Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes 600 600 600 600 US$1,000m 6.85% Undated Subordinated Notes 684 499 600m Fixed to Floating Rate Undated Subordinated Notes 600 600 500m Fixed to Floating Rate Undated Subordinated Notes 478 367 478 367 300m Perpetual Regulatory Tier One Securities 300 300 300m 7.5% Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes 300 300 300 300 JPY 42.5bn 3.50% Undated Subordinated Yen Step-up Notes 321 189 321 189 US$300m Reset Notes 200m Perpetual Notes 200 200 200m 7.375% Undated Subordinated Guaranteed Bonds 200 200 300m Floating Rate Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes 287 220 287 220 US$250m Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes 171 125 150m Instruments 150 150 JPY 17bn Instruments 128 76 100m Instruments 100 100 100m 12% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 100 100 100m 8.75% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 100 100 75m 13.625% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 75 75 JPY 9bn Instruments 40 50m 9.375% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 50 50 500m 5.75% Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes 500 500 500 500 750m 4.25% Perpetual Fixed Floating Rate Reset Subordinated Guaranteed Notes 716 551 750m 4.939% Undated Fixed to Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 716 551 750m Undated Perpetual Preferred Securities 750 Unamortised premiums, discounts and issue costs 46 71 44 48 Accrued interest 145 146 144 104 Fair value hedge adjustments 489 41 249 45 8,458 6,745 8,694 6,679 On 19 March 2008 HBOS plc issued 750m Undated Fixed to Floating Rate Subordinated Notes at an issue price of 99.25% of the principal amount to HBOS Capital Funding No.
The notes pay interest at a rate of 9.54% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears until 19 March 2018 at which time the interest rate will become 3 month LIBOR plus 6.75% per annum payable quarterly in arrears.
The company has the option to redeem these notes on 19 March 2018 and quarterly thereafter.
Upon consolidation this is eliminated and minority interest arises, as disclosed in Note 41.
No exercise of any redemption option or purchase by the relevant entity of any of the undated subordinated liabilities may be made without the consent of the Financial Services Authority.
On a winding up of the Company or subsidiary, the claims of the holders of undated loan capital shall be subordinated in right of payment to the claims of all depositors and creditors of the Company or subsidiary other than creditors whose claims are expressed to rank pari passu with or junior to the claims of the holders of the undated loan capital.
The undated loan capital is junior in point of subordination to the dated loan capital referred to above.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 107 39 Share Capital Ordinary Preference shares shares Total Allotted, called up and fully paid m m m At 1 January 2007 941 198 1,139 Issued under employee share schemes 5 5 Ordinary share buyback 13 13 At 31 December 2007 and 1 January 2008 933 198 1,131 Issued under employee share schemes 10 10 Rights Issue 375 375 Capitalisation Issue 34 34 At 31 December 2008 1,352 198 1,550 Authorised share capital On 29 April 2008 HBOS announced that it would make a rights issue of two new ordinary shares for every five ordinary shares held at a price of 275p per share.
On 26 June 2008 a General Meeting increased the authorised share capital of HBOS plc by 2,900m ordinary shares to 7,640m ordinary shares and approved the rights issue.
The rights issue was completed in July and raised 3,987m net of expenses of 137m.
On 12 December 2008 an Extraordinary General Meeting increased the authorised share capital of HBOS plc by a further 7,500m to 15,140m.
At 31 December 2008 the authorised share capital comprised: Ordinary shares 15,140m ordinary shares of 25 pence each 2007 4,740m Preference shares 198,065,600 6.475% non-cumulative preference shares of 1 each 2007 198,065,600 350,002 6.3673% xed to oating non-cumulative preference shares of 1 each 2007 350,000, 750,000 6.0884% non-cumulative preference shares of 1 each 2007 750,000, The terms of the following preference shares when issued are such that these shares are classi ed as other borrowed funds rather than as issued share capital.
2,597 million preference shares of 1 each 2007 2,597 million, 200 million 6 1 8% non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of 1 each 2007 200 million, 375 million 9 1 4% non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares of 1 each 2007 375 million, 125 million 9 3 4% non cumulative irredeemable preference shares of 1 each 2007 125 million, 250,000 8.117% non-cumulative perpetual preference shares class A of 10 each 2007 250,000, 150,000 7.754% non-cumulative perpetual preference shares class B of 10 each 2007 150,000, 3,000 million preference shares of 1 each 2007 3,000 million, 4,998 million preference shares of US$1 each 2007 4,998 million, 750,000 6.413% non-cumulative callable xed to oating rate preference shares series A of US$1 each 2007 750,000, 750,000 5.92% non-cumulative callable xed to oating rate preference shares series B of US$1 each 2007 750,000, 750,000 6.657% non-cumulative callable preference shares of US$1 each 2007 750,000, 1,000 million preference shares of Aus$1 each 2007 1,000 million, 1,000 million preference shares of Can$1 each 2007 1,000 million, 400 million preference shares of JPY 250 each 2007 nil, 3,000,000 12% xed to oating callable non-cumulative preference shares of 1 each 2007 nil.
Note 38 details the preference shares that have been issued and classi ed as other borrowed funds.
107 Issued share capital At 31 December 2008 the Companys issued ordinary share capital, excluding shares held in Treasury, amounted to 5,406,574,275 shares 2007 3,730,415,166.
The Companys issued preference share capital amounted to 199,165,602 2007 199,165,600.
HBOS plc completed the rights issue in July 2008 issuing 1,500m ordinary shares of 25p each and raising 3,987m net of expenses of 137m.
During the year HBOS plc used 2,589,000 shares previously purchased under the 2007 share buyback programme to satisfy employee share scheme demands.
During the year HBOS plc has bought no further ordinary shares 2007 50m at a total consideration of nil 2007 500m.
At 31 December 2008 no shares 2007 2,589,000 bought back remained in Treasury.
The Group operates a number of share option plans and savings related option plans for colleagues.
Details of these, including the impact of the rights issue, is given in Note 40.
On 15 January 2009 HBOS plc issued 7,482m ordinary shares under a placing with HM Treasury Note 57.
108 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 40 Share-based Payments As a result of the acquisition of the Group by Lloyds TSB on 16 January 2009, some of the share schemes vested in the period between 12 January 2009, and 16 January 2009.
For further details, see Note 57.
This note therefore re ects the position of the share schemes as at 31 December 2008.
Details of the accelerated vesting, together with the financial effects will be disclosed in the financial statements for 2009.
During the year ended 31 December 2008, the Group operated the following share-based payment arrangements, which were predominantly equity-settled: Sharesave plan Colleagues may enter into contracts through the sharesave schemes to save up to 250 per month for a xed term of 3, 5 or 7 years.
At the end of the savings period a tax-free bonus is added to the savings and colleagues have the option to acquire shares in the Group at a price equal to 80% of the share price agreed.
Share option plans The final award under the HBOS plan was made in 2004.
Under this plan options over shares at market value, with a face value equal to 20% of salary, were awarded to all colleagues with the exception of those of level 8 and above.
A separate option plan exists for St. Jamess Place, which awards options in respect of HBOS shares, and which continues to operate.
Free shares This was introduced in 2005 under the share incentive plan legislation as a replacement for the share option plan not including the St. Jamess Place plan.
In broad terms, it covers all colleagues and free shares up to a limit of 3,000 annually are awarded to each colleague.
Sharekicker plan This provides colleagues with the opportunity to purchase shares with a proportion of their annual net bonus.
For every two shares purchased a matching share is awarded after three years.
Performance sharekicker plan With effect from September 2008, the EPS sharekicker plan was renamed the Performance Sharekicker Plan.
The plan is open to colleagues of level 7 and above in relation to annual net bonuses and colleagues of level 8 and above in relation to net bonuses payable under the two-year incentive scheme.
This provides colleagues with the opportunity to purchase shares with a proportion of their annual net bonus.
For the 2006 and 2007 awards, matching shares awarded under this plan depends on EPS performance over the three year vesting period.
For the 2008 award, matching shares awarded under this plan depends on EPS performance in excess of the RPI and on operating cost performance over the three year vesting period.
Long term incentive plan For most senior colleagues, share grants of varying percentages of salaries are made and colleagues may receive up to 200% of the grant depending on the Groups annualised TSR compared to the annualised weighted average TSR of a basket of comparator companies, over a three year period.
See below for further detail.
Executive stock option plan The final award under this plan was in 2000.
Under this plan, options were granted at market value to certain colleagues.
The options vested upon satisfaction of a performance measure over a three year period.
Options are exercisable from the date the measure is satis ed until the tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
St. Jamess Place plans Various St. Jamess Place plc option and share plans are offered to some of its colleagues.
Insight Investment plan In 2007 Insight Investment Management Ltd converted an existing incentive scheme into a share-based payment arrangement, offering options and or shares to some of its colleagues.
Invista Real Estate plans Various share-based plans are offered to certain colleagues in Invista Real Estate Investment Management Holdings plc.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 109 40 Share-based Payments continued The table below summarises the share-based payment awards granted in 2008 and 2007: Performance Long term Sharesave Sharesave Share Free Sharekicker Sharekicker Long term Incentive Plan b d interim plan option plan shares plan plan incentive plan Insight Awards in 2008 Date of grant 2 October 28 March 27 February 5 S eptember 20 March 20 March 6 March 14 March Number granted c c pre rights issue 78,625,974 27,762,345 1,220,709 21,048,159 8,572,591 1,366,451 3,360,653 18,152,934 Number granted e post rights issue 78,625,974 27,960,647 1,229,428 21,048,159 8,707,637 1,387,977 3,413,594 18,438,902 Awards in 2007 Date of grant 30 March 1 March 7 August 23 March 23 March 15 March 18 December c c Number granted 4,614,933 620,957 8,372,685 4,535,816 722,340 2,163,888 7,082,532 Contractual life 3.5, 5.5 and 3.5, 5.5 and 7 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 5 years 7.5 years 7.5 years Vesting conditions 3.25, 5.25 and 3.17, 5.17 and 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 7.25 years 7.17 years service service service service and service and service vesting vesting achievement achievement a a period period of target of TSR target a Although the savings periods are three, five and seven years the vesting periods are slightly longer since savings commence after the grant date.
b The awards relate to the St. Jamess Place plan.
c These are the number of deferred shares purchased.
d Award of options include nil-priced options and options with an exercise price equal to the price of the Companys B ordinary shares based on the most recently approved annual valuation of the Insight business at the date of the grant.
If all options and shares outstanding under the Insight Investment Plan at 31 December 2008 vested on that date, 46.6 million HBOS shares would be required to meet this.
e The rights issue in July 2008 assumed a cashless takeup of the rights at a nil-paid rights price of 11.274p.
Movements in options Movements in options granted under the various equity participation plans mentioned above are as follows: 2008 2007 Weighted Weighted average average Number exercise Number exercise Sharesave plan of options price of options price Outstanding at 1 January 40,293,627 6.65 48,560,991 6.29 Granted during the year 106,388,319 2.95 4,614,933 8.44 Rights issue 264,059 Exercised during the year 5,903,580 5.52 9,626,924 5.52 Forfeited during the year 2,763,722 5.38 2,949,595 7.11 Expired during the year 2,536,600 5.88 305,778 6.08 Cancelled during the year 60,319,267 5.12 Outstanding at 31 December 75,422,836 2.80 40,293,627 6.65 Exercisable at 31 December 25,638 5.54 585,472 4.52 2008 2007 Weighted Weighted average average 109 Number exercise Number exercise Share option plans of options price of options price Outstanding at 1 January 20,782,033 7.26 35,860,579 7.13 Granted during the year 1,220,709 6.57 620,957 10.71 Rights issue 128,630 Exercised during the year 55,211 6.68 15,123,252 7.10 Forfeited during the year 2,688,778 7.28 576,251 7.20 Outstanding at 31 December 19,387,383 7.16 20,782,033 7.26 Exercisable at 31 December 17,079,383 7.01 19,211,979 7.05 110 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 40 Share-based Payments continued 2008 2007 Weighted Weighted average average Number exercise Number exercise Executive stock option plan of options price of options price Outstanding at 1 January 813,927 6.28 1,251,907 6.11 Rights issue 5,267 Exercised during the year 2,000 5.91 395,980 5.79 Forfeited during the year 202,731 5.94 42,000 5.87 Outstanding and exercisable at 31 December 614,463 6.34 813,927 6.28 For the sharesave plan, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 6.77.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2008 had exercise prices in the range of 2.20 to 8.38 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 4.6 years.
For the share option plans, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 6.66.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2008 had exercise prices in the range of 6.49 to 10.64 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.5 years.
For the executive stock option plan, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised in the year was 6.42.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2008 had exercise prices in the range of 5.35 to 7.07 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.5 years.
Financial assumptions underlying the calculation of fair value The fair value expense has been based on the fair value of the instruments granted, as calculated using appropriate pricing models.
The tables below shows the assumptions and models used to calculate the grant date fair value of awards in 2008 and 2007: Sharesave Sharesave Share option Free Sharekicker b interim plan plan shares plan Awards in 2008 d Fair value pence 84 76 152 282 163 Share price pence 170 540 657 282 446 Exercise price pence 220 508 657 a Expected volatility % p. a.
5.3 5.3 N A N A c Pricing model BlackBlackBinomial BlackScholes Scholes Lattice Scholes a Expected volatility is based on an analysis of both the Groups historical volatility over the twelve months preceding the date of each award and the volatility implied by the price of traded options as at the date of each award.
c As no performance conditions attach to these awards and dividends are reinvested, the fair value is the same as the face value of the awards.
d The fair value of Sharekicker awards re ects that a share is automatically awarded for every two held after three years.
e Dividends payable on the matching shares during the vesting period are not awarded to the recipient.
f Dividends payable on the shares during the vesting period are reinvested and so no dividend yield assumption is required.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 111 40 Share-based Payments continued Long term Long term Performance incentive Plan Incentive Plan sharekicker Long term Insight Insight plan incentive plan Nil - priced options Market value options Awards in 2008 Fair value pence 326 397 234 47 Share price pence 446 574 249 249 Exercise price pence Nil 249 a Expected volatility % p. a. N A N A 25 25 e f Expected dividends % p. a.
11.0 N A 2 2 Risk-free interest rate % p. a. N A N A 4.3 4.3 Awards in 2007 Fair value pence 947 756 233 72 Share price pence 1,062 1,017 214 214 Exercise price pence Nil 214 a Expected volatility % p. a. N A N A 25 25 e f Expected dividends % p. a.
3.9 N A 2 2 Risk-free interest rate % p. a. N A N A 4.4 4.4 Pricing model BlackMonte Carlo BlackBlackScholes Simulation Scholes Scholes a Expected volatility is based on an analysis of both the Groups historical volatility over the twelve months preceding the date of each award and the volatility implied by the price of traded options as at the date of each award.
Early exercise assumptions The following allowance has been made for the impact of early exercise once options have vested: Sharesave plan As the length of the exercise window is only six months all option holders are assumed to exercise halfway through the exercise window.
St. Jamess Place plan It is assumed that half of the option holders will exercise their options each year if the share price is at least 15% above the exercise price.
Allowance for performance conditions The long term incentive plan includes a market based performance condition based on the Groups total shareholder return relative to an index of comparator companies.
The impact of this performance condition has been modelled using Monte Carlo Simulation techniques, which involves running several thousands of simulations of future share price movements for both the Group and the comparator index.
For the purpose of these simulations it is assumed that the share price of the Group and the comparator index are 80% correlated 2007 award 60% and that the comparator index has volatility of 30% p. a. for the 2008 award 2007 award 20% p. a..
The performance condition is based on the Groups performance relative to the comparator index over a three year period commencing on 1 January each year.
The fair value calculations for the awards that were made in 2008 and 2007 therefore include an allowance for the actual performance of the Groups share price relative to the index over the period between 1 January and the award date.
In 2008 the weightings attached to certain comparators were amended with effect from 1 January 2008 and apply, from that date to 111 2005, 2006 and 2007 awards.
To better match the business pro le of the Group, the committee decided to amend the comparator companies and Northern Rock has dropped out of the comparator group due to government involvement.
Alliance and Leicester and Bradford & Bingley remain within the comparator group at their delisted prices.
This amendment also applies to all future awards.
The modi cations do not alter the fair values of any of the awards, nor make additional changes necessary.
Modi cations Changes to the Performance Sharekicker plan as described above had no material effect on the fair value costs of the plans.
The Rights Issue carried out by HBOS plc in July 2008 created a modi cation to all share plans.
This resulted in an adjustment to the awards made to colleagues but had no material effect on the fair value of the awards.
A new sharesave award was made in October 2008 which commenced on 1 January 2009.
On the making of the award, a signi cant number of monthly savings contracts held by employees in respect of previous sharesave awards were cancelled and new savings contracts commenced under the new sharesave award.
The new sharesave award has been identi ed as a replacement for previous sharesave awards in respect of the cancelled monthly savings contracts.
A modi cation approach has been taken, which has had no material effect on the fair value cost of the plans.
Charges have been made for employees commencing new contracts or increasing levels of savings.
112 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 40 Share-based Payments continued The period allowable for colleagues to exercise their share options for the 2003 and 2004 share option plans was extended from 3 years to 7 years in October 2008.
This resulted in an increase in fair value, chargeable directly to the income statement, of 0.6m.
Charge to the income statement 2008 2007 m m Expense arising from share-based payment transactions Note 8 Equity settled 155 138 Cash settled 1 1 156 139 Included within the charge for the year is 16m 2007 13m in respect of share-based arrangements within St. Jamess Place, 15m in respect of the Insight Investment plan 2007 4m and 3m in respect of Invista Real Estate plans 2007 3m.
In relation to the Groups share schemes, National Insurance and income tax costs are accrued by the Group.
The credit of 9m 2007 14m - debit are not included in the above table.
The liability for cash settled share-based payment plans at 31 December 2008 is 2m 2007 5m and is included in accruals and deferred income.
The Group uses trusts to purchase and hold its own shares as part of the share-based payment arrangements.
Details of these trusts and the shares held are given below.
2 Employee Share Ownership Trusts The No.
1 Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT 1 administers shares conditionally granted to Executive Directors and other executives under the HBOS Long Term Executive Bonus Plan.
The Trust also administers shares which have been conditionally granted to Executive Directors, other executives and employees under the HBOS plc Annual Bonus Plan and overseas operations of the HBOS plc Share Incentive Plan Free Shares.
2 Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT 2 administers shares to be awarded to Executive Directors, other executives and employees under the Groups Sharesave and share option plans, where options are not satis ed by the new issue of shares or from shares held by the HBOS QUEST.
Interest free loans have been provided by the Company to the Trusts to allow shares to be purchased in the market to satisfy these share grants.
At 31 December 2008 1.3 million HBOS plc ordinary shares 2007 0.5 million with a market value of 1m 2007 4m were held in ESOT 1 and 4.3 million HBOS plc ordinary shares 2007 7.5 million with a market value of 3m 2007 55m were held in ESOT 2.
The shares in the Trusts are included in the balance sheet of the Group at a net book value of nil 2007 nil.
Under the terms of the Trusts, dividends on these shares require to be waived.
HBOS plc Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust the HBOS QUEST The HBOS QUEST operates in conjunction with the HBOS Sharesave scheme and the former savings-related share schemes operated by Bank of Scotland and Halifax Group plc.
At 31 December 2008, the HBOS QUEST held no HBOS plc ordinary shares 2007 0.1 million - market value 1m.
In the prior year these shares are included in the balance sheet at nil value.
Under the terms of the Trust Deed, dividends on these shares require to be waived.
Free shares plan A number of trusts operate in conjunction with the Free Shares Plan which commenced in 2005. a The Share Incentive Plan trust operates in conjunction with free share awards made to employees throughout the Group, except to the extent noted below.
At 31 December 2008 this trust held 58.2 million HBOS plc ordinary shares 2007 19.6 million, with a market value of 40m 2007 144m.
These shares are included in the balance sheet at nil value.
b The Irish Pro t Share Trust holds free shares awarded to colleagues employed in Ireland.
At 31 December 2008 this trust held 1.2 million HBOS plc ordinary shares 2007 0.5 million, with a market value of 0.8m 2007 3m.
c The HBOS Australia Employee Share Trust holds free shares awarded to colleagues employed in Australia.
At 31 December 2008 this trust held 3.8 million shares 2007 1.7 million with a market value of 3m 2007 13m.
These ordinary shares are included in the balance sheet at nil value.
d ESOT 1 administers free shares awarded to colleagues based overseas.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 113 41 Shareholders Equity 3 Other reserves Cash ow Available Share Share hedge for sale Other Retained Minority 1 2 capital premium reserve reserve reserves earnings interests Total Group m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2008 1,131 2,997 85 313 552 17,567 385 22,234 Foreign exchange translation 23 210 187 Net actuarial gains from fide ned bene t plans 770 770 Tax thereon 202 202 Available for sale investments: Net change in fair value 8,173 8,173 Tax thereon 2,276 2,276 Realised gain on sale transferred to the income statement Note 3 24 24 Tax thereon 7 7 Impairment recognised in income statement Note 12b 1,270 1,270 Tax thereon 355 355 Cash ow hedges: Effective portion of changes in fair value taken to equity 3,895 3,895 Tax thereon 1,093 1,093 Losses transferred to income statement Note 3 2,561 2,561 Tax thereon 717 717 Loss pro t for the year 7,499 83 7,416 Total recognised income and expense 958 5,022 210 6,931 83 12,618 Dividends paid Note 42 1,286 55 1,341 Issue of new shares Note 39 419 3,712 750 4,881 MI acquisitions 242 242 MI disposals 110 110 Movement in own shares 88 88 Movements in share-based compensation reserve 118 118 Other 5 5 At 31 December 2008 1,550 6,709 1,043 5,335 762 9,556 1,300 13,499 1 The available for sale reserve is comprised of 5,285 m 2007 450 m in respect of treasury assets and 50 m 2007 137m in respect of corporate and other investments.
2 Other reserves principally include the merger reserve of 494m arising from the combination of Halifax and Bank of Scotland in 2001.
3 The cumulative balance for exchange translation at 31 December 2008 is 159m 2007 28 m. On 19 March 2008 HBOS Capital Funding No.
4 L. P. issued 750m Fixed-to-Floating Rate Perpetual Preferred Securities at par, as included in Minority Interest above.
Discretionary distributions at a rate of 9.54% per annum payable semi-annually in arrears until 19 March 2018 at which time the interest rate will become three month LIBOR plus 6.75% per annum payable quarterly in arrears.
The Group has the option to redeem these securities on 19 March 2018 and quarterly thereafter.
113 114 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 41 Shareholders Equity continued Oth er reserves Cash ow Available Share Share hedge for sale Other Retained Minority 1 2 capital premium reserve reserve reserves earnings interests Total Group m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2007 1,139 2,856 423 203 535 15,529 486 21,171 Foreign exchange translation 1 1 2 Net actuarial gains from fide ned bene t plans 416 416 Tax thereon 104 104 Available for sale investments: Net change in fair value 429 429 Tax thereon 96 96 Realised gains on sale transferred to the income statement Note 3 281 281 Tax thereon 80 80 Impairment recognised in income statement Note 12b 23 23 Tax thereon 6 6 Cash ow hedges: Effective portion of changes in fair value taken to equity 313 313 Tax thereon 97 97 Gains transferred to income statement Note 3 417 417 Tax thereon 125 125 Pro t for the year 4,045 68 4,113 Total recognised income and expense 508 516 1 4,357 68 3,402 Dividends paid Note 42 1,747 39 1,786 Issue of new shares Note 39 5 141 146 Ordinary share buyback 13 13 500 500 Sale of disposal group 130 130 Other movements net of tax 11m 3 15 12 Movement in own shares 177 177 Movements in share-based compensation reserve 120 120 At 31 December 2007 and 1 January 2008 1,131 2,997 85 313 552 17,567 385 22,234 1 The available for sale reserve is comprised of 5,285 m 2007 450 m in respect of treasury assets and 50 m 2007 137m in respect of corporate and other investments.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 115 41 Shareholders Equity continued Cash ow Share Share Other hedge Retained capital premium reserves reserve earnings Total Company m m m m m m At 1 January 2007 1,139 2,856 53 4,537 8,585 Net actuarial gains from fide ned bene t plans net of tax 261 261 Pro t after tax 1,731 1,731 Total recognised income and expense 1,992 1,992 Dividends paid 1,747 1,747 Issue of new shares 5 141 146 Ordinary share buyback 13 13 500 500 Acquisition of own shares 62 62 Movements in respect of share-based compensation 3 134 137 At 31 December 2007 and 1 January 2008 1,131 2,997 69 4,354 8,551 Net actuarial gain from fide ned bene t plans 808 808 Tax thereon 215 215 Loss after tax 1,902 1,902 Total recognised income and expense 1,309 1,309 Dividends paid 1,286 1,286 Issue of new shares 419 3,712 4,131 Movement in cash ow hedge 2 2 Movement in own shares 53 53 Movements in respect of share-based compensation 134 134 At 31 December 2008 1,550 6,709 69 2 1,840 10,166 Movements in own shares are included within retained earnings.
These shares are held for the purposes of satisfying obligations arising from certain share-based compensation schemes as detailed in Note 40.
42 Dividends A Capitalisation Issue took place on 6 October 2008 in lieu of an interim cash dividend to shareholders.
Qualifying shareholders received new fully paid ordinary shares based on the capitalisation amount per ordinary share as at 3 October 2008 6.07p, multiplied by the number of ordinary shares held at close of business on 3 October, divided by the Capitalisation Issue price of 232p, being the value per ordinary share agreed under the terms of the acquisition by Lloyds TSB Group plc Note 57.
Ordinary dividends are charged direct to reserves only when the Company has a contractual obligation to pay.
The following dividends have been charged to retained earnings during the year: 2008 2007 m m Ordinary share dividends 2006 final dividend of 27.9p per share 1,048 2007 interim dividend of 16.6p per share 619 2007 final dividend of 32.3p per share 1,205 1,205 1,667 115 Preference share dividends Equity dividends paid 81 80 1,286 1,747 116 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 43 Contingent Liabilities and Commitments 2008 2007 Group m m Contingent liabilities Acceptances and endorsements 43 Guarantees and irrevocable letters of credit 4,898 6,891 4,898 6,934 Commitments Short term trade related transactions 137 115 Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend with maturity: Up to and including one year 50,211 68,253 Over one year 33,109 31,416 83,457 99,784 Of the amounts shown above in respect of undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend, 56,319m 2007 71,970m was irrevocable.
2008 2007 Company m m Contingent liabilities Guarantees provided to subsidiaries 3,949 2,608 3,949 2,608 The contractual amounts above indicate the volume of business outstanding at the year end and do not re ect the underlying credit and other risks, which are signi cantly lower as some facilities will not be drawn down and some facilities that are drawn will be supported by collateral.
It should be noted that the Groups liquidity lines to the Groups Grampian and Landale conduits do not appear in the table above as these are internal to the Group and are eliminated on consolidation.
Where the Group is a lessee the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are due to be paid in the following periods: 2008 2007 Group m m Not later than one year 177 185 Later than one year and not later than five years 645 674 Later than five years 1,230 1,320 2,052 2,179 Where the Group is a lessee the future obligations payable under finance leases are as follows: 2008 2007 Group m m Not later than one year 1 Later than one year and not later than five years 1 Commitments in respect of capital expenditure on property and equipment that is authorised but not provided for in the accounts, for contracts which have been entered into amount to 18m 2007 21m.
Commitments for contracts which have been placed in relation to operating lease assets amount to 10m 2007 11m.
Legal and regulatory matters: a Unarranged overdraft charges On 27 July 2007 it was announced that members of the Group, along with seven other major UK current account providers, had reached agreement with the OFT to commence legal proceedings in the High Court of England and Wales for a declaration or declarations to resolve legal uncertainties concerning the fairness and lawfulness of unarranged overdraft charges the Test Case.
It was also announced that HBOS and those other providers will seek a stay of all current and potential future court proceedings which are brought against them in the UK concerning these charges and have obtained the consent of the Financial Ombudsman Service FOS not to proceed with consideration of the merits of any complaints concerning these charges that are referred to them prior to the resolution of the Test Case.
By virtue of a waiver granted by the FSA of its complaints handling rules, HBOS and other banks, including the banks party to the Test Case will not be dealing with or resolving customer complaints about unarranged overdraft charges while the waiver is in force.
On 22 January 2009, the FSA con rmed that it is extending its waiver regarding unarranged overdraft charges complaints until 26 July 2009.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 117 43 Contingent Liabilities and Commitments continued The first step in the Test Case was a trial of certain preliminary issues concerning the legal status and enforceability of contractual terms relating to unarranged overdraft charges.
This preliminary trial concluded on 8 February 2008 and the judgment was handed down on 24 April 2008.
The judgment held that the contractual terms relating to unarranged overdraft charges currently used by the Group i are not capable of being penalties, but ii are not exempt from assessment for fairness under the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contract Regulations 1999 UTCCRs.
At a court hearing on 22 and 23 May 2008, the Judge granted HBOS and the other Test Case banks permission to appeal his decision that current unarranged overdraft charges are assessable for fairness under the UTCCRs.
This appeal concluded on 5 November 2008.
On 26 February 2009 the Court of Appeal dismissed the banks appeal and held that the charges are assessable for fairness.
The banks will now be applying to the House of Lords for permission to appeal this judgement.
A further hearing took place in early July 2008, at which the Court was asked to consider whether terms and conditions previously used by the Test Case banks are capable of being penalties and whether the Judges decision in April 2008 that the banks current contractual terms are capable of being assessed for fairness under the UTCCRs can be applied to historic terms.
The Court handed down its judgment on 8 October 2008 on this second stage of the test case process.
The Court ruled that charges applied under Halifax and Bank of Scotlands previously used terms and conditions cannot be penalties.
However, the Court also ruled that the historic terms and conditions are not exempt from assessment for fairness under the UTCCRs.
The banks intend to appeal this latter decision.
Further Court hearings will be required before the test case process is concluded.
A fide nitive outcome of the Test Case is unlikely to be known for at least twelve months.
Given the early stage of these proceedings and the uncertainty as to their outcome, it is not practicable at this time to estimate any potential financial effect.
b Payments Protection Insurance PPI The final report from the Competition Commission CC into Payment Protection Insurance PPI was received on 29 January 2009.
The remedies published were broadly similar to those outlined in the CCs Provisional Decision with some changes to the sales process.
Whilst the Group believes many of the remedies could improve customer searching and enable switching, the inability to sell appropriate insurance products at a point when customers take on increased financial commitment, will likely result in lower levels of protection for UK consumers.
The Group is actively reviewing its customer propositions, in the light of the CCs Final Report, to ensure that the Group continue to offer a valuable protection product to the Groups customers.
The Group took the decision to launch a regular premium protection product.
This was launched in early February 2009.
The FOS has been receiving a large number of complaints in relation to PPI sold by a number of providers and has written to the FSA suggesting an industry wide review of PPI sales standards.
In response, the industry is working on a Statement of Principles to fide ne a consistent way of handling sales complaints.
The FSA is considering FOS suggestions and a statement from the FSA in relation to its most recent thematic work in relation to PPI is expected in the first quarter of 2009. c Other legal and regulatory matters HBOS is engaged in other litigation in the UK and overseas arising out of its normal business activities.
HBOS considers that none of these actions are material and has not disclosed any contingent liability in respect of these actions because it is not practical to do so.
117 118 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 44 Measurement Basis of Financial Assets and Liabilities The accounting policies describe how different classes of financial instruments are measured, and how income and expenses, including fair value gains and losses, are recognised.
The following table analyses the carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities by category and by balance sheet heading.
Investment contracts with DPF valued under IFRS 4 are excluded from this table.
At fair value through the income statement Derivatives Held Designated Available Loans and Financial Total designated for upon for receivables liabilities at as hedging trading initial sale amortised 1 instruments recognition cost Group m m m m m m m As at 31 December 2008 Financial assets Cash and balances with central banks 2,502 2,502 Items in course of collection 445 445 Financial assets held for trading 22,571 22,571 Derivative assets 22,082 29,728 51,810 Loans and advances to banks 4,854 12,791 17,645 Loans and advances to customers 435,223 435,223 Investment securities 66,271 28,048 39,053 133,372 Other financial assets 491 2,478 2,969 Total financial assets 22,082 52,299 71,616 28,048 492,492 666,537 Financial liabilities Deposits by banks 97,150 97,150 Customer accounts 222,251 222,251 Financial liabilities held for trading 18,851 18,851 Derivative liabilities 9,297 29,608 38,905 Debt securities in issue 188,448 188,448 Investment contract liabilities 33,321 33,321 Other borrowed funds 30,119 30,119 Other financial liabilities 210 2,419 2,629 Total financial liabilities 9,297 48,459 33,531 540,387 631,674 1 Financial instruments designated at fair value through the income statement upon initial recognition include 63,631m financial assets and 33,362m financial liabilities that are policyholder funds.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 119 44 Measurement Basis of Financial Assets and Liabilities continued At fair value through the income statement Derivatives Held Designated Available for Loans and Financial Total designated for upon sale receivables liabilities at as hedging trading initial amortised 1 instruments recognition cost Group m m m m m m m As at 31 December 2007 Financial assets Cash and balances with central banks 2,945 2,945 Items in course of collection 945 945 Financial assets held for trading 54,681 54,681 Derivative assets 4,760 9,381 14,141 Loans and advances to banks 3,118 4,565 7,683 Loans and advances to customers 430,007 430,007 Investment securities 76,971 49,986 702 127,659 Other financial assets 887 893 1,780 Total financial assets 4,760 64,062 80,976 49,986 440,057 639,841 Financial liabilities Deposits by banks 41,513 41,513 Customer accounts 243,221 243,221 Financial liabilities held for trading 22,705 22,705 Derivative liabilities 4,243 8,068 12,311 Investment contract liabilities 45,636 45,636 Debt securities in issue 1,842 204,678 206,520 Other borrowed funds 50 24,203 24,253 Other financial liabilities 502 665 1,167 Total financial liabilities 4,243 30,773 48,030 514,280 597,326 1 Financial instruments designated at fair value through the income statement upon initial recognition include 70,546m financial assets and 44,025m financial liabilities that are policyholder funds.
At fair value through the income statement Derivatives Held Designated Available for Loans and Financial Total designated for upon sale receivables liabilities at as hedging trading initial amortised instruments recognition cost Company m m m m m m m As at 31 December 2008 Financial assets Amounts owed by Group entities 50,157 50,157 Derivative assets 2,638 2,638 Other financial assets 58 58 Total financial assets 2,638 50,215 52,853 Financial liabilities 119 Amounts owed to Group entities 36,450 36,450 Derivative liabilities 55 55 Other borrowed funds 22,235 22,235 Other financial liabilities 296 296 Total financial liabilities 55 58,981 59,036 120 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 44 Measurement Basis of Financial Assets and Liabilities continued At fair value through the income statement Derivatives Held Designated Available for Loans and Financial Total designated for upon sale receivables liabilities at as hedging trading initial amortised instruments recognition cost Company m m m m m m m As at 31 December 2007 Financial assets Amounts owed by Group entities 38,885 38,885 Derivative assets 162 162 Investment securities 1 1 Other financial assets 15 15 Total financial assets 162 1 38,900 39,063 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to Group entities 29,267 29,267 Derivative liabilities 56 56 Other borrowed funds 15,503 15,503 Other financial liabilities 151 151 Total financial liabilities 56 44,921 44,977 45 Financial Asset Reclassi cations Following the publication by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and subsequent endorsement by the European Union in October 2008 of the amendments to International Accounting Standard 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, the Group has reviewed the classi cation of its trading portfolio.
The Group has noted that the ongoing market dislocation and the deterioration of the worlds financial markets that has occurred during the third quarter of 2008 is a suf ciently rare circumstance to warrant a review of the classi cation of financial assets held for trading.
With effect from 1 July 2008, the Group transferred from the held for trading classi cation certain asset backed securities ABS and oating rate notes FRNs with fair values at that time of 9,112m and 3,098m respectively, to the available for sale AFS classi cation within investment securities.
The carrying values as at 31 December 2008 are 10,132m and 3,410m respectively and the fair values as at 31 December 2008 are 10,047m and 3,410m respectively.
Subsequent to the transfers performed on 1 July 2008, the Group determined in light of increasing illiquidity in the markets for ABS to change the classi cation of certain ABS assets from AFS to loans and receivables.
A portfolio of ABS was reclassi ed to loans and receivables with effect from 1 November 2008 with fair values at that time of 35,446m.
The carrying values and fair values as at 31 December 2008 are 37,173m and 36,191m respectively.
The financial impact of the reclassi cations described above is set out below.
a Debt securities reclassi ed from held for trading to AFS, with effect from 1 July 2008 Negative fair value adjustments of 730m were taken through the income statement relating to these assets for the period from 1 January 2008 to 30 June 2008 full year 2007 212m.
If these assets had not been reclassi ed during the year additional negative fair value adjustments of 981m, net of accretion of discount of 96m, would have been recognised in the income statement and the AFS reserve movement would have been reduced by 776m post tax for the period from 1 July 2008 to 31 December 2008.
At 1 July 2008 the effective interest rates on the reclassi ed debt securities ranged from 3% to 12% with expected recoverable cash ows of 13,359m.
b ABS reclassi ed from available for sale to loans and receivables, with effect from 1 November 2008 Negative fair value adjustments of 3,301m post tax were taken through AFS reserves for the period from 1 January 2008 to 31 October 2008 full year 2007 319m post tax.
If these assets had not been reclassi ed during the year additional negative fair value adjustments of 708m post tax would have been recognised in the AFS reserves for the period from 1 November 2008 to 31 December 2008.
Following this change in classi cation, these securities are no longer subject to measurement at fair value, although they will continue to be subject to regular impairment testing.
At 1 November 2008 the effective interest rates on the ABS reclassi ed, ranged from 3% to 12% with expected recoverable principal ows of 40,968m.
The reclassi cations of trading assets and AFS investment securities during the year had the effect of increasing both basic and diluted earnings per share by 15.6p.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 121 46 Fair Value of Financial Instruments The following table summarises the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and liabilities not carried on the Groups balance sheet at fair value.
This note provides additional information in respect of financial instruments carried as loans and receivables or held at amortised cost Note 44.
Carrying Carrying Fair Fair amount amount value value 2008 2007 2008 2007 Group m m m m Financial assets Loans and advances to banks 12,791 4,565 12,824 4,948 Loans and advances to customers 435,223 430,007 422,019 431,639 Investment securities 39,053 0702 38,231 702 Other financial assets 2,478 893 2,480 893 Financial liabilities Deposits by banks 97,150 41,513 97,184 41,528 Customer accounts 222,251 243,221 222,992 244,072 Debt securities in issue 188,448 204,678 182,470 203,579 Other borrowed funds 30,119 24,203 20,895 23,981 Other financial liabilities 2,419 665 2,424 665 Carrying Carrying Fair Fair amount amount value value 2008 2007 2008 2007 Company m m m m Financial assets Amounts owed by Group entities 50,157 38,885 44,793 38,536 Other financial assets 58 15 58 15 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to Group entities 36,450 29,267 36,552 29,334 Other borrowed funds 22,235 15,503 15,229 15,253 Other financial liabilities 296 151 296 151 The valuation methodologies for calculating the fair value of financial instruments carried as loans and receivables and at amortised cost are set out below.
Fair value is the amount for which the Group could exchange an asset, or could settle a liability, with other knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction.
The objective of the valuation techniques applied is to determine what the values would have been at year end in an arms length transaction motivated by normal business considerations.
Loans and advances to banks, loans and advances to customers, deposits by banks and customer accounts are not regularly traded and so market prices are not available.
In this instance, valuation techniques are applied to determine the fair value of these instruments.
For loans and deposits with variable interest rates, the fair value is represented by the carrying value as these products are at an administered rate that can be immediately repriced.
The portfolios are strati ed into various sub-groups, and also distinguish between performing loans and non-performing loans.
For performing loans, counterparty credit risk is taken into account in determining the fair value with reference to current spreads at which similar products are currently priced, as appropriate.
For non-performing loans, fair value is determined taking into account expected cash ows and discounting them over the period when they are expected to be recovered.
121 For other loans fair value is estimated by discounting anticipated contractual cash ows at current market interest rates.
For performing loans, current market interest rates are derived by reference to the rates at which similar products are currently priced and after taking into account signi cant changes in credit spreads.
Credit spreads are determined with reference to new originations for similar products, and take into account the type of product, the maturity pro le of the portfolio and collateral held.
For non-performing loans, fair value is determined taking into account expected cash ows and discounting it over the period when they are expected to be recovered.
For other customer deposits, fair value is estimated by discounting anticipated contractual cash ows at current market interest rates.
For investment securities held as loans and receivables and debt securities in issue and other borrowed funds carried at amortised cost, the fair values have been derived using quoted prices where available, broker valuations and where these are not available, cash ow models, adjusted for credit spreads where appropriate.
Cash ow models take into account expected cash ows and the expected maturity of the instrument.
The fair values have been calculated on a product basis and as such do not necessarily represent the value that could have been obtained for a portfolio if it were sold at 31 December 2008.
122 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 47 Expected Maturity The table below sets out the expected maturity of financial assets and liabilities.
The table below sets out the Groups exposure to credit risk relating to financial instruments and insurance assets before taking account of collateral and other security.
Policyholder assets are excluded from the Groups exposure in the table as the underlying credit risks are for the account of policyholders.
2008 2007 Policyholder Group Policyholder Group Total funds exposure Total funds exposure m m m m m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 2,502 2,502 2,945 2,945 Items in the course of collection 445 445 945 945 Financial assets held for trading 22,571 22,571 54,681 54,681 Derivative assets 51,810 1,237 50,573 14,141 416 13,725 Loans and advances to banks 17,645 4,487 13,158 7,683 2,437 5,246 Loans and advances to customers 435,223 435,223 430,007 430,007 Debt securities 92,625 21,230 71,395 76,814 20,714 56,100 Reinsurance assets 44 44 41 41 Other financial assets excluding equity shares 2,969 299 2,670 1,780 426 1,354 625,834 27,253 598,581 589,037 23,993 565,044 Irrevocable loan commitments and other credit related contingencies 61,217 61,217 78,904 78,904 Total 687,051 27,253 659,798 667,941 23,993 643,948 The table below sets out the Companys exposure to credit risk relating to financial instruments before taking account of collateral and other security.
2008 2007 m m Derivative assets 2,638 162 Amounts owed by Group entities 50,157 38,885 Debt securities 1 52,795 39,048 Contingent liabilities and commitments 3,949 2,608 56,744 41,656 Loans and advances to customers Loans and advances to customers are managed on a divisional basis as shown in Note 11.
Further analysis of loans and advances to customers is given in Note 18.
2008 Retail Treasury Corporate International Total m m m m m Loans and advances to customers : Neither past due nor impaired 240,618 2,545 104,519 55,802 403,484 Past due but not impaired 8,609 4,570 3,222 16,401 123 Impaired 9,123 13,848 3,060 26,031 Total 258,350 2,545 122,937 62,084 445,916 Before impairment provisions Included in loans neither past due nor impaired are the following troubled debt restructured loans which would have been past due or impaired had their terms not been renegotiated: 2008 Retail Corporate International Total m m m m Renegotiated loans 368 98 12 478 124 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 48 Credit Risk continued 2007 Retail Treasury Corporate International Total m m m m m Loans and advances to customers Neither past due nor impaired 240,921 299 104,983 65,186 411,389 Past due but not impaired 7,342 2,720 1,567 11,629 Impaired 6,503 3,218 641 10,362 Total 254,766 299 110,921 67,394 433,380 Before impairment provisions Included in loans neither past due nor impaired are the following troubled debt restructured loans which would have been past due or impaired had their terms not been renegotiated: 2007 Retail Corporate International Total m m m m Renegotiated loans 227 2 229 Retail - residential mortgage lending i Loan to value analysis of residential mortgage lending 2008 2007 % % Less than 60% averaging 25%, 2007 28% 28 47 60% to 70% 10 18 70% to 80% 13 18 80% to 90% 16 13 90% to 100% 16 4 Greater than 100% 17 Total 100 100 ii Average loan to value of residential mortgage lending 2008 2007 % % Stock of residential mortgages 56 44 New residential lending 67 65 Impaired mortgages 76 57 Note: LTV analysis is based on indexed valuation for stock and valuation at inception of new loans.
The stock of residential mortgages includes past due loans.
Corporate, International and Treasury The Groups Corporate, International and Treasury neither past due nor impaired lending exposures are analysed by internal credit rating below: 2008 2007 Treasury Corporate International Total Treasury Corporate International Total % % % % % % % % Better than satisfactory risk 100 29 36 33 100 34 41 37 Satisfactory risk 51 49 50 52 47 50 Viable but monitoring 17 12 15 12 12 12 High risk 3 3 2 2 1 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 125 48 Credit Risk continued Past due but not impaired The ageing of the Groups lending exposure that is past due but not impaired before impairment provisions is analysed below: 2008 2007 a a Retail Corporate International Total Retail Corporate International Total m m m m m m m m 0 to 3 months 8,609 4,153 2,511 15,273 7,342 2,690 1,375 11,407 3 to 6 months 417 505 922 7 145 152 More than 6 months 206 206 23 47 70 Total 8,609 4,570 3,222 16,401 7,342 2,720 1,567 11,629 a Secured 7,993m 2007 6,756m and unsecured 616m 2007 586m.
Impaired loans The Groups impaired gross lending exposure before impairment provisions is analysed below: 2008 2007 m m Retail secured lending 6,914 4,234 Retail unsecured lending 2,209 2,269 Corporate no loss 1,242 1,648 Corporate with loss 12,606 1,570 International 3,060 641 26,031 10,362 Loans categorised as impaired with no loss represent loans that have been individually assessed as having impairment characteristics but where the Group expect, after taking into consideration collateral and other credit enhancements, full recovery of both interest and capital.
Loans categorised as impaired with no loss represent loans that have been individually assessed as having impairment characteristics but where the Group expect, after taking consideration of collateral and other credit enhancements, full recovery of both interest and capital.
1 For 2008 the ageing of the Corporate lending exposure is based upon the date the loan became overdue.
For 2007, it is based upon the date the account entered impaired status.
125 Impairment provisions as a % of closing net advances are analysed in the following table: 2008 2007 As % of As % of closing net closing net m advances m advances Retail 3,038 1.19 2,219 0.88 Corporate 6,563 5.64 832 0.76 International 1,092 1.79 322 0.48 Total impairment provisions 10,693 2.46 3,373 0.78 126 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 48 Credit Risk continued Impaired loans as a % of closing net advances and impairment provisions as a % of impaired loans are analysed by division in the following table: Impaired Impairment loans as % provisions as Net Impaired of closing Impairment % of impaired Advances loans advances provisions loans As at 31 December 2008 bn m % m % Retail: Secured 238.5 6,914 2.9 1,219 18 Unsecured 16.8 2,209 13.15 1,819 82 Total 255.3 9,123 3.57 3,038 33 2 Corporate 116.4 13,848 11.90 6,563 47 International 61.0 3,060 5.02 1,092 36 Treasury & Asset Management 2.5 Total 435.2 26,031 5.98 10,693 41 2 Within Corporate the percentage of impaired loans as a % of closing advances which relates to impaired loans with a loss as a % of closing advances is 1.07% 2007 1.50%.
Impaired Impairment loans as % provisions as Net Impaired of closing Impairment % of impaired Advances loans advances provisions loans As at 31 December 2007 bn m % m % Retail: Secured 235.6 4,234 1.8 330 8 Unsecured 17.0 2,269 13.35 1,889 83 Total 252.6 6,503 2.57 2,219 34 2 Corporate 110.1 3,218 2.92 832 26 International 67.1 641 0.96 322 50 Treasury & Asset Management 0.2 Total 430.0 10,362 2.41 3,373 33 Before impairment provisions 2 Within Corporate the percentage of impaired loans as a % of closing advances which relates to impaired loans with a loss as a % of closing advances is 1.07% 2007 1.50%.
Collateral and other credit enhancements held Financial assets that are past due or individually assessed as impaired may be partially or fully collateralised or subject to other forms of credit enhancement.
Assets in these categories subject to collateralisation are mainly corporate and residential mortgage loans.
For corporate loans, security may be in the form of oating charges where the value of the collateral varies with the level of assets such as inventory and receivables held by customer.
For these and other reasons collateral given is only accurately valued on origination of the loan or in the course of enforcement actions and as a result it is not practicable to estimate the fair value of the collateral held.
A description and the estimated fair value of collateral held in respect of residential mortgage loans that are past due or individually assessed as impaired was as follows: 2008 2007 Fair value Fair value m m Nature of assets - Residential property 13,534 10,660 13,534 10,660 Collateral included in the above table re ects the Groups interest in the property in the event of default.
That held in the form of charges against residential property in the UK is restricted to the outstanding loan balance.
In other territories, where the Group is not obliged to return any sale proceeds to the mortgagee, the full estimated fair value has been included.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 127 48 Credit Risk continued Repossessed collateral During 2008 the Group obtained assets as a result of the enforcement of collateral held as security, as follows: 2008 2007 Carrying Carrying amount amount m m Nature of assets - Residential property 617 292 617 292 The Group does not use assets obtained in its operations.
Assets obtained are normally sold, generally at auction, or realised in an orderly manner to settle indebtedness.
Any surplus funds are returned to the borrower or are otherwise dealt with in accordance with appropriate insolvency regulations.
Credit ratings The internal credit ratings of the Group are assessed on a comparable basis to those given by external credit rating agencies.
Where external credit ratings are available, these have been used in the analysis below.
AAA AA A BBB Other rated Unrated Total As at 31 December 2008 % % % % % % % Financial assets held for trading 67.4 19.3 12.1 0.5 0.7 0.0 100.0 Derivative assets 4.1 34.5 44.3 0.8 0.0 16.3 100.0 Loans and advances to banks 29.6 36.6 22.3 8.7 0.8 2.0 100.0 Reinsurance assets 3.6 67.0 29.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 Debt securities 52.0 23.8 16.8 3.1 2.8 1.5 100.0 AAA AA A BBB Other rated Unrated Total As at 31 December 2007 % % % % % % % Financial assets held for trading 51.5 34.4 13.7 0.1 0.2 0.1 100.0 Derivative assets 4.3 62.0 16.4 0.5 0.0 16.8 100.0 Loans and advances to banks 15.5 47.7 15.5 19.2 0.2 1.9 100.0 Reinsurance assets 2.2 78.2 0.1 0.0 0.0 19.5 100.0 Debt securities 57.8 25.8 12.9 0.2 0.1 3.2 100.0 Financial assets held for trading Financial assets held for trading are almost exclusively investment grade investments with 99% 2007 99% of inter-bank and structured investment portfolios rated A or above based on internal credit ratings.
An analysis of financial instruments held for trading is given in Note 16.
Derivative assets Derivative assets are primarily traded with investment grade counterparties with 83% 2007 83% of derivatives rated A or above based on internal credit ratings.
The Companys derivatives are wholly traded with Bank of Scotland plc which has a credit rating of AA.
An analysis of derivatives is given in Note 17.
Loans and advances to banks Loans and advances to banks are primarily invested with investment grade banks of which 89% 2007 79% have a credit rating of A or above based on internal credit ratings.
Debt securities 127 Debt securities are primarily held within the Treasury & Asset Management, Corporate and Insurance & Investment divisions and are almost exclusively issued by investment grade counterparties with 93% 2007 96% of debt securities rated A or above based on internal credit ratings.
The Companys investment securities comprise UK government gilts with an external AAA credit rating.
Reinsurance assets Of the reinsurance assets 71% 2007 80% are due from insurers with a credit rating of AA or above.
Amounts owed by Group entities The Companys inter-company assets are primarily transacted with companies in the Group that have credit ratings of AA.
Contingent liabilities and commitments Contingent liabilities and commitments are analysed in Note 43.
This amount re ects the outstanding business at the year end and re ects the maximum credit exposure that could be drawn down.
Some facilities will not be drawn down or may be only partially utilised.
128 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 48 Credit Risk continued Treasury debt securities - credit exposure As part of investment credit activities Treasury holds a portfolio of debt securities which are analysed below.
The investment credit business has two functions: rstly it manages part of the Groups prudential liquidity portfolio and secondly it takes investment positions principally through the Grampian conduit.
Following the International Accounting Standards Boards IASB decision to permit the reclassi cation of financial assets, Treasury reclassi ed certain securities from assets held for trading into available for sale AFS portfolio and, subsequently, in light of increasing illiquidity in the markets for asset backed securities ABS, changed the classi cation of ABS from AFS, to loans and receivables.
Further details about these reclassi cations are in Note 45.
Treasurys total debt securities portfolio as at 31 December 2008, net of fair value adjustments and impairments, is summarised in the following table: 2008 Fair value through Loans & Available income Receivables for Sale statement Total Asset class m m m m Asset Backed Securities: Direct 20,443 3,054 23,497 Grampian conduit 16,730 16,730 37,173 3,054 40,227 Covered bonds 4,062 4,062 Bank financial institutional Floating Rate Notes FRNs 15,985 1,901 17,886 Bank certi cates of deposit CDs 2,960 3,068 6,028 1 Other 1,787 6,045 7,832 Total Treasury Assets 37,173 24,794 14,068 76,035 Landale 695 695 Total net of fair value adjustments and impairment provisions 37,173 25,489 14,068 76,730 2007 Fair value through Loans & Available income Receivables for Sale statement Total Asset class m m m m Asset Backed Securities: Direct 9,612 13,729 23,341 Grampian conduit 18,563 18,563 28,175 13,729 41,904 Covered bonds 3,070 3,070 1 Bank financial institutional Floating Rate Notes FRNs 11,396 5,997 17,393 1 Bank certi cates of deposit CDs 1,774 13,618 15,392 1 Other 1,877 982 2,859 Total Treasury Assets 46,292 34,326 80,618 Landale 611 611 Total net of net of fair value adjustments and impairment provisions 46,903 34,326 81,229 1 Principally Governments and Supra-nationals.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 129 48 Credit Risk continued Fair value adjustments and impairment losses For the year to 31 December 2008, the impact of fair value adjustments and impairments on the Treasury debt securities portfolio after reclassi cation is as follows: Income Income AFS AFS Statement Statement Reserve Reserve Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 2008 2007 2008 2007 Asset class m m m m Fair value adjustments Asset Backed Securities 2,781 167 4,959 443 FRNs 343 102 1,309 169 Other 597 42 359 95 1 1 Total fair value adjustments 2,527 227 6,627 707 Impairment losses Asset Backed Securities 773 FRNs 618 Other 30 Total impairment losses pre tax 1,421 Total fair value adjustments and impairment losses pre tax 3,948 227 6,627 707 Tax on Banking Book fair value adjustments 1,856 198 Total fair value adjustments taken to AFS reserve 4,771 509 1 Included in Net Trading Income Note 2 as part of interest bearing securities and related non hedging derivatives.
Exposure to Asset Backed Securities ABS Net Average Net Average Exposure Mark Exposure Mark As at As at As at As at 31.12.2008 31.12.2008 31.12.2007 31.12.2007 m % m % Mortgage Backed Securities 1 US RMBS 6,922 64 9,307 98 Non-US RMBS 7,867 93 7,920 99 1 CMBS 3,314 95 3,340 99 18,103 79 20,567 99 Collaterised Debt Obligation 1 CBO 2,129 49 3,320 98 1 CLO 3,455 91 3,214 99 5,584 68 6,534 99 Personal Sector Auto loans 1,620 98 1,526 100 Credit cards 3,494 96 2,772 99 Personal loans 1,096 95 980 98 6,210 96 5,278 99 1 FFELP Student Loans 6,992 94 5,586 98 129 Other ABS 637 89 672 99 Total Uncovered ABS 37,526 82 38,637 99 2 Negative Basis 2,701 70 3,267 99 3 4 Total ABS 40,227 81 41,904 99 1 RMBS means Residential Mortgage Backed Securities: CMBS means Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities: CBO means Collaterised Bond Obligations: CLO means Collaterised Loan Obligations: FFELP means Federal Family Education Loan Programme.
2 Negative basis means bonds held with seperate matching credit default swap CDS protection.
3 The total comprises US securities of 24,304m 2007 16,333m, and Non-US securities of 15,923m 2007 25,571m.
4 There has been no increase in net exposure as a result of the purchase of ABS during the year.
Any increase in net exposure is the result of exchange rate movements in excess of paydowns, fair value adjustments and impairments.
130 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 49 Market Risk The Groups approach to managing market risk is set out on pages 22 to 25 of the Risk Management report.
The following table shows, split by currency, the Groups sensitivity as at 31 December 2008 to an immediate interest rate shift of 25 basis points to all interest rates.
2008 2007 25 bps -25 bps 25 bps -25 bps Impact of interest rate shift on income statement expense income m m m m Currency Sterling 82.4 119.6 21.2 21.6 US Dollar 2.9 2.7 0.6 0.5 Euro 8.0 8.1 4.3 4.3 Australian Dollar 1.5 1.5 0.1 0.1 Other 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.1 Total 69.7 107.0 25.9 26.2 The Companys approach to managing market risk is to transfer interest rate and foreign exchange risk to its subsidiary Bank of Scotland plc through a combination of inter-company loans, deposits and derivative instruments.
The following table shows, split by currency, the Companys sensitivity as at 31 December 2008 to an immediate interest rate shift of 25 basis points to all interest rates.
2008 2007 25 bps -25 bps 25 bps -25 bps Impact of interest rate shift on income statement expense income m m m m Currency Sterling 39 39 34 34 Australian Dollar 1 1 Total 39 39 33 33 Non trading currency exposure Structural currency exposures arise from the Groups investments in overseas subsidiaries, branches and other investments and are noted in the table below.
2008 2007 Net Borrowing Remaining Net Borrowing Remaining investments taken out to structural investments taken out to structural in overseas hedge net currency in overseas hedge net currency operations investments exposure operations investments exposure Functional currency of the operation m m m m m m Australian Dollar 2,015 2,015 2,023 2,023 Euro 3,011 3,011 1,888 1,613 275 US Dollar 191 181 10 97 97 Other 23 23 4 4 Total 5,194 5,207 13 4,012 3,733 279 At 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007 there are no material net currency exposures in the non-trading book relating to transactional or non-structural positions that would give rise to net currency gains or losses.
Additional information on the Groups foreign exchange risk is set out on pages 23 to 24 of the Risk Management report.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 131 50 Liquidity Risk The Groups approach to managing liquidity risk is set out on pages 25 to 28 of the Risk Management report.
The tables below set out the contractual cash ows attaching to the Groups financial liabilities excluding those related to policyholder funds and the Companys financial liabilities.
Except for the insurance contract liabilities these cash ows are not discounted and include both the contractual cash ows pertaining to the balance sheet liabilities and future contractual cash ows that they will generate.
Certain long dated financial liabilities allow for the early termination at the option of the Group.
Where the terms of these instruments have been designed to economically compel the Group to early settle, the earlier settlement date has been applied.
For undated instruments the earlier of 20 years or expected date of maturity has been applied.
The analysis of insurance contract liabilities is based on the expected timing of amounts recognised at the balance sheet date.
Policyholder funds have been excluded from the analysis as the underlying risks are for the account of policyholders and have no material direct impact on the Groups results.
2008 Up to 1 1 to 3 3 to 12 1 year Over 5 month months months to 5 years years Group m m m m m Liabilities Deposits by banks 49,712 41,710 3,881 1,456 546 Customer accounts 160,616 15,648 41,634 6,474 1,670 Financial liabilities held for trading 10,994 4,640 3,518 Derivative liabilities: Gross settled derivatives out ows 35,701 31,615 19,016 42,827 35,077 Gross settled derivatives in ows 36,761 32,588 19,028 42,323 33,121 Gross settled derivatives net ows 1,060 973 12 504 1,956 Net settled derivative liabilities 1,041 1,085 8,557 15,201 7,708 Derivative liabilities 19 112 8,545 15,705 9,664 Insurance contract liabilities 107 131 597 923 1,990 Investment contract liabilities 1 26 Debt securities in issue 21,684 25,443 40,453 83,513 26,732 Other borrowed funds 28 1,238 1,668 13,604 24,750 Other financial liabilities 1,226 4 61 14 1,392 Undrawn loan commitments 44,961 3,041 7,031 23,263 7,071 289,309 91,967 107,389 144,952 73,841 2007 Up to 1 1 to 3 3 to 12 1 year Over 5 month months months to 5 years years Group m m m m m Liabilities Deposits by banks 23,563 12,413 4,369 629 673 Customer accounts 193,031 19,276 25,220 7,934 1,642 Financial liabilities held for trading 10,610 5,556 6,540 242 Derivative liabilities: Gross settled derivatives out ows 20,580 21,966 15,575 39,030 15,700 Gross settled derivatives in ows 20,558 22,084 15,298 38,324 14,998 Gross settled derivatives net ows 22 118 277 706 702 131 Net settled derivative liabilities 332 516 1,347 4,133 2,024 Derivative liabilities 354 398 1,624 4,839 2,726 Insurance contract liabilities 99 61 495 1,185 1,821 Investment contract liabilities 1 2 1,907 13 98 Debt securities in issue 26,990 48,086 42,900 75,693 36,843 Other borrowed funds 48 246 2,145 11,776 23,911 Other financial liabilities 914 921 Undrawn loan commitments 48,060 2,670 5,761 22,006 6,995 303,670 88,708 90,961 124,317 75,630 132 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 50 Liquidity Risk continued 2008 Up to 1 1 to 3 3 to 12 1 year Over 5 month months months to 5 years years Company m m m m m Liabilities Derivative liabilities: Gross settled derivatives out ows 18 63 244 4,936 7,033 Gross settled derivatives in ows 60 238 5,813 6,957 Gross settled derivatives net ows 18 3 6 877 76 Amounts owed to Group entities 26,153 2,169 847 7,147 7,155 Other borrowed funds 530 812 8,369 18,361 26,171 2,702 1,665 14,639 25,592 2007 Up to 1 1 to 3 3 to 12 1 year Over 5 month months months to 5 years years Company m m m m m Liabilities Derivative liabilities: Gross settled derivatives out ows 12 77 564 4,539 6,356 Gross settled derivatives in ows 58 486 4,412 6,002 Gross settled derivatives net ows 12 19 78 127 354 Amounts owed to Group entities 16,597 1,050 2,814 10,208 11,568 Other borrowed funds 128 445 4,935 10,691 16,609 1,197 3,337 15,270 22,613 51 Related Party Transactions Banking transactions are entered into by the Company with its subsidiaries in the normal course of business and are at normal commercial terms.
These include loans, deposits and foreign currency transactions.
Balances between HBOS plc and its subsidiaries are shown on the Company balance sheet.
Interest income and expense are 2,880m 2007 1,909m and 2,344m 2007 1,718m respectively.
HBOS plc is the principal employer of the Group and staff and other costs in the year of 2,582m 2007 2,457m were recharged to subsidiaries.
In the year ended 31 December 2008, the Group provided both administration and processing services to Sainsburys Bank plc.
The amounts payable to the Group during the year are 26m 2007 42m, of which 10m is outstanding at the year end 2007 18m.
At 31 December 2008, Sainsburys Bank plc also has balances with the Group that are included in loans and advances to banks of 906m 2007 726m and deposits by banks of 1,274m 2007 3,430m.
At 31 December 2008 there are loans and advances to customers of 14,196m 2007 11,373m outstanding and balances within customer accounts of 342m 2007 575m relating to jointly controlled entities and associated undertakings.
In addition, 175m 2007 175m preference shares in esure are held by the Group and are reported in investment securities Note 20.
At 31 December 2008, there are customer accounts of 30m 2007 20m and investment and insurance contract liabilities of 872m 2007 425m related to the Groups pension arrangements.
Additionally, the Groups pension funds held HBOS plc ordinary shares with a value of 3m 2007 19m and HBOS plc bonds with a value of nil 2007 2m.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 133 52 Transactions with Key Management Personnel Key management personnel comprise the members of the Board of HBOS plc and, as the senior executive committee of the Group, the members of the HBOS Executive Committee.
Remuneration and other compensation 2008 2007 000 000 Emoluments 10,535 13,276 Compensation for loss of of ce 1,475 Post retirement bene ts 82 63 Equity compensation bene ts 2,083 6,257 Product transactions Key management personnel and other colleagues, as well as receiving salary, incentives, shares, pensions and other bene ts are entitled to enter into product transactions with HBOS plc and its subsidiaries.
These transactions are generally in the form of banking, savings, mortgage, loan, insurance, assurance and investment products.
Any product offerings that are received on bene cial terms compared to the terms received by customers and which give rise to taxable bene ts in kind are declared to HM Revenue & Customs and taxed accordingly.
Key management personnel and connected persons have undertaken transactions with HBOS plc and its subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associated undertakings in the normal course of business, details of which have been disclosed to the Group, are given below: Mortgages, credit cards and term loans Number of key management personnel 000 At 1 January 2007 10 5,049 Amounts advanced during the year 1 3 Interest charged 8 271 Amounts repaid during the year 11 2,036 Upon resignation 3 1,460 At 31 December 2007 7 1,827 Amounts advanced during the year 8 453 Interest charged 9 110 Amounts repaid during the year 8 567 At 31 December 2008 8 1,823 Included above is 1,675k 2007 1,682k in respect of mortgages, 18k 2007 15k in respect of credit cards and 130k 2007 130k in respect of term loans.
The number of Directors together with their connected persons who had transactions and balances with banking entities in the Group were as follows: 2008 2007 Number of Number of Directors 000 Directors 000 Loans 3 1,070 6 1,440 133 Quasi-loans and credit cards 4 12 6 14 7 1,082 6 1,454 134 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 52 Transactions with Key Management Personnel continued Bank, cheque or current accounts Number Credit Debit Net of key balances balances balances management personnel 000 000 000 At 1 January 2007 11 7,487 1,017 6,470 Upon appointment 3 413 413 Net movement during the year 15 1,129 419 1,548 Upon resignation 3 130 1,236 1,106 At 31 December 2007 12 6,641 200 6,441 Net movement during the year 12 2,893 190 2,703 At 31 December 2008 11 3,748 10 3,738 Savings and deposit accounts Number of key management personnel 000 At 1 January 2007 8 3,300 Upon appointment 2 1,550 Amounts deposited during the year 9 3,123 Interest credited 7 114 Amounts withdrawn during the year 7 2,393 Upon resignation 1 32 At 31 December 2007 10 5,662 Amounts deposited during the year 8 4,601 Interest credited 9 311 Amounts withdrawn during the year 9 7,725 At 31 December 2008 7 2,849 Life assurance and investment contracts Number of key management personnel 000 At 1 January 2007 8 6,989 Upon appointment 2 173 Premiums paid amounts invested during the year 9 3,191 Other movements including investment returns 10 1,995 Upon resignation 2 1,331 Total sum insured value of investment at 31 December 2007 8 7,027 Premiums paid amounts invested during the year 6 3,017 Other movements including investment returns 8 4,489 Total sum insured value of investment at 31 December 2008 8 5,555 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 135 53 Cash and Cash Equivalents 2008 2007 Restated Group m m Cash and balances at central banks 2,502 2,945 Less: mandatory reserve deposits 296 373 2,206 2,572 Loans and advances to banks 17,645 7,683 Less: amounts with a maturity of three months or more 7,748 4,070 9,897 3,613 Cash and cash equivalents 12,103 6,185 Mandatory reserve deposits are held with local central banks in accordance with statutory requirements: these deposits are not available to finance the Groups day to day operations.
Included in total cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2008 is 864m 2007 658m of cash held at the central bank as collateral against notes in circulation of 957m 2007 881m.
Mandatory reserve deposits of 373m at 31 December 2007 have been reclassi ed from loans and advances to banks to cash and balances at central banks.
In addition, total cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2007 have been restated to include certain cash deposits held with the central Bank of Ireland of 853m 1 January 2007 535m and cash held at the central bank as collateral against notes in circulation of 881m 1 January 2007 857m which are available to finance the Groups day to day operations.
The cash ow statements have been adjusted accordingly.
2008 2007 Company m m Amounts owed by Group entities with an original maturity of less than three months 1,870 1,177 Cash and cash equivalents 1,870 1,177 54 Securities Borrowing and Lending, Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase Agreements The Group enters into securities lending transactions and repurchase agreements, whereby cash and securities are temporarily received or transferred as collateral.
Where the securities sold subject to repurchase or pledged as collateral are retained on the balance sheet the funds received under these arrangements are recognised as liabilities.
These transactions are all in respect of standard securities borrowing and reverse repurchase agreements which are undertaken under standard market terms and conditions, or are in respect of securities exchange transactions under the Bank of Englands Special Liquidity Scheme.
Assets and liabilities relating to such arrangements at 31 December are as follows: Asset Liability 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Assets subject to repurchase Financial assets held for trading Note 16 4,369 4,711 3,425 4,523 Loans and advances to customers Note 18 56,858 39,220 Investment securities Note 20 37,263 8,996 31,682 7,841 98,490 13,707 74,327 12,364 In addition to the above, financial assets pledged as collateral as part of securities lending transactions amounted to 89,109m 2007 135 11,918m.
Securities held as collateral under stock borrowed or under reverse repurchase agreements amounted to 76,018m 2007 39,975m, of which 64,378m 2007 28,817m had been resold or repledged by the Group as collateral for its own transactions.
These securities are not recognised as assets, and the cash advanced is recognised within financial assets held for trading, loans and advances to banks and loans and advances to customers.
136 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 55 Capital Management The Groups approach to managing capital is set out on pages 31 to 33 of the Risk Management report.
The Groups capital resources are set out below.
As at As at 31 December 2008 1 January 2008 m m Capital resources Core Tier 1 Ordinary share capital 1,352 933 Eligible reserves 15,227 20,421 Minority interests 381 123 Perpetual non-cumulative preference shares Preference share capital 3,195 2,781 Innovative Tier 1 Preferred securities 3,092 3,247 Deductions from Tier 1 Goodwill & other intangible assets 2,475 2,862 1 Excess expected loss 536 875 Other deductions 446 37 Total Tier 1 capital 19,790 23,731 Upper Tier 2 Available for sale reserve 187 Undated subordinated debt 8,096 5,591 Collectively assessed impairment provisions 1,454 463 Lower Tier 2 Dated subordinated debt 10,306 9,900 Deductions from Tier 2 1 Excess expected loss 536 875 Other deductions 287 37 Total Tier 2 capital 19,033 15,229 Supervisory deductions: Unconsolidated investments - life 4,562 4,596 Unconsolidated investments - other 482 506 Total supervisory deductions 5,044 5,102 Total capital resources 33,779 33,858 1 Unaudited The table below details movements in Tier 1 capital during the year.
2008 m As at 1 January 23,731 Loss attributable to parent company shareholders 7,499 Ordinary dividends paid 1,205 Rights issue proceeds, net of expenses 3,987 Increase in minority interest equity 258 Decrease in goodwill and intangible assets 387 Preferred securities issued 750 Restriction on Innovative Tier 1 1,484 Decrease in Excess EL 339 Other 526 As at 31 December 19,790 The Groups practice is to use the Company to issue capital instruments and the Groups dividend policy requires surplus reserves to be remitted to the Company, except where they are required to be retained by the subsidiary for regulatory or financial reasons.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 137 56 Long Term Assurance Business Capital Position Statement The Capital Position Statement sets out the total capital resources relating to the life assurance business of the Group.
The statement shows the shareholders funds in the long term assurance business together with the adjustments required to reconcile these amounts with the amounts determined in accordance with the regulatory reporting framework.
2008 CMIGL UK UK life Overseas UK with-pro t non-pro t shareholder life Total life fund funds funds business business m m m m m Total shareholders funds 3,830 2 1,105 4,937 Adjustments onto regulatory basis: Less value of in-force long term assurance business Note 28 2,166 826 2,992 Less purchased value of in-force investment business Note 23 291 1 292 a Add unallocated surplus Note 32 551 551 Less shareholders share of realistic liabilities 39 39 Deferred taxation 460 196 656 Other adjustments 621 51 225 795 512 1,212 53 249 2,026 Other qualifying capital: Loan capital 1,282 1,282 c Total capital available 512 1,212 1,335 249 3,308 The Groups long term insurance and investment contract liabilities are allocated as follows: With-pro t business 5,394 5,394 Unit-linked business 16,008 5,751 21,759 Other life assurance business 2,461 390 2,851 Total insurance contract liabilities Note 30 5,394 18,469 6,141 30,004 b Investment contract liabilities 25,877 3,180 29,057 Investment contract liabilities with DPF 6,161 6,161 Total investment contract liabilities Note 31 6,161 25,877 3,180 35,218 Total policyholder liabilities 11,555 44,346 9,321 65,222 2007 CMIGL UK UK life Overseas UK with-pro t nonpro t shareholder life Total life fund funds funds business business m m m m m Total shareholders funds 4,004 40 736 4,780 Adjustments onto regulatory basis: Less value of in-force long term assurance business Note 28 2,476 708 3,184 Less purchased value of in-force investment business Note 23 320 1 321 a Add unallocated surplus Note 32 1,493 1,493 Less shareholders share of realistic liabilities 81 81 Deferred taxation 1,102 135 1,237 Other adjustments 651 55 87 509 1,412 1,659 95 249 3,415 Other qualifying capital: 137 Loan capital 1,039 1,039 c Total capital available 1,412 1,659 1,134 249 4,454 The Groups long term insurance and investment contract liabilities are allocated as follows: With-pro t business 5,640 5,640 Unit-linked business 15,484 2,409 17,893 Other life assurance business 2,280 101 2,381 Total insurance contract liabilities Note 30 5,640 17,764 2,510 25,914 Investment contract liabilities 33,890 6,497 40,387 Investment contract liabilities with DPF 7,192 7,192 b Total investment contract liabilities Note 31 7,192 33,890 6,497 47,579 Total policyholder liabilities 12,832 51,654 9,007 73,493 a The with-pro t fund unallocated surplus is determined on an adjusted realistic basis.
b Excludes investment contract liabilities related to the collective investment schemes.
138 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 56 Long Term Assurance Business Capital Position Statement continued The Group has one UK with-pro t fund, the Clerical Medical Investment Group Limited CMIGL with-pro t fund, which is shown separately in the Capital Position Statement.
The Groups UK non-pro t businesses are aggregated as well as the Groups overseas life businesses for the purpose of this statement.
For the Groups UK with-pro t fund, available capital and capital requirements are determined under the twin peaks assessment as prescribed by the regulations of the Financial Services Authority FSA.
Under this assessment the available capital is determined by comparing admissible assets with the mathematical reserves determined on the regulatory peak basis.
This is adjusted by the withpro t insurance capital component WPICC to arrive at the available capital position for the purpose of this disclosure.
The capital requirement, adjusting for the WPICC, consists of the long term insurance capital requirement LTICR.
The WPICC is determined under the twin peaks test by comparing the regulatory peak with the realistic peak.
If the latter is more onerous then this gives rise to a WPICC.
At 31 December 2008 and at 31 December 2007, the realistic peak was more onerous.
Accordingly, the available capital of the with-pro t fund is adjusted by the WPICC and presented on a realistic basis.
As more fully described in Note 32, the unallocated surplus is determined on an adjusted realistic basis in accordance with FRS 27.
There are no formal arrangements, other than those relating to the CMIGL with-pro t fund described below, for shareholders funds or the surplus within the individual life funds to be used to support other businesses or life funds within the Group.
However, as described below, subject to certain conditions being met, the available capital within the individual funds is potentially transferable to other parts of the Group.
However, the capital within each fund is generally subject to restrictions as to its availability to meet requirements that arise elsewhere in the Group, including other long term businesses.
In particular, for sections in the Capital Position Statement where aggregate capital amounts have been shown, such as for UK non-pro t funds and overseas business, there are no prior arrangements in place to allow the capital to move freely between entities within these sections.
Restrictions to the application of capital Restrictions apply to the transfer of assets from any long term fund.
In particular, at all times, each long term fund must maintain an excess of assets over liabilities.
Transfers of assets from a long term fund can only be made once management are satis ed that they have met the relevant requirements of the fund.
The principal restrictions are: a CMIGL with-pro t fund The unallocated surplus held in the fund can only be applied to meet the requirements of the fund itself or distributed according to the prescribed rules of the fund.
Shareholders are entitled to an amount not exceeding one ninth of the amount distributed to policyholders in the form of bonuses.
Such distributions would also be subject to a tax charge.
The use of capital within the fund is also subject to the terms of the scheme of demutualisation effected in 1996 and the conditions contained in the Principles and Practices of Financial Management of the fund.
Capital within the Clerical Medical non-pro t fund is available to meet the with-pro t funds capital requirements.
There are no other arrangements that provide capital support to the fund.
b UK non-pro t funds Except as above, the capital held in the fund is attributable to the shareholders and, subject to meeting the regulatory requirements of these businesses, this capital is potentially available to meet capital requirements elsewhere in the Group.
Any transfer of the surplus would give rise to a tax charge.
c Overseas life business These include several smaller life companies outside the UK.
In all cases the available capital resources are subject to local regulatory requirements including Germany and Ireland.
The available capital held in each company is potentially available to meet the capital requirements in other parts of the Group, subject to additional complexity surrounding the transfer of capital from one country to another.
Target capital For the UK with-pro t fund, the Group is required to hold suf cient capital to meet FSA requirements, based on the risk capital margin RCM determined in accordance with the FSAs regulatory rules under its realistic capital regime.
The determination of the RCM is based on the impact of speci ed changes in market prices of the fund assets as well as policyholder behaviour, taking into account the actions management would have taken in the event of the particular adverse changes.
For UK non-pro t business, the relevant capital requirement is the LTICR and resilience capital requirement determined in accordance with FSA regulations.
Under the FSAs Individual Capital Adequacy Standards framework, each company is required to carry out its own assessment of the capital required to meet its liabilities in all reasonably foreseeable circumstances known as the individual capital assessment ICA.
The ICA takes into account certain business risks not re ected in the FSAs other capital requirements.
Management intends to maintain surplus capital in excess of the various regulatory requirements, including the ICA, in order to absorb changes in both the underlying businesses and the capital requirements over the short term.
At 31 December 2008 the provisional available capital, excluding the with-pro t fund, was 370% 2007 468% of the provisional LTICR and resilience capital requirements of 756m 2007 650m.
At 31 December 2008, the total provisional available capital including the with-pro t fund on a realistic basis was 263% 2007 399% of the provisional LTICR and resilience capital requirements of 1,256m 2007 1,116m.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 139 56 Long Term Assurance Business Capital Position Statement continued Changes in capital The principal factors that resulted in changes to the total provisional available capital are set out in the table below: CMIGL UK UK life Overseas UK with-pro t non-pro t shareholder life Total life fund funds funds business business m m m m m At 1 January 2007 1,436 1,655 678 233 4,002 Impact of adopting PS06 14 279 279 a Changes in non-investment assumptions 15 42 59 1 85 b Investment markets and changes in investment assumptions 112 128 10 26 c New business 423 138 561 d Other experience 103 548 31 206 888 e Transfers of capital and dividends 570 366 61 265 At 31 December 2007 1,412 1,659 1,134 249 4,454 a Changes in non-investment assumptions 14 57 10 33 b Investment markets and changes in investment assumptions 883 98 244 3 734 c New business 333 10 343 d Other experience 3 483 2 166 648 Disposals 22 22 e Transfers of capital and dividends 556 45 127 728 At 31 December 2008 512 1,212 1,335 249 3,308 a There were no signi cant changes to the non-investment assumptions during the year.
b Net negative market condition in 2008 led to a decrease in the value of securities resulting in a decrease in the total capital available.
c The amount of capital has been reduced by the increase in liabilities and new business strain excess of acquisition costs over margins due to signi cant volumes of new long term assurance business written since the last balance sheet date.
d This is the effect of current year experience on in-force blocks of business.
e This represents the dividends paid by, or transfers of capital to and from, the funds during the year.
139 140 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 57 Post Balance Sheet Events a Lloyds Banking Group On 18 September 2008, with the support of the UK Government, the boards of HBOS plc HBOS and Lloyds TSB Group plc Lloyds TSB announced that they had reached agreement on the terms of the recommended acquisition of HBOS by Lloyds TSB.
The terms of the acquisition were subsequently amended, as announced on 13 October 2008, at the same time as the announcement of the participation by HBOS and Lloyds TSB in the Governments action plan to recapitalise some of the major UK banks.
The acquisition was to be implemented by means of a scheme of arrangement with a separate scheme of arrangement in relation to preference shares, under sections 895 to 899 of the Companies Act 2006.
On 12 January 2009 the Court of Session in Edinburgh, Scotland made an order sanctioning the scheme of arrangement for the acquisition and the preference share scheme of arrangement.
The last day of trading in HBOS ordinary and preference shares was 14 January 2009.
On 15 January 2009 HBOS raised 11.5bn of capital before costs and expenses through an issue of 8.5bn of new ordinary shares under a placing with HM Treasury subject to clawback by existing shareholders, and an issue to HM Treasury of 3bn of new preference shares.
Lloyds TSB raised 4.5bn before costs and expenses through an issue of 3.5bn of new ordinary shares under a placing with HM Treasury subject to clawback by existing shareholders, and an issue to HM Treasury of 1bn of new preference shares.
On 16 January 2009 the Lloyds TSB acquisition of HBOS completed following final court approval and Lloyds TSB was renamed Lloyds Banking Group plc.
The exchange of HBOS shares for Lloyds Banking Group shares took place at an exchange ratio of 0.605 of a new Lloyds Banking Group share for every one HBOS share held.
As a result, the UK Government through HM Treasury owned approximately 43.4% of the enlarged ordinary share capital of Lloyds Banking Group.
In addition, each class of preference share issued by HBOS, including the preference shares issued to HM Treasury in the capital raising was replaced with an equal number of new Lloyds Banking Group preference shares.
HBOS ordinary and preference shares were fide-listed from the Of cial List of UK Listing Authority and admission to trading on the London Stock Exchange was cancelled on 19 January 2009 when trading in the new Lloyds Banking Group shares commenced.
b Other As a result of the acquisition of the Group by Lloyds TSB, some of the share schemes vested in the period between 12 January 2009, being the date when the acquisition was approved by the Court of Session, and the 16 January 2009, the completion of the acquisition itself.
The remainder of the share schemes will roll over into new Lloyds Banking Group Shares.
These will continue until their original maturity date.
As a non adjusting post balance sheet event there is no accounting impact on the primary statements as at 31 December 2008.
58 Ultimate Parent Undertaking From 16 January 2009, HBOS plcs ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party is Lloyds Banking Group plc formerly Lloyds TSB Group plc which is incorporated in Scotland.
Lloyds Banking Group plc will produce consolidated accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Copies of the annual report and accounts of Lloyds TSB Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 may be obtained from Lloyds Banking Groups head of ce at 25 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7HN.
Copies of the annual report and accounts of HBOS plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 may be obtained from HBOS plcs registered of ce at The Mound, Edinburgh, EH1 1YZ or downloaded via www.
