Interim dividends for 2009 The Board has adopted a policy of paying quarterly interim dividends on the ordinary shares.
Under this policy it is intended to have a pattern of three equal interim dividends with a variable fourth interim dividend.
It is envisaged that the first interim dividend in respect of 2009 will be US$0.08 per ordinary share.
Dividends on the ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings has paid dividends on its ordinary shares every year without interruption since it became the HSBC Group holding company by a scheme of arrangement in 1991.
The dividend will be paid on 6 May 2009.
2 The above dividends declared are accounted for as disclosed in Note 12 on the Financial Statements.
Dividends are declared in US dollars and, at the election of the shareholder, paid in cash in one of, or in a combination of, US dollars, sterling and Hong Kong dollars, or, subject to the Boards determination that a scrip dividend is to be offered in respect of that dividend, may be satisfied in whole or in part by the issue of new shares in lieu of a cash dividend.
Nature of trading market HSBC Holdings ordinary shares are listed or admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange, the Hong Kong Stock Exchange HKSE, Euronext Paris, the New York Stock Exchange NYSE and the Bermuda Stock Exchange.
HSBC Holdings maintains its principal share register in England and overseas branch share registers in Hong Kong and Bermuda collectively, the share register.
As at 31 December 2008, there were a total of 217,633 holders of record of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
449 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued Nature of trading market Shareholder profile Memorandum and Articles As at 31 December 2008, a total of 14,601,549 of the HSBC Holdings ordinary shares were registered in the HSBC Holdings share register in the name of 13,196 holders of record with addresses in the US.
These shares represented 0.12 per cent of the total HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in issue.
As at 31 December 2008, there were 10,041 holders of record of ADSs holding approximately 114 million ADSs, representing approximately 569 million HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
9,845 of these holders had addresses in the US, holding approximately 113.7 million ADSs, representing 568.6 million HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
As at 31 December 2008, approximately 4.7 per cent of the HSBC Holdings ordinary shares were represented by ADSs held by holders of record with addresses in the US.
The following table shows, for the years, calendar quarters and months indicated, the highest and lowest prices for the HSBC Holdings ordinary shares and ADSs.
These are based on mid-market prices at close of business on the London Stock Exchange, HKSE, Euronext Paris, NYSE and the Bermuda Stock Exchange.
Past share price performance should not be regarded as a guide to future performance.
Stock symbols HSBC Holdings ordinary shares trade under the following stock symbols: London Stock Exchange HSBA Hong Kong Stock Exchange 5 New York Stock Exchange ADS HBC Euronext Paris HSB Bermuda Stock Exchange HSBC 450
