This non-cash charge arose US$0.47.
In a year characterised by a significant substantially in the second half of 2008 as deterioration in the credit markets and by heightened risk premia in the market increased unprecedented illiquidity in most asset classes, discount rates and cash flows estimated from return on average total shareholders equity fell to ongoing activities fell as the US economy continued 4.7 per cent.
to decline and the outlook for the business The fall in profit before tax was exacerbated deteriorated.
by recognition of a US$10.6 billion impairment Asian performance was strong, generating profit 24 before tax of US$11.9 billion, broadly in line with Investment Securities LLC Madoff results excluding the dilution gains which arose in Securities.
2007 when HSBC did not participate in share On an underlying basis, profit before tax offerings by its mainland Chinese associates.
Within declined by 73 per cent compared with 2007.
The Asia, Global Banking and Markets results were difference between the reported and underlying strongly ahead, driven by foreign exchange, Rates results is explained on page 21.
Except where stated and securities services.
Balance Sheet Management otherwise, the commentaries in the Financial revenues rose significantly from positioning ahead Summary are on an underlying basis.
of interest rate cuts, and were especially strong in Europe despite losses from the defaults of certain 2007 compared with 2006 financial sector companies.
The strength of HSBCs geographically diversified With the exception of Personal Financial business model was demonstrated by profit growth in Services, which incurred significant losses in North a year in which financial markets experienced America, all customer groups remained profitable.
significant dislocation and the credit environment, Commercial Banking and Private Banking delivered particularly in the US, deteriorated markedly.
Pre-tax results broadly in line with 2007, while Global profits in 2007 increased by 10 per cent to Banking and Markets profits declined.
US$24.2 billion and earnings per share rose by 18 per Performance was overshadowed by a cent to US$1.65.
Despite difficult market conditions, US$7.7 billion rise in loan impairment charges and the return on shareholders equity exceeded 15 per other credit risk provisions, largely from the US cent, capital ratios remained strong, revenue growth consumer finance business, and a further was in double digits and the cost efficiency ratio US$5.4 billion in trading write-downs on illiquid improved.
For the first time in recent years, pre-tax legacy positions in credit trading, leveraged and profits from the Groups emerging markets operations acquisition finance and monoline credit exposure in exceeded 60 per cent of total profits.
Increases in loan On an underlying basis, profit before tax was impairment charges and other credit risk provisions in broadly in line with 2006.
Personal Financial Services and Commercial Banking, the latter rising rapidly in the second half of 2008 The Group had a notably strong year in most from a low base, occurred as the global economy emerging markets.
Global Banking and Markets also experienced strong trade flows and buoyant equity markets a rise in loan impairment charges and other credit risk helped drive broadly based profit growth, with provisions as refinancing options dried up for a profits in all customer groups ahead of 2006.
A number of companies as the market for long-term strong performance in Asia in all customer groups asset financing became increasingly illiquid.
The compensated for the effect of deteriorating market turmoil also led to impairments on equity conditions in the US and slower growth in other securities in the available-for-sale portfolio.
Commercial Banking and Private Banking again delivered record results, as did many The following items were significant: of the businesses within Global Banking and the non-recurrence of US$1.1 billion of gains Markets, including foreign exchange, payments and which arose in 2007 on the dilution of the cash management, equities, HSBC Global Asset Groups stakes in various associates: Management and securities services.
a US$3.9 billion increase from US$2.8 billion The deterioration in credit quality which began in 2007 to US$6.7 billion in fair value in 2006 in a particular portfolio of purchased gains from wider credit spreads recorded mortgages in the US consumer finance business predominantly on HSBCs own long-term widened in the second half of 2007, leading to debt designated at fair value.
These gains are significantly increased loan impairment charges in reported in the Other segment, are not the US as economic conditions deteriorated and allocated to customer groups and are not global market liquidity for asset-backed securities included within regulatory capital calculations: dried up.
This lack of liquidity adversely affected credit trading and asset-backed securities businesses the gain of US$2.4 billion on the sale of the within Global Banking and Markets, where fideFrench regional banks: and leveraging of traded markets contributed to volatility a charge against trading income of and lower valuations.
The effect of these factors was US$984 million following the alleged fraud in partially offset by a gain on HSBCs own debt December 2008 relating to Bernard L Madoff designated at fair value.
