HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued Annual General Meeting Interim Management Statements Actuaries Enquiries The Board may whether at the time of the giving of the authorisation or subsequently make any such authorisation subject to any limits or conditions it expressly imposes but such authorisation is otherwise given to the fullest extent permitted.
The Board may vary or terminate any such authorisation at any time.
A Director shall be under no duty to HSBC Holdings with respect to any information which he obtains or has obtained otherwise than as a Director of HSBC Holdings and in respect of which he has a duty of confidentiality to another person.
Annual General Meeting The 2009 Annual General Meeting will be held at the Barbican Hall, Barbican Centre, London EC2 on Friday 22 May 2009 at 11 am.
An informal meeting of shareholders will be held at Level 28, 1 Queens Road Central, Hong Kong on Tuesday, 19 May 2009 at 4.30 pm.
2 A Vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the votes For and Against the resolution.
Interim Management Statements and Interim results Interim Management Statements are expected to be issued on 8 May 2009 and 5 November 2009 respectively.
The interim results for the six months to 30 June 2009 are expected to be issued on 3 August 2009.
Actuaries Actuaries preparing the latest valuations for the main retirement benefit schemes are: HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme: C G Singer, Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, of Watson Wyatt Limited: HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme: Estella Chiu, Fellow of the Society of Actuaries of the United States of America, of HSBC Insurance Asia Limited, a subsidiary of HSBC Holdings: and HSBC North America US Retirement Income Plan: Jennifer Jakubowski, Fellow of the Society of Actuaries, Enrolled Actuary and member of the American Academy of Actuaries, and Emily Carlson, Associate of the Society of Actuaries.
Disclosures relating to the latest valuations are included in Note 8 on the Financial Statements.
