HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Group performance Operating expenses years.
In the rest of the UK business, loan For the Group as a whole, the aggregate impairment charges in the second half of 2007 were outstanding customer loan impairment allowances lower than in the first half of the year, as overall at 31 December 2007 of US$19.2 billion represented credit quality improved following measures taken to 2.0 per cent of gross customer advances net of tighten underwriting standards and improve the reverse repos and settlement accounts, compared credit quality of new business.
Although losses from with 1.6 per cent at the end of 2006. mortgage lending remained low, maximum loan to Impaired loans to customers were value ratios were reduced during the year to mitigate US$18.3 billion at 31 December 2007 compared the effects of a possible housing market downturn.
with US$13.8 billion at 31 December 2006.
On a In Mexico, higher loan impairment charges constant currency basis, impaired loans to customers were driven by strong growth in loan balances, a were 28 per cent higher than in 2006 compared with deterioration in credit quality and portfolio customer lending growth excluding loans to the seasoning.
financial sector and settlement accounts of 7 per cent.
2008 compared with 2007 headcount to support business expansion, mainly in Asia.
Restructuring costs were incurred primarily in Reported operating expenses increased by Latin America and Europe.
US$10.1 billion to US$49.1 billion, due to an impairment charge of US$10.6 billion to fully write Premises and equipment costs increased off goodwill in Personal Financial Services in North primarily in the UK and the Rest of Asia-Pacific America.
Excluding this, operating expenses region, driven by investment in technology and remained broadly in line on both reported and extensions and improvements to the branch and underlying bases.
As a consequence, repairs and maintenance costs rose.
Commercial property rental Employee compensation and benefits fell costs also increased as a result of higher prices, new marginally.
Lower discretionary bonuses reflected rentals and sale and leaseback deals.
weaker performance in the current economic conditions.
A review of actuarial assumptions on General and administrative expenses employees defined benefit pensions resulted in decreased, primarily due to a one-off recovery of lower service costs in the UK.
The restructuring of US$110 million of previous years transactional the consumer finance business in North America led taxes in Brazil and the non-recurrence of a number to reduced headcount and lower costs.
This was of one-off items in 2007, most notably i ex-gratia partially offset by higher salaries and increased payments made in the UK in respect of overdraft 36 fees, ii the provision for reimbursement of certain processing and extending and improving the branch charges on historic will trusts and other related and ATM networks.
In particular, there was services in the UK, iii the indemnification investment in the distribution platform in Latin agreement with Visa ahead of Visas IPO, and America, Middle East, India and mainland China.
iv restructuring charges in the US consumer The retail bank branch network in North America finance business incurred in 2007.
These were partly was extended both within and beyond the Groups offset by an increase in the Financial Services traditional spheres of operation to support the compensation scheme levy in the UK and an expansion of retail and Commercial Banking increase in a litigation provision in Asia.
businesses, increasing premises and equipment costs as a consequence.
Commercial property rental costs Goodwill impairment amounting to rose in Hong Kongs dynamic economy, the effect US$10.6 billion was booked following the continued magnified by a sale and leaseback agreement on a deterioration in economic and credit conditions in headquarters building in 2006.
In France, the IT North America.
For further information see Note 22 systems inherited with the acquisition of HSBC on the Financial Statements.
France were replaced with HSBCs universal banking platform.
2007 compared with 2006 General and administrative expenses rose in Reported operating expenses increased by support of the business expansion and a number of US$5.5 billion to US$39.0 billion.
On an underlying one-off costs.
Higher transaction volumes drove basis, cost growth was 10 per cent.
processing costs and transactional taxes while Employee compensation and benefits rose due to business expansion was supported by marketing increased headcount employed to support business expenditure.
In the UK, ex-gratia payments of expansion in Rest of Asia-Pacific and Europe and US$227 million were expensed in respect of higher salaries and bonuses.
Salary increases overdraft fees applied in previous years and a reflected inflationary pressures and performance as provision of US$169 million was raised for bonuses rose in response to revenue growth.
A reimbursement of certain charges on historic will change in actuarial assumptions regarding the staff trusts and other related services.
In the US, the defined benefit pension scheme in the UK led to business incurred US$70 million of one-off costs increased costs.
Staff numbers in North America fell arising from the indemnification agreement with as the consumer finance business was restructured, Visa ahead of its planned IPO.
The US consumer resulting in the discontinuation of certain business finance business incurred restructuring charges of channels in mortgage services and the closing of US$103 million resulting from the discontinuation branch offices in consumer lending.
of the wholesale and correspondent channels in mortgage services and the closing of branch offices Premises and equipment costs increased on in consumer lending.
