This included was 43 per cent lower than in 2006, 51 per cent gains of US$425 million on the sale of the card lower on an underlying basis.
merchant acquiring business in the UK and Significant decreases in gain on disposal of US$71 million on the sale of HSBCs entire stake in property and other income were driven by lower Financiera Independencia, a Mexican consumer proceeds from the sale of real estate in the declining lending company.
On an underlying basis, other US property market.
This was compounded by the operating income fell by 23 per cent.
non-recurrence of income earned on asset disposals The difficult property market conditions in the in 2006, including the sale of the former head office UK led to a loss in value of a property fund, lower building of Hang Seng Bank in Hong Kong and income from the sale of property fund assets and a properties in Japan and India, and the transfer of the reduction in Group real estate disposals in 2008. credit card acquiring business into a joint venture Similarly, in Hong Kong revaluation gains on with Global Payments Inc. A gain on the sale and investment properties did not recur.
leaseback of a London building in 2007 and the nonrecurrence of a loss on sale on asset disposals in Life assurance enhancements to pension 2006 partially offset these factors.
products resulted in increased present value of inforce long-term insurance PVIF business, which Although HSBC sold its Canary Wharf also benefited from the non-recurrence of regulatory headquarters building at 8 Canada Square in 2007, changes in 2007 in the UK.
the gain remained unrecognised as the Group continued to provide bridge finance for the debt During 2008, HSBC recognised a gain of portion of the transaction.
US$416 million in respect of the purchase of the subsidiary of Metrovacesa which owned the property PVIF business declined, primarily due to a and long leasehold comprising 8 Canada Square, change in the calculation methodology employed in London.
See Note 23 on the Financial Statements.
the UK as HSBC implemented regulatory changes to the rules governing the calculation of insurance Other operating income declined, driven by liabilities.
This had a marginally positive effect on losses on sale of the Canadian vehicle finance profit as there was a corresponding reduction in business and other loan portfolios in 2008, in policyholder liabilities.
Income rose in Mexico due addition to the non-recurrence of gains on disposal to a refinement of the income recognition of fixed assets and private equity investments in methodology in respect of long-term insurance 2007. contracts.
