In HSBCs customer group results, the cost of funding trading assets is included with Global Banking and Markets net trading income as an interest expense.
2 Gross interest yield is the average annualised interest rate earned on average interest-earning assets AIEA.
3 Net interest spread is the difference between the average annualised interest rate earned on AIEA, net of amortised premiums and loan fees, and the average annualised interest rate paid on average interest-bearing funds.
4 Net interest margin is net interest income expressed as an annualised percentage of AIEA.
2008 compared with 2007 In North America, net interest income was also adversely affected by rises in loan modifications Reported net interest income of US$42.6 billion rose designed to reduce the payment burden on the by 13 per cent compared with 2007, 13 per cent on Groups customers, and impaired loans.
Growth in net interest income was driven by 2007 compared with 2006 significantly higher revenues in Balance Sheet Reported net interest income increased by 10 per Management, in part reflecting favourable cent to US$37.8 billion, 4 per cent on an underlying positioning to take advantage of falling interest rates.
The increase was driven by an underlying Lending and deposit balances also grew strongly, 10 per cent rise in average interest earning assets to while progressive reductions in central bank US$1,297 billion, partly offset by a decline in reference rates led to a decline in both asset yields spreads as funding costs rose more than yields.
Overall, spreads narrowed on an underlying basis.
The growth in average interest earning assets was due to a 6 per cent rise in average loans and Average interest-earning assets increased to advances to customers.
HSBC continued to focus on US$1,467 billion, led by growth in average loans competitive liability products, with average deposits and advances to customers.
This was mainly due to and current account balances rising by 16 per cent, an increase in average term lending balances in driven by customer acquisition in Rest of AsiaEurope and Asia.
Pacific and deposit balance growth in North An increase in average interest-bearing America, Europe and Hong Kong.
liabilities was driven by growth in average customer Balance Sheet Management revenues increased accounts, notably in Europe.
HSBC attracted compared with 2006, particularly in Hong Kong and substantial deposits from customers who valued Rest of Asia-Pacific as deposits grew strongly.
HSBCs perceived strength at a time of global financial market turmoil and customers also Lending spreads in 2007 reflected the continued expressed a preference for security and liquidity benign corporate and commercial credit conditions following declines in equity markets.
that have existed in the last three or four years.
However, some upward re-pricing occurred in Interest rates were cut aggressively in many personal lending as a result of growing delinquency countries during 2008, as central banks reduced their and restricted credit appetite and, as market liquidity reference rates as part of stimulus programmes diminished in the last four months of 2007, the value introduced in response to deteriorating economic and cost of funds, including the cost of funding conditions.
This contributed to a decline in asset HSBCs trading activities, rose markedly.
The cost of funds also fell, but this was less significant than the decline in yields as spreads narrowed overall on an underlying basis.
