investment company, certain dividends qualified executed in the UK.
No stamp duty reserve tax will dividends received by an individual eligible US be payable on a transfer of, or agreement to transfer, holder before 2011 generally will be subject to US an ADS effected by the transfer of an ADR.
taxation at a maximum rate of 15 per cent.
Based on On a transfer of shares from the Depository to a the companys audited financial statements and registered holder of an ADS upon cancellation of the relevant market and shareholder data, HSBC ADS, a fixed stamp duty of 5 per instrument of Holdings believes that it was not treated as a passive transfer will be payable by the registered holder of foreign investment company for US federal income the ADR cancelled.
tax purposes with respect to its 2008 taxable year.
In addition, based on the companys current US backup withholding tax and information expectations regarding the value and nature of its reporting assets, and the sources and nature of its income, HSBC Holdings does not anticipate being classified Distributions made on shares and proceeds from the as a passive foreign investment company for its 2009 sale of shares or ADSs that are paid within the US, taxable year.
Accordingly, dividends paid on the or through certain financial intermediaries to US shares or ADSs generally should be treated as holders, are subject to information reporting and may qualified dividends.
be subject to a US backup withholding tax unless, in general, the US holder complies with certain Taxation of capital gains certification procedures or is a corporation or other person exempt from such withholding.
Holders that Gains realised by an eligible US holder on the sale or are not US persons generally are not subject to other disposition of shares or ADSs normally will information reporting or backup withholding tax, but not be subject to UK taxation unless at the time of may be required to comply with applicable the sale or other disposition the holder carries on a certification procedures to establish that they are not trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a US persons in order to avoid the application of such branch or agency or permanent establishment and information reporting requirements or backup the shares or ADSs are or have been used, held or withholding tax to payments received within the US acquired for the purposes of such trade, profession, or through certain financial intermediaries.
vocation, branch or agency or permanent establishment.
Such gains will be included in income History and development of HSBC for US tax purposes, and will be long-term capital gains if the shares or ADSs were held for more than 1865 The founding member of the HSBC Group, one year.
A long-term capital gain realised by an The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking individual holder generally is subject to US tax at a Corporation, is established in both Hong maximum rate of 15 per cent.
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax 1959 The Mercantile Bank of India Limited and ADSs The British Bank of the Middle East, now HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, are If shares are transferred into a clearance service or purchased.
depository receipt ADR arrangement which will include a transfer of shares to the Depository UK 1965 A 51 per cent interest subsequently increased stamp duty and or stamp duty reserve tax will be to 62.14 per cent is acquired in Hang Seng payable.
The stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax is Bank Limited.
Hang Seng Bank is the fourthgenerally payable on the consideration for the largest listed bank in Hong Kong by market transfer and is payable at the aggregate rate of capitalisation.
1980 A 51 per cent interest in Marine Midland The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable Banks, Inc. now HSBC USA, Inc, is acquired on such a transfer will be reduced by any stamp duty with the remaining interest acquired in paid in connection with the same transfer.
No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer 1981 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS, provided that Corporation incorporates its then existing the ADR and any separate instrument of transfer or Canadian operations.
HSBC Bank Canada written agreement to transfer remain at all times subsequently makes numerous acquisitions, outside the UK, and provided further that any such expanding rapidly to become the largest transfer or written agreement to transfer is not foreign-owned bank in Canada and the 457 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued History and development Organisational structure seventh-largest overall at 31 December 2007.
2004 HSBC acquires 19.9 per cent of Bank of Communications, and Hang Seng Bank 1987 A 14.9 per cent interest in Midland Bank plc, acquires 15.98 per cent of Industrial Bank.
now HSBC Bank plc, one of the UKs principal clearing banks, is purchased.
2005 HSBC increases its holding in Ping An Insurance to 19.9 per cent, having made its 1991 HSBC Holdings plc is established as the initial investment in 2002.
Ping An Insurance parent company of the HSBC Group.
is the second-largest life insurer and the third- 1992 HSBC purchases the remaining interest in largest property and casualty insurer in Midland Bank plc.
1993 As a consequence of the Midland acquisition, 2005 HSBC Finance completes the acquisition of HSBCs Head Office is transferred from Metris Companies Inc. making HSBC the Hong Kong to London in January.
fifth-largest issuer of MasterCard and Visa cards in the USA.
1997 HSBC assumes selected assets, liabilities and subsidiaries of Banco Bamerindus do Brasil 2006 HSBC acquires Grupo Banistmo S. A. S. A. now HSBC Bank Brazil, following the Banistmo, the leading banking group in intervention of the Central Bank of Brazil, Central America, through a tender offer to and in Argentina completes the acquisition of acquire 99.98 per cent of the outstanding Grupo Roberts, now part of HSBC Bank shares of Banistmo.
2007 HSBCs three associates in mainland China, 1999 HSBC acquires Republic New York Industrial Bank, Ping An Insurance and Bank Corporation, subsequently merged with of Communications, issue new shares.
HSBC HSBC USA, Inc. and Safra Republic does not subscribe and, as a result, its Holdings S. A. interests in the associates equity decrease from 15.98 per cent to 12.78 per cent, from 2000 HSBC completes its acquisition of 99.99 per 19.90 per cent to 16.78 per cent and from cent of the issued share capital of Crdit 19.90 per cent to 18.60 per cent, respectively.
Commercial fide France S. A. now HSBC Subsequently, HSBC increases its holding in France.
Bank of Communications from 18.60 per cent 2002 HSBC acquires 99.59 per cent of Grupo to 19.01 per cent for US$308 million.
Financiero Bital, S. A. fide C. V. the holding 2007 HSBC agrees to acquire 51.02 per cent of the company of what is now HSBC Mexico.
issued share capital of Korea Exchange Bank 2003 HSBC acquires Household International, Inc. for US$6.5 billion.
HSBC terminated the now HSBC Finance Corporation.
Finance brings to the Group national 2007 HSBC is named the successful bidder in a coverage in the US for consumer lending, government auction to acquire the assets, credit cards and credit insurance through liabilities and operations of The Chinese multiple distribution channels.
2003 HSBC acquires Banco Lloyds TSB S. A.
2008 In July, HSBC completes the sale of its seven Banco Mltiplo in Brazil and the countrys French regional banks, Socit Marseillaise leading consumer finance company, Losango fide Crdit, Banque fide Savoie, Banque Chaix, Promotora fide Vendas Limitada.
Banque Marze, Banque Dupuy, fide Parseval, 2004 HSBC Bank USA, Inc. merges with HSBC Banque Pelletier and Crdit Commercial du Bank & Trust Delaware N. A. to form HSBC Sud Ouest, for US$3.2 billion.
2008 In October, HSBC enters into an agreement to 2004 The acquisition of The Bank of Bermuda acquire 88.89 per cent of PT Bank Ekonomi Limited is completed.
Raharja Tbk in Indonesia for US$608 million in cash.
The transaction is subject to 2004 HSBC acquires Marks and Spencer Retail regulatory approval.
Financial Services Holdings Limited, which trades as Marks and Spencer Money M&S Money in the UK.
