Discretionary bonuses for Directors are based on a combination of individual and corporate performance and are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Details of Directors remuneration, share options and conditional awards under the Restricted Share Plan 2000 and the HSBC Share Plan are included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 315 to 328.
9 Auditors remuneration Auditors remuneration in relation to the statutory audit amounted to US$54.9 million 2007: US$52.3 million: 2006: US$44.7 million.
They exclude amounts payable for the statutory audit of HSBC Holdings subsidiaries which have been included in Fees payable to KPMG for other services provided to HSBC.
2 Including fees payable to KPMG for the statutory audit of HSBCs subsidiaries.
3 Including services for assurance and other services that relate to statutory and regulatory filings, including comfort letters and interim reviews.
Other services pursuant to legislation included no fees paid to KPMG in respect of work relating to preparation for reporting under section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2007: US$1.6 million: 2006: US$2.2 million.
Other accounting firms were paid a total of US$1.2 million 2007: US$2.5 million: 2006: US$8.3 million for work on this project.
4 Including tax compliance services and tax advisory services.
5 Including advice on IT security and business continuity and performing agreed-upon IT testing procedures.
6 Including fees payable to KPMG for transaction-related work, including US debt issuances.
7 Including other assurance and advisory services such as translation services, ad-hoc accounting advice and review of financial models.
No fees were payable by HSBC to KPMG for the following types of services: internal audit services, valuation and actuarial services, services related to litigation, and services related to recruitment and remuneration.
In addition to the above, KPMG estimate they have been paid fees of US$4.8 million 2007: US$3.4 million: 2006: US$2.1 million by parties other than HSBC but where HSBC is connected with the contracting party and therefore may be involved in appointing KPMG.
These fees arise from services such as auditing mutual funds managed by HSBC and reviewing the financial position of corporate concerns which borrow from HSBC.
