HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 10 Fees payable to KPMG for non-audit services for HSBC Holdings are not disclosed separately because such fees are disclosed on a consolidated basis for HSBC Group.
10 Share-based payments During 2008, US$819 million was charged to the income statement in respect of share-based payment transactions settled in equity 2007: US$870 million: 2006: US$854 million.
This expense, which was computed from the fair values of the share-based payment transactions when contracted, arose under employee share awards made in accordance with HSBCs reward structures.
Calculation of fair values Fair values of share options awards, measured at the date of grant of the option award, are calculated using a binomial lattice model methodology that is based on the underlying assumptions of the Black-Scholes model.
When modelling options awards with vesting dependent on HSBCs Total Shareholder Return TSR over a period, the TSR performance targets are incorporated into the model using Monte Carlo simulation.
The expected life of options depends on the behaviour of option holders, which is incorporated into the option model on the basis of historic observable data.
The fair values calculated are inherently subjective and uncertain due to the assumptions made and the limitations of the model used.
A similar yield curve was used for the International Savings-Related Share Option Plans.
2 Expected life is not a single input parameter but a function of various behavioural assumptions.
3 Expected volatility is estimated by considering both historic average share price volatility and implied volatility derived from traded options over HSBC shares of similar maturity to those of the employee options.
Expected dividends are incorporated into the valuation model for share options and awards, where applicable.
The expected US dollar denominated dividend growth was determined to be 7 per cent for the first year 2007: 10 per cent for first 3 years and 8 per cent thereafter 2007: 8 per cent, in line with consensus analyst forecasts.
The HSBC Share Plan The HSBC Share Plan was adopted by HSBC Holdings in 2005.
Under this plan, Performance Share awards, restricted share awards and share option awards may be made.
The aim of the HSBC Share Plan is to align the interests of executives with the creation of shareholder value and recognise individual performance and potential.
Awards are also made under this plan for recruitment and retention purposes.
376 Performance Share awards Performance Shares are awarded to executive Directors and other senior executives after taking into account individual performance in the previous year.
For awards made prior to 2008, each award is divided into two equal parts for testing attainment against pre-determined benchmarks.
One half of the award is subject to a TSR measure, based on HSBCs ranking against a comparator group of 28 major banks: the other half is subject to an earnings per share target.
For each element of the award, shares are released to the employee on a sliding scale from 30 to 100 per cent of the award, depending on the scale of achievement against the benchmarks, providing that the minimum criteria for each performance measure has been met.
For awards made during 2008 and prospectively, each award is divided into three parts for testing attainment against pre-determined benchmarks.
40 per cent of the award is subject to a TSR measure, based on HSBCs ranking against a comparator group of 26 major banks: 40 per cent is subject to an economic profit measure, calculated as the average annual difference between return on invested capital and HSBCs benchmark cost of capital: and 20 per cent is subject to an earnings per share target.
For the TSR and EPS elements of the awards, shares are released to the employee on a sliding scale from 20 to 100 per cent of the award, depending on the scale of achievement against the benchmarks.
For the economic profit element of the awards, shares are released to the employee on a sliding scale from zero to 100 per cent, depending on the scale of achievement against the benchmark.
In all cases, shares are only released when the minimum criteria for each performance measure has been met.
In determining whether HSBC Holdings has achieved such sustained improvement the Remuneration Committee will take account of all relevant factors, in particular, comparisons against the TSR comparator group in areas such as revenue growth and mix, cost efficiency, credit performance, cash return on cash invested, dividend performance and TSR.
Restricted share awards Restricted shares are awarded to other employees on the basis of their performance, potential and retention requirements, to aid recruitment or as a part-deferral of annual bonuses.
Shares are awarded without corporate performance conditions and generally vest between one and three years from the date of award, providing the employees have remained continually employed by HSBC for this period.
Share options Share options were granted in 2005 under the HSBC Share Plan to employees in France on the basis of their performance in the previous year.
The share options are subject to the corporate performance conditions, which consist of an absolute earnings per share measure and a TSR measure based on HSBC Holdings ranking against a comparator group of 28 major banks.
The options may vest after three years and are exercisable up to the tenth anniversary of the date of grant, after which they will lapse.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at the balance sheet date was 2.1 years 2007: 2.4 years.
The exercise price range of options outstanding at the balance sheet date was 8.79-9.17.
All of the options were exercisable.
The options exercisable at the balance sheet date were 300 2007: nil.
Savings-related share option plans Savings-related share option plans invite eligible employees to enter into savings contracts to save up to 250 per month or its equivalent in US dollars, Hong Kong dollars or euros, with the option to use the savings to acquire shares.
The aim of the plans is to align the interests of all employees with the creation of shareholder value.
The options are exercisable within three months following the first anniversary of the commencement of a one-year savings contract or within six months following either the third or the fifth anniversaries of the commencement of three-year or five-year savings contracts, respectively.
The exercise price is set at a 20 per cent 2007: 20 per cent discount to the market value immediately preceding the date of invitation except for the one-year options granted under the US sub-plan where a 15 per cent discount is applied.
The weighted average share price at the date the share options were exercised was US$15.48 2007: US$17.93.
The aim of the plan was to align the interests of executives with the creation of shareholder value.
This was achieved by setting certain TSR targets against a peer group of major banks which would normally have to be attained in order for the awards to vest.
In addition to these performance conditions, none of the outstanding awards will vest unless the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that, during the performance period, HSBC has achieved sustained growth.
Following adoption of the HSBC Share Plan in 2005, no further awards will be made under this Plan other than from reinvested scrip dividends.
There was no weighted average remaining vesting period at 31 December 2008 2007: 0.2 years.
Restricted share awards made under the Restricted Share Plan Restricted share awards under the Restricted Share Plan were granted to eligible employees from 2000 to 2005, after taking into account the employees performance in the previous year, their potential and retention requirements.
Restricted shares were also awarded as part-deferral of annual bonuses or for recruitment purposes.
Shares were awarded without corporate performance conditions and generally vest between one and three years from the date of award, providing the employees have remained continuously employed by HSBC for the period.
The weighted average remaining vesting period as at 31 December 2008 was 0.5 years 2007: 0.3 years.
HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan The HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan was a long-term incentive plan under which certain HSBC employees between 2000 and 2005 were awarded share options.
The aim of the plan was to align the interests of those higher performing employees with the creation of shareholder value.
This was achieved by setting certain TSR targets which would normally have to be attained in order for the awards to vest.
Options were granted at market value and are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant, subject to vesting conditions.
Options granted after May 2005 are made under the HSBC Share Plan.
The number of options, weighted average exercise price, and weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at the balance sheet date, analysed by exercise price range, were as follows: 379 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Notes 10 and 11 2008 2007 Exercise price range................................................. 6.00-8.00 8.01-10.00 6.00-8.00 8.01-10.00 Number 000s.............................................................. 25,947 116,646 29,312 122,904 Weighted average exercise price............................ 6.91 8.44 6.92 8.44 Weighted average remaining contractual life years.. 4.33 4.34 5.33 5.34 Of which exercisable: Number 000s.......................................................... 25,947 116,646 29,312 61,650 Weighted average exercise price........................ 6.91 8.44 6.92 8.59 HSBC Holdings Executive Share Option Scheme The HSBC Holdings Executive Share Option Scheme was a long-term incentive plan under which certain senior HSBC employees were awarded share options before the adoption of the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan in 2000.
The aim of the plan was to align the interests of those higher performing senior employees with the creation of shareholder value.
This was achieved by setting certain TSR targets to be attained in order for the awards to vest.
Options were granted at market value and were exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant, subject to vesting conditions.
The number of options, weighted average exercise price and weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at the balance sheet date, analysed by exercise price range, were as follows: 2008 2007 6.01-7.87 6.01-7.87 Exercise price range........................................................................................................................
Options over HSBC France shares granted between 1994 and 1999 vested upon announcement of HSBCs agreement to acquire HSBC France and were therefore included in the valuation of HSBC France.
HSBC France granted 909,000 options in 2000 after the public announcement of the acquisition and these options did not vest as a result of the change in control.
The options were subject to continued employment and vested on 1 January 2002.
The HSBC France shares obtained on exercise of the options are exchangeable for HSBCs ordinary shares of US$0.50 each in the same ratio as the Exchange Offer for HSBC France shares 13 ordinary shares of US$0.50 for each HSBC France share.
Options were granted at market value and are exercisable within 10 years of the date of grant.
