2008 2007 2006 US$m US$m US$m Profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company.............................. 5,728 19,133 15,789 Dividend payable on preference shares classified as equity........................... 90 90 90 Coupon payable on capital securities classified as equity.............................. 92 Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the parent company.......... 5,546 19,043 15,699 Diluted earnings per ordinary share was calculated by dividing the basic earnings, which require no adjustment for the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares including share options outstanding not yet exercised, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own shares held, plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on ordinary conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares in 2008 of 11,915 million 2007: 11,661 million: 2006: 11,320 million.
14 Segmental analysis In the following segmental analysis, the benefit of shareholders funds impacts the analysis only to the extent that these funds are actually allocated to businesses in the segment by way of intra-HSBC capital and funding structures.
By geographical region Geographical information is classified by the location of the principal operations of the subsidiary or, for The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, HSBC Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East, HSBC Finance and HSBC Bank USA, by the location of the branch responsible for reporting the results or advancing the funds.
Due to the nature of HSBCs structure, the analysis of profits shown below includes intra-HSBC items between geographical regions with the elimination shown in a separate column.
The Rest of Asia-Pacific geographical segment includes the Middle East, India and Australasia.
Shared costs are included in segments on the basis of the actual recharges made.
By customer groups and global businesses HSBCs operations include a number of shared support services and GMO functions.
The costs of these functions are allocated to customer groups and global businesses, where appropriate, on a systematic and consistent basis.
In addition, a number of income and expense items include the effect of financial transactions entered into in the ordinary course of business between customer groups co-operating within the integrated HSBC Group.
The analysis on pages 389 to 392 includes inter-segment amounts within each customer group with the elimination shown in a separate column.
