2007 fourth interim dividend and the first, second Taxation of shares and dividends and third interim dividends for 2008 was set out in Taxation UK residents the Secretarys letters to shareholders of 3 April, 3 June, 3 September and 3 December 2008.
In each The following is a summary, under current law, of case, the difference between the cash dividend the principal UK tax considerations that are likely foregone and the market value of the scrip dividend to be material to the ownership and disposition of did not equal or exceed 15 per cent of the market shares.
The summary does not purport to be a value and accordingly, the price of HSBC Holdings comprehensive description of all the tax US$0.50 ordinary shares the shares for UK tax considerations that may be relevant to a holder of purposes for the dividends was the cash dividend shares.
In particular, the summary deals principally foregone.
with shareholders who are resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and only with holders who hold Taxation of capital gains the shares as investments and who are the beneficial owners of the shares, and does not address the tax The computation of the capital gains tax liability treatment of certain classes of holders such as arising on disposals of shares in HSBC Holdings by dealers in securities.
Holders and prospective shareholders subject to UK capital gains tax can be purchasers should consult their own advisers complex, partly depending on whether, for example, regarding the tax consequences of an investment the shares were purchased since April 1991, acquired in shares in light of their particular circumstances, in 1991 in exchange for shares in The Hongkong and including the effect of any national, state or local Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, or acquired laws.
subsequent to 1991 in exchange for shares in other companies.
Taxation of dividends For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by cost for ordinary shares is adjusted to take account of HSBC Holdings.
However, dividends are paid with subsequent rights and capitalisation issues.
Further an associated tax credit which is available for set-off adjustments apply where an individual shareholder by certain shareholders against any liability they has chosen to receive shares instead of cash may have to UK income tax.
Currently, the dividends, subject to scrip issues made since 6 April associated tax credit is equivalent to 10 per cent of 1998 being treated for tax as separate holdings.
Any the combined cash dividend and tax credit, i. e. capital gain arising on a disposal may also be one-ninth of the cash dividend.
adjusted to take account of indexation allowance and, in the case of individuals, taper relief.
Except For individual shareholders who are resident in for gains made by a company chargeable to UK the UK for taxation purposes and liable to UK corporation tax, any such indexation allowance is income tax at the basic rate, no further UK income calculated up to 5 April 1998 only.
tax liability arises on the receipt of a dividend from HSBC Holdings.
Individual shareholders who are Changes to capital gains tax were made that liable to UK income tax at the higher rate on UK apply to disposals of shares with effect from 6 April dividend income currently 32.5 per cent are taxed 2008.
The changes included: on the combined amount of the dividend and the tax shares will no longer be treated as separate credit.
The tax credit is available for set-off against holdings but pooled, the consequence of which the higher rate liability, leaving net higher rate tax to is the tax basis of disposals will be calculated on pay equal to 25 per cent of the cash dividend.
the average cost of the shares held: Individual UK resident shareholders are not entitled to any tax credit repayment.
indexation allowance was withdrawn: Although non-UK resident shareholders are Taper Relief was withdrawn: and generally not entitled to any repayment of the tax a single tax rate of 18 per cent applies to all credit in respect of any UK dividend received, some gains.
such shareholders may be so entitled under the provisions of a double taxation agreement between If in doubt, shareholders are recommended to their country of residence and the UK.
However, in consult their professional advisers.
most cases no amount of the tax credit is, in practice, repayable.
Inheritance tax Information on the taxation consequences of the Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose HSBC Holdings scrip dividends offered in lieu of the domicile is determined to be the US for the purposes 455 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued History and development Organisational structure of the United States-United Kingdom Double the income tax convention between the US and the Taxation Convention relating to estate and gift taxes UK the Treaty, and is fully eligible for benefits the Estate Tax Treaty and who is not for such under the Treaty an eligible US holder.
The purposes a national of the UK will not, provided any summary does not purport to be a comprehensive US Federal estate or gift tax chargeable has been description of all of the tax considerations that may paid, be subject to UK inheritance tax on the be relevant to a holder of shares or ADSs.
In individuals death or on a lifetime transfer of shares particular, the summary deals only with eligible US or ADSs except in certain cases where the shares or holders that hold shares or ADSs as capital assets, ADSs i are comprised in a settlement unless, at the and does not address the tax treatment of holders that time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, taxthe US and was not a national of the UK, ii is exempt entities, insurance companies, dealers in part of the business property of a UK permanent securities or currencies, persons that hold shares or establishment of an enterprise, or iii pertains to ADSs as part of an integrated investment including a UK fixed base of an individual used for the a straddle comprised of a share or ADS and one or performance of independent personal services.
In more other positions, and persons that own, directly such cases, the Estate Tax Treaty generally provides or indirectly, 10 per cent or more of the voting stock a credit against US Federal tax liability for the of HSBC Holdings.
This discussion is based on laws, amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case where the treaties, judicial decisions and regulatory shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance interpretations in effect on the date hereof, all of tax and to US Federal estate or gift tax.
which are subject to change.
Under the current income tax treaty between the UK and the US, Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax eligible US holders are no longer entitled to claim a special foreign tax credit in respect of dividends.
Transfers of shares by a written instrument of transfer generally will be subject to UK stamp duty Holders and prospective purchasers should at the rate of 0.5 per cent of the consideration paid consult their own advisers regarding the tax for the transfer, and such stamp duty is generally consequences of an investment in shares or ADSs in payable by the transferee.
light of their particular circumstances, including the effect of any national, state or local laws.
An agreement to transfer shares, or any interest therein, normally will give rise to a charge to stamp In general, the beneficial owner of a share or duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5 per cent of the ADS will be entitled to benefits under the Treaty consideration.
However, provided an instrument of and, therefore, will be an eligible US holder if it is transfer of the shares is executed pursuant to the i an individual resident of the US, a US corporation agreement and duly stamped before the date on meeting ownership criteria specified in the Treaty or which the stamp duty reserve tax becomes payable, other entity meeting criteria specified in the Treaty: under the current practice of UK HM Revenue and and ii not also resident in the UK for UK tax Customs it will not be necessary to pay the stamp purposes.
Special rules, including a limitation of duty reserve tax, nor to apply for such tax to be benefits provision, may apply.
Stamp duty reserve tax is generally discussed below generally are not available to US payable by the transferee.
holders that hold shares or ADSs in connection with the conduct of a business through a permanent Paperless transfers of shares within CREST, the establishment, or the performance of personal UKs paperless share transfer system, are liable to services through a fixed base, in the UK.
stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5 per cent of the consideration.
In CREST transactions, the tax Taxation of dividends is calculated and payment made automatically.
Deposits of shares into CREST generally will not be An eligible US holder must include cash dividends subject to stamp duty reserve tax, unless the transfer paid on the shares or ADSs in ordinary income on into CREST is itself for consideration.
the date that such holder or the ADS depositary receives them, translating dividends paid in UK pounds sterling into US dollars using the exchange Taxation US residents rate in effect on the date of receipt.
Subject to certain The following is a summary, under current law, of exceptions for positions that are held for less than 61 the principal UK tax and US federal income tax days or are hedged, and subject to a foreign considerations that are likely to be material to the corporation being considered a qualified foreign ownership and disposition of shares or ADSs by a corporation which includes not being classified for holder that is a resident of the US for the purposes of US federal income tax purposes as a passive foreign 456
