HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements Note 1 1 Basis of preparation a Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards The consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as endorsed by the EU.
EU-endorsed IFRSs may differ from IFRSs as issued by the IASB if, at any point in time, new or amended IFRSs have not been endorsed by the EU.
At 31 December 2008, there were no unendorsed standards effective for the year ended 31 December 2008 affecting these consolidated and separate financial statements, and there was no difference between IFRSs endorsed by the EU and IFRSs issued by the IASB in terms of their application to HSBC.
Accordingly, HSBCs financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 are prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
IFRSs comprise accounting standards issued by the IASB and its predecessor body as well as interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC and its predecessor body.
During 2008, HSBC adopted the following amendments to standards and interpretations: IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction had no significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC or the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings: and an amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IAS 39 and to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRS 7 Reclassification of Financial Assets Reclassification Amendment.
On adoption of the Reclassification Amendment, HSBC reclassified US$18.7 billion of trading assets in accordance with the Reclassification Amendment.
If this reclassification had not been made, the Groups pre-tax profits would have been lower by US$3.5 billion.
The adoption of the Reclassification Amendment had no effect on the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
Pages 144 to 187 of the Report of the Directors: Impact of market turmoil provides detailed disclosures as required by the Reclassification Amendment.
b Differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards There are no significant differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards in terms of their application to HSBC and consequently there would be no significant differences had the financial statements been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards.
The Notes on the Financial Statements, taken together with the Report of the Directors, include the aggregate of all disclosures necessary to satisfy IFRSs and Hong Kong reporting requirements.
c Presentation of information Disclosures under IFRS 4 and IFRS 7 relating to the nature and extent of risks have been included in the audited sections of the Report of the Directors: Risk on pages 188 to 280.
Capital disclosures under IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 1 have been included in the audited sections of Capital management and allocation on pages 274 to 280.
Disclosures relating to the effect of the recent market turmoil on HSBCs securitisation activities and structured products and disclosures under IFRS 7 relating to the fair value of financial instruments have been included in the audited section of Report of the Directors: Impact of market turmoil on pages 144 to 187.
In publishing the parent company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, HSBC Holdings has taken advantage of the exemption in section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these financial statements.
HSBC has taken advantage of the exemption under Regulation 7 of the Partnerships and Unlimited Companies Accounts Regulations 1993 from certain partnerships that are consolidated by HSBC presenting their own individual financial statements under IFRSs.
The functional currency of HSBC Holdings plc is the US dollar, which is also the presentational currency of the consolidated financial statements of HSBC.
340 d Comparative information As required by US public company reporting requirements, these consolidated financial statements include two years of comparative information for the consolidated income statement, consolidated cash flow statement, consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and related notes on the financial statements.
e Use of estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial information requires the use of estimates and assumptions about future conditions.
The use of available information and the application of judgement are inherent in the formation of estimates: actual results in the future may differ from those reported.
Management believes that HSBCs critical accounting policies where judgement is necessarily applied are those which relate to impairment of loans and advances, goodwill impairment, the valuation of financial instruments, the impairment of available-for-sale financial assets and deferred tax assets see Critical Accounting Policies on pages 61 to 66, which form an integral part of these financial statements.
Further information about key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty, are set out in these notes on the financial statements.
f Consolidation The consolidated financial statements of HSBC comprise the financial statements of HSBC Holdings and its subsidiaries made up to 31 December, with the exception of the banking and insurance subsidiaries of HSBC Bank Argentina, whose financial statements are made up to 30 June annually to comply with local regulations.
Accordingly, HSBC uses their audited interim financial statements, drawn up to 31 December annually.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date that HSBC gains control.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by HSBC.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the consideration given at the date of exchange, together with costs directly attributable to that acquisition.
The acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of HSBCs share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of HSBCs share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the business acquired, the difference is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Entities that are controlled by HSBC are consolidated until the date that control ceases.
In the context of Special Purpose Entities SPEs, the following circumstances may indicate a relationship in which, in substance, HSBC controls and consequently consolidates an SPE: the activities of the SPE are being conducted on behalf of HSBC according to its specific business needs so that HSBC obtains benefits from the SPEs operation: HSBC has the decision-making powers to obtain the majority of the benefits of the activities of the SPE or, by setting up an autopilot mechanism, HSBC has delegated these decision-making powers: HSBC has rights to obtain the majority of the benefits of the SPE and therefore may be exposed to risks incident to the activities of the SPE: or HSBC retains the majority of the residual or ownership risks related to the SPE or its assets in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
HSBC performs a re-assessment of consolidation whenever there is a change in the substance of the relationship between HSBC and an SPE.
All intra-HSBC transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC also include the attributable share of the results and reserves of joint ventures and associates.
These are based on financial statements made up to 31 December, with the exception of the Bank of Communications, Ping An Insurance and Industrial Bank which are included on the basis of financial statements made up for the twelve months to 30 September.
These are equity accounted three months in arrears in order to meet the requirements of the Groups reporting timetable.
HSBC has taken into account changes in the period from 1 October to 31 December that would have materially affected its results.
341 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 1 g Future accounting developments Standards and Interpretations issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRS 8, which replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting IAS 14, was issued on 30 November 2006 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
This standard specifies how an entity should disclose information about its segments which enables users to evaluate the nature and financial effects of its business activities and the economic environments in which it operates.
HSBC will adopt IFRS 8 with effect from 1 January 2009, and will accordingly present financial information for segments whose operating activities are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker in order to make decisions about allocating resources and assessing performance.
HSBC currently presents two sets of segment data in accordance with IAS 14, one geographical and one based on customer groups.
Under IFRS 8, HSBC expects that its operating segments will be presented by geographic region.
In addition, HSBC will continue to provide information on financial performance by customer group and global businesses alongside the geographical operating segment information in the Operating and financial review.
A revised IAS 1, which is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, was issued on 6 September 2007.
The revised standard aims to improve users ability to analyse and compare information given in financial statements.
The adoption of the revised standard will have no effect on the results reported in HSBCs consolidated financial statements or the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
It will, however, result in certain presentational changes in the primary financial statements of HSBC and HSBC Holdings.
The IASB issued an amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations on 17 January 2008.
The amendment, which is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, clarifies that vesting conditions comprise only service conditions and performance conditions.
It also specifies the accounting treatment for a failure to meet a non-vesting condition.
HSBC does not expect adoption of the amendment to have a significant effect on HSBCs consolidated financial statements or the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
The IASB issued a revised IAS 23 Borrowing Costs on 29 March 2007, which is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The revised standard eliminates the option of recognising borrowing costs immediately as an expense, to the extent that they are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset.
HSBC does not expect adoption of the revised standard to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements or the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes IFRIC 13 was issued on 28 June 2007 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008.
IFRIC 13 addresses how companies that grant their customers loyalty award credits often called points when buying goods or services should account for their obligation to provide free or discounted goods and services, if and when the customers redeem the points.
IFRIC 13 requires companies to allocate some of the proceeds of the initial sale to the award credits and recognise these proceeds as revenue when they have fulfilled their obligations to provide goods or services.
HSBC does not expect the adoption of this interpretation to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements.
This interpretation will have no effect on the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
Standards and Interpretations issued by the IASB but not endorsed by the EU At 31 December 2008, the following amendments to standards and interpretations, effective for these consolidated financial statements, were issued by the IASB but not endorsed by the EU: an amendment to IAS 39 and to IFRS 7 Reclassification of Financial Assets Effective Date and Transition was issued on 27 November 2008.
The amendment, which clarifies the effective date of the Reclassification Amendment, will have no effect on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC or the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings: and IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements was issued on 30 November 2006 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
The adoption of this interpretation is not expected to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC or the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
342 A revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations and an amended IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, were issued on 10 January 2008.
The revisions to the standards apply prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual financial reporting period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The main changes under the standards are that: acquisition-related costs are recognised as expenses in the income statement in the period they are incurred: equity interests held prior to control being obtained are remeasured to fair value at the time control is obtained, and any gain or loss is recognised in the income statement: changes in a parents ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a change of control are treated as transactions between equity holders and reported in equity: and an option is available, on a  basis, to measure any non-controlling previously referred to as minority interests in the entity acquired either at fair value, or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the net identifiable assets of the entity acquired.
The effect that the changes will have on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings will depend on the incidence and timing of business combinations occurring on or after 1 January 2010.
The IASB issued amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation, on 14 February 2008.
The amendments are applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
HSBC does not expect the adoption of this amendment to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements or the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
The IASB issued Improvements to IFRSs on 22 May 2008, which comprises a collection of necessary, but not urgent, amendments to IFRSs.
The amendments are primarily effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, with earlier application permitted.
HSBC does not expect adoption of the amendments to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements or the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
The IASB issued amendments to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and IAS 27 Determining the cost of an Investment in the Separate Financial Statements, on 22 May 2008.
The amendment is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
These amendments are not expected to have a significant effect on the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings and will have no effect on the consolidated financial statements.
The IASB issued an amendment to IAS 39 Eligible Hedged Items on 31 July 2008, which is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The amendment clarifies how the existing principles underlying hedge accounting should be applied.
This amendment will have no effect on the consolidated financial statements or the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate IFRIC 15 was issued on 3 July 2008 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRIC 15 provides guidance on the recognition of revenue among real estate developers for sales of units.
HSBC does not expect adoption of IFRIC 15 to have a significant effect on HSBCs consolidated financial statements.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation IFRIC 16 was issued on 3 July 2008 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 October 2008.
IFRIC 16 provides guidance on accounting for the hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation in an entitys consolidated financial statements.
The main change introduced by IFRIC 16 is to eliminate the possibility of an entity applying hedge accounting for a hedge of foreign exchange differences between the functional currency of a foreign operation and the presentation currency of the parents consolidated financial statements.
The adoption of IFRIC 16 will have no effect on HSBCs consolidated financial statements.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners IFRIC 17 was issued on 27 November 2008 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRIC 17 provides guidance on how distributions of assets other than cash as dividends to shareholders should be accounted for.
HSBC does not expect adoption 343
