HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Notes 42 and 43 Banks estimate of the potential financial impact is that it could be in the order of approximately 350 million US$510 million, as published in the Interim Report 2008.
To make an estimate of the potential financial impact at this stage with any precision is extremely difficult, owing to among other things the complexity of the issues, the number of permutations of possible outcomes, and the early stage of the proceedings.
In addition, the assumptions made by HSBC Bank may prove to be incorrect.
On 11 December 2008 Bernard L Madoff Madoff was arrested and charged in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York with one count of securities fraud.
That same day, the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC filed securities fraud charges against Madoff and his firm Bernard L Madoff Investment Securities LLC Madoff Securities, a broker dealer and investment advisor registered with the SEC.
The criminal complaint and SEC complaint each alleged that Madoff had informed senior Madoff Securities employees, in substance, that his investment advisory business was a fraud.
On 15 December 2008, on the application of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York appointed a trustee for the liquidation of the business of Madoff Securities, and removed the liquidation proceeding to the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York.
On 9 February 2009, on Madoffs consent, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York entered a partial judgement in the SEC action, permanently enjoining Madoff from violating certain antifraud provisions of the US securities laws, ordering Madoff to pay disgorgement, prejudgement interest and a civil penalty in amounts to be determined at a later time, and continuing certain other relief previously imposed, including a freeze on Madoffs assets.
The relevant US authorities are continuing their investigations into the alleged fraud.
There remains significant uncertainty as to the facts of the alleged fraud and the extent of any assets of, and remaining within, Madoff Securities.
Various non-US HSBC group companies provide custodial, administration and similar services to a number of funds incorporated outside the United States of America whose assets were invested with Madoff Securities.
Based on information provided by Madoff Securities, as at 30 November 2008, the aggregate net asset value of these funds which would include principal amounts invested and unrealised gains was US$8.4 billion.
Proceedings concerning Madoff and Madoff Securities have already been issued in various jurisdictions against numerous defendants and HSBC expects further proceedings to be brought, including by the Madoff Securities trustee.
Various HSBC group companies have been named as defendants in suits in the United States anticipated to seek class action status and cases in the Commercial List of the Irish courts.
All of the cases where HSBC group companies are named as a defendant are at a very early stage.
HSBC considers that it has good defences to these claims and will continue to defend them vigorously.
HSBC is unable reliably to estimate the liability, if any, that might arise as a result of such claims.
Various HSBC group companies have also received requests for information from various regulatory authorities in connection with the alleged fraud by Madoff.
HSBC group companies are co-operating with these requests for information.
These actions apart HSBC is party to legal actions in a number of jurisdictions including the UK, Hong Kong and the US arising out of its normal business operation.
HSBC considers that none of the actions is material, and none is expected to result in a significant adverse effect on the financial position of HSBC, either individually or in the aggregate.
Management believes that adequate provisions have been made in respect of the litigation arising out of its normal business operations.
HSBC has not disclosed any contingent liability associated with these legal actions because it is not practical to do so.
43 Related party transactions Related parties of the Group and HSBC Holdings include subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and postemployment benefit plans for HSBC employees, Key Management Personnel, close family members of Key Management Personnel and entities which are controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced, or for which significant voting power is held, by Key Management Personnel or their close family members.
Key Management Personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of HSBC Holdings, being the Directors and Group Managing Directors of HSBC Holdings.
Particulars of transactions with related parties, disclosed pursuant to the requirements of IAS 24, are shown below.
The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest amounts outstanding during the year in the table below is considered to be the most meaningful information to represent the amount of the transactions and the amount of outstanding balances during the year.
The above transactions were made in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with persons of a similar standing or, where applicable, with other employees.
The transactions did not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavourable features.
Shareholdings, options and other securities of Directors and other Key Management Personnel At 31 December 2008 2007 000s 000s Number of options held over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares made under employee share plans..................................................................................................................................... 943 36 Number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares held beneficially and non-beneficially....................... 16,733 12,358 Number of HSBC Holdings preference shares held beneficially and non-beneficially................... 8 8 Number of HSBC Holdings 8.125% Perpetual Subordinated Capital Securities held beneficially and non-beneficially.................................................................................................. 21 17,705 12,402 445 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Notes 43 and 44 Transactions with other related parties of HSBC Associates and joint ventures The Group provides certain banking and financial services to associates and joint ventures, including loans, overdrafts, interest and non-interest bearing deposits and current accounts.
Details of the interests in associates and joint ventures are given in Note 21.
The above outstanding balances arose from the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties.
Post-employment benefit plans At 31 December 2008, US$3.5 billion 2007: US$4.1 billion of HSBC post-employment benefit plan assets were under management by HSBC companies.
Fees of US$26 million 2007: US$42 million were earned by HSBC companies for these management services provided to its post-employment benefit plans.
HSBCs post-employment benefit plans had placed deposits of US$430 million 2007: US$506 million with its banking subsidiaries, on which interest payable to the schemes amounted to US$55 million 2007: US$40 million.
HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme entered into swap transactions with HSBC as part of the management of the inflation and interest rate sensitivity of its liabilities.
At 31 December 2008, the gross notional value of the swaps was US$17.7 billion 2007: US$21.2 billion, the swaps had a positive fair value of US$1.8 billion 2007: positive fair value of US$248 million to the scheme and HSBC had delivered collateral of US$2.4 billion 2007: US$759 million to the scheme in respect of these swaps, on which HSBC earned interest amounting to US$59 million 2007: US$15 million.
All swaps were executed at prevailing market rates and within standard market bid offer spreads.
In order to satisfy diversification requirements, there are special collateral provisions for the swap transactions between HSBC and the scheme.
The collateral agreement stipulates that the scheme never posts collateral to HSBC.
Collateral is posted to the scheme by HSBC at an amount that provides the Trustee with a high level of confidence that would be sufficient to replace the swaps in the event of default by HSBC Bank plc.
With the exception of the special collateral arrangements detailed above, all other aspects of the swap transactions between HSBC and the scheme are on substantially the same terms as comparable transactions with third-party counterparties.
HSBC International Staff Retirements Benefits Scheme entered into swap transactions with HSBC to manage the inflation and interest rate sensitivity of the liabilities and selected assets.
At 31 December 2008, the gross notional value of the swaps was US$1.5 billion 2007: US$1.7 billion, and the swaps had a net positive fair value of US$388 million to the scheme 2007: US$63 million.
