HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Balance sheet Movement in 2008 Average balance sheet and NII Derivative businesses are managed within Average balance sheet and net interest market risk limits, and as a consequence the value of income derivative liabilities broadly matched the value of Average balances and related interest are shown for derivative assets.
the domestic operations of HSBCs principal A decline of 22 per cent in debt securities in commercial banks by geographic region.
Other issue was driven by the US as maturing debt operations comprise the operations of the principal securities did not need replacing as the funding Commercial Banking and consumer finance entities requirements of the consumer finance business outside their domestic markets and all other banking declined as its balance sheet contracted.
There was operations, including investment banking balances also a reduction in debt securities in issue in line and transactions.
with the decrease in holdings of asset-backed Average balances are based on daily averages securities.
for the principal areas of HSBCs banking activities Liabilities under insurance contracts increased with monthly or less frequent averages used by 10 per cent, largely due to new business sales in elsewhere.
Hong Kong, France and the UK, partly offset by Balances and transactions with fellow reduced liabilities on unit-linked policies.
subsidiaries are reported gross in the principal Other liabilities rose by 50 per cent due to the Commercial Banking and consumer finance entities consolidation of the CNAV funds described above.
within Other interest-earning assets and Other interest-bearing liabilities as appropriate and the Equity elimination entries are included within Other operations in those two categories.
Total shareholders equity declined by 19 per cent, which mainly arose from a decline in the availableNet interest margin numbers are calculated for-sale reserve.
The continuing market turmoil led by dividing net interest income as reported in the to falls in the market values of assets held in HSBCs income statement by the average interest-earning available-for-sale portfolio.
These declines mainly assets from which interest income is reported represented market illiquidity rather than impairment within the Net interest income line of the income of the assets concerned, but they nonetheless reduced statement.
Interest income and interest expense the value of the available-for-sale reserve from a arising from trading assets and liabilities and the positive reserve of US$0.9 billion to a negative funding thereof is included within Net trading reserve of US$20.6 billion.
income in the income statement.
