Third-party sponsored SPEs Other off-balance sheet arrangements and commitments Through standby liquidity facility commitments, HSBC has exposure to third-party sponsored SIVs, Financial guarantees, letters of credit and conduits and securitisations under normal banking similar undertakings arrangements on standard market terms.
These Note 40 on the Financial Statements describes exposures are quantified below.
various types of guarantees and discloses the maximum potential future payments under such HSBCs commitments under liquidity facilities to arrangements.
Credit risk associated with all forms third-party SIVs, conduits and securitisations of guarantees is assessed in the same manner as Commitfor on-balance sheet credit advances and, where ments Drawn necessary, provisions for assessed impairment are US$bn US$bn included in Other provisions.
Third-party conduits............ 1.1 0.1 Commitments to lend Third-party securitisations... 0.6 0.1 Undrawn credit lines are disclosed in Note 40 on 1.7 0.2 the Financial Statements.
The majority by value of At 31 December 2007 undrawn credit lines arise from open to buy lines Third-party SIVs.................. 0.3 Third-party conduits............ 4.4 0.4 on personal credit cards, advised overdraft limits Third-party securitisations... 0.5 and other pre-approved loan products, and mortgage offers awaiting customer acceptance.
5.2 0.4 HSBC generally has the right to change or terminate any conditions of a personal customers Other exposures to third-party SIVs, conduits and overdraft, credit card or other credit line upon securitisations where a liquidity facility has been notification to the customer.
In respect of corporate provided commitments to lend, in most cases HSBCs At 31 December position will be protected through restrictions on 2008 2007 access to funding in the event of material adverse US$bn US$bn change.
Derivative assets.................. 0.2 Leveraged finance transactions Loan commitments in respect of leveraged finance transactions are accounted for as derivatives where it is HSBCs intention to sell the loan after origination.
Further information is provided on page 160.
