HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Residual value risk Operational risk Legal risk Pension risk Residual value risk the effective implementation of the Groups Unaudited operational risk management framework.
A significant part of a lessors return from operating In each of HSBCs subsidiaries, business leases is dependent upon its management of residual managers are responsible for maintaining an value risk.
This arises from operating lease acceptable level of internal control, commensurate transactions to the extent that the values recovered with the scale and nature of operations.
They are from disposing of leased assets or re-letting them at responsible for identifying and assessing risks, the end of the lease terms the residual values designing controls and monitoring the effectiveness differ from those projected at the inception of the of these controls.
The operational risk management leases.
The business regularly monitors residual framework helps managers to fulfil these value exposure by reviewing the recoverability of responsibilities by defining a standard risk the residual value projected at lease inception.
This assessment methodology and providing a tool for the entails considering the potential of re-letting of systematic reporting of operational loss data.
operating lease assets and their projected disposal A centralised database is used to record the proceeds at the end of their lease terms.
Provision is results of the operational risk management process.
made to the extent that the carrying values of leased Operational risk self-assessments are input and assets are impaired through residual values not being maintained by the business unit.
To ensure that fully recoverable.
operational risk losses are consistently reported and The net book value of equipment leased to monitored at Group level, all Group companies are customers on operating leases by the Group includes required to report individual losses when the net loss projected residual values at the end of current lease is expected to exceed US$10,000.
terms, to be recovered through re-letting or disposal Further details of the HSBC approach to in the following periods: Operational Risk Management can be found in the Capital and Risk Management Interim Pillar 3 Residual values Disclosures 2008.
Legal risk falls within the definition of operational risk and includes Total exposure......................... 2,246 3,003 contractual risk, dispute risk, legislative risk and non-contractual rights risk.
Operational risk Unaudited Contractual risk is the risk that the rights and or obligations of an HSBC company within a Operational risk is the risk of loss arising through contractual relationship are defective.
fraud, unauthorised activities, error, omission, inefficiency, systems failure or from external events.
Dispute risk is the risk that an HSBC company It is inherent to every business organisation and is subject to when it is involved in or managing covers a wide spectrum of issues.
The terms error, a potential or actual dispute.
omission and inefficiency include process Legislative risk is the risk that an HSBC failures, systems machine failures and human error.
company fails to adhere to the laws of the The objective of HSBCs operational risk jurisdictions in which it operates.
management is to manage and control operational Non-contractual rights risk is the risk that an risk in a cost effective manner within targeted levels HSBC companys assets are not properly owned of operational risk consistent with the Groups risk or are infringed by others, or an HSBC company appetite, as defined by the Group Management infringes another partys rights.
HSBC has a global legal function to assist A formal governance structure provides management in controlling legal risk.
The function oversight over the management of operational risk.
provides legal advice and support in managing A Global Operational Risk and Control Committee, claims against HSBC companies, as well as in which reports to the Risk Management Meeting, respect of non-routine debt recoveries or other meets quarterly to discuss key risk issues and review 252
