HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Notes 1 and 2 of IFRIC 17 to have a significant effect on HSBCs consolidated financial statements or the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers IFRIC 18 was issued on 29 January 2009 and is required to be applied prospectively to transfers of assets from customers received on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRIC 18 clarifies the requirements of IFRSs for agreements in which an entity receives from a customer an item of property, plant, and equipment that the entity must then use either to connect the customer to a network or to provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services such as a supply of electricity, gas or water.
HSBC does not expect adoption of IFRIC 18 to have an effect on HSBCs consolidated financial statements or the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies a Interest income and expense Interest income and expense for all financial instruments except for those classified as held for trading or designated at fair value other than debt securities issued by HSBC and derivatives managed in conjunction with such debt securities issued are recognised in Interest income and Interest expense in the income statement using the effective interest method.
The effective interest method is a way of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or a financial liability or groups of financial assets or financial liabilities and of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts or payments through the expected life of the financial instrument or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability.
When calculating the effective interest rate, HSBC estimates cash flows considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument but not future credit losses.
The calculation includes all amounts paid or received by HSBC that are an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument, including transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts.
Interest on impaired financial assets is recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
b Non-interest income Fee income is earned from a diverse range of services provided by HSBC to its customers.
Fee income is accounted for as follows: income earned on the execution of a significant act is recognised as revenue when the act is completed for example, fees arising from negotiating, or participating in the negotiation of, a transaction for a third-party, such as the arrangement for the acquisition of shares or other securities : income earned from the provision of services is recognised as revenue as the services are provided for example, asset management, portfolio and other management advisory and service fees : and income which forms an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument is recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate for example, certain loan commitment fees and recorded in Interest income Note 2a.
Net trading income comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading, together with related interest income, expense and dividends.
Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value includes all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss.
Interest income and expense and dividend income arising on these financial instruments are also included in Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value, except for interest arising from debt securities issued, and derivatives managed in conjunction with those debt securities, which is recognised in Interest expense.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
This is the ex-dividend date for equity securities.
344 c Segment reporting HSBCs segments are organised into five geographical regions, Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, North America and Latin America, and four customer groups: Personal Financial Services: Commercial Banking: Global Banking and Markets: and Private Banking.
The main items reported in the Other segment are certain property activities, unallocated investment activities, centrally held investment companies and HSBCs holding company and financing operations.
The Other segment also includes gains and losses on the disposal of certain significant subsidiaries or business units.
Segment income and expenses include transfers between geographical regions and transfers between customer groups.
These transfers are conducted on arms length terms and conditions.
In HSBCs segmental analysis of the income statement by customer groups and global businesses, net trading income comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities classified as held for trading, together with third-party and intra-segment interest income and interest expense, and dividends received: in the consolidated income statement, intra-segment interest income and expense are eliminated.
d Determination of fair value All financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value.
In the normal course of business, the fair value of a financial instrument on initial recognition is the transaction price that is, the fair value of the consideration given or received.
In certain circumstances, however, the fair value will be based on other observable current market transactions in the same instrument, without modification or repackaging, or on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets, such as interest rate yield curves, option volatilities and currency rates.
When such evidence exists, HSBC recognises a trading gain or loss on inception of the financial instrument.
When unobservable market data have a significant impact on the valuation of financial instruments, the entire initial difference in fair value indicated by the valuation model from the transaction price is not recognised immediately in the income statement but is recognised over the life of the transaction on an appropriate basis, or when the inputs become observable, or the transaction matures or is closed out, or when HSBC enters into an offsetting transaction.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in active markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices for liabilities issued.
When independent prices are not available, fair values are determined by using valuation techniques which refer to observable market data.
These include comparison with similar instruments where market observable prices exist, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
Fair values of financial instruments may be determined in whole or in part using valuation techniques based on assumptions that are not supported by prices from current market transactions or observable market data, where current prices or observable market data are not available.
Factors such as bid-offer spread, credit profile and model uncertainty are taken into account, as appropriate, when fair values are calculated using valuation techniques.
Valuation techniques incorporate assumptions that other market participants would use in their valuations, including assumptions about interest rate yield curves, exchange rates, volatilities, and prepayment and default rates.
Where a portfolio of financial instruments has quoted prices in an active market, the fair value of the instruments are calculated as the product of the number of units and quoted price and no block discounts are made.
If the fair value of a financial asset measured at fair value becomes negative, it is recorded as a financial liability until its fair value becomes positive, at which time it is recorded as a financial asset.
The fair values of financial liabilities are measured using quoted market prices where available, or using valuation techniques.
These fair values include market participants assessments of the appropriate credit spread to apply to HSBCs liabilities.
The amount of change during the period, and cumulatively, in the fair value of designated financial liabilities and loans and advances that is attributable to changes in their credit spread is determined as the amount of change in the fair value that is not attributable to changes in market conditions that give rise to market risk.
345 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 e Reclassification of financial assets Non-derivative financial assets other than those designated at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition may be reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category in particular circumstances: financial assets that would have met the definition of loans and receivables at initial recognition if the financial asset had not been required to be classified as held for trading may be reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category if there is the intention and ability to hold the financial asset for the foreseeable future or until maturity: and financial assets except financial assets that would have met the definition of loans and receivables may be reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category and into another category in rare circumstances.
When a financial asset is reclassified as described in the above circumstances, the financial asset is reclassified at its fair value on the date of reclassification.
Any gain or loss already recognised in the income statement is not reversed.
The fair value of the financial asset on the date of reclassification becomes its new cost or amortised cost, as applicable.
f Loans and advances to banks and customers Loans and advances to banks and customers include loans and advances originated by HSBC which are not classified either as held for trading or designated at fair value.
Loans and advances are recognised when cash is advanced to borrowers.
They are derecognised when either borrowers repay their obligations, or the loans are sold or written off, or substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred.
They are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less impairment losses.
Where loans and advances are hedged by derivatives designated and qualifying as fair value hedges, the carrying value of the loans and advances so hedged includes a fair value adjustment for the hedged risk only.
For certain leveraged finance and syndicated lending activities, HSBC may commit to underwrite loans on fixed contractual terms for specified periods of time, where the drawdown of the loan is contingent upon certain future events outside the control of HSBC.
Where the loan arising from the lending commitment is expected to be held for trading, the commitment to lend is recorded as a trading derivative and measured at fair value through profit or loss.
On drawdown, the loan is classified as held for trading and measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Where it is not HSBCs intention to trade the loan, a provision on the loan commitment is only recorded where it is probable that HSBC will incur a loss.
This may occur, for example, where a loss of principal is probable or the interest rate charged on the loan is lower than the cost of funding.
On inception of the loan, the hold portion is recorded at its fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
However, where the initial fair value is lower than the cash amount advanced for example, due to the rate of interest charged on the loan being below the market rate of interest, the write-down is charged to the income statement.
The write-down will be recovered over the life of the loan, through the recognition of interest income using the effective interest rate method, unless the loan becomes impaired.
The write-down is recorded as a reduction to other operating income.
Financial assets which have been reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category into the loans and receivables category are initially recorded at the fair value at the date of reclassification.
The reclassified assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate determined at the date of reclassification.
g Impairment of loans and advances Losses for impaired loans are recognised promptly when there is objective evidence that impairment of a loan or portfolio of loans has occurred.
Impairment allowances are calculated on individual loans and on groups of loans assessed collectively.
Impairment losses are recorded as charges to the income statement.
The carrying amount of impaired loans on the balance sheet is reduced through the use of impairment allowance accounts.
Losses expected from future events are not recognised.
346 Individually assessed loans and advances For all loans that are considered individually significant, HSBC assesses on a case-by-case basis at each balance sheet date whether there is any objective evidence that a loan is impaired.
For those loans where objective evidence of impairment exists, impairment losses are determined considering the following factors: HSBCs aggregate exposure to the customer: the viability of the customers business model and their capacity to trade successfully out of financial difficulties and generate sufficient cash flow to service debt obligations: the amount and timing of expected receipts and recoveries: the likely dividend available on liquidation or bankruptcy: the extent of other creditors commitments ranking ahead of, or pari passu with, HSBC and the likelihood of other creditors continuing to support the company: the complexity of determining the aggregate amount and ranking of all creditor claims and the extent to which legal and insurance uncertainties are evident: the realisable value of security or other credit mitigants and likelihood of successful repossession: the likely deduction of any costs involved in recovery of amounts outstanding: the ability of the borrower to obtain, and make payments in, the currency of the loan if not denominated in local currency: and when available, the secondary market price of the debt.
Impairment losses are calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows of a loan at its original effective interest rate, and comparing the resultant present value with the loans current carrying amount.
Collectively assessed loans and advances Impairment is assessed on a collective basis in two circumstances: to cover losses which have been incurred but have not yet been identified on loans subject to individual assessment: and for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant.
Incurred but not yet identified impairment Individually assessed loans for which no evidence of loss has been specifically identified on an individual basis are grouped together according to their credit risk characteristics for the purpose of calculating an estimated collective loss.
This reflects impairment losses that HSBC has incurred as a result of events occurring before the balance sheet date, which HSBC is not able to identify on an individual loan basis, and that can be reliably estimated.
These losses will only be individually identified in the future.
As soon as information becomes available which identifies losses on individual loans within the group, those loans are removed from the group and assessed on an individual basis for impairment.
The collective impairment allowance is determined after taking into account: historical loss experience in portfolios of similar credit risk characteristics for example, by industry sector, loan grade or product : the estimated period between impairment occurring and the loss being identified and evidenced by the establishment of an appropriate allowance against the individual loan: and managements experienced judgement as to whether current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual level of inherent losses at the balance sheet date is likely to be greater or less than that suggested by historical experience.
The period between a loss occurring and its identification is estimated by local management for each identified portfolio.
347 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 Homogeneous groups of loans and advances Statistical methods are used to determine impairment losses on a collective basis for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant, because individual loan assessment is impracticable.
Losses in these groups of loans are recorded on an individual basis when individual loans are written off, at which point they are removed from the group.
Two alternative methods are used to calculate allowances on a collective basis: When appropriate empirical information is available, HSBC utilises roll rate methodology.
This methodology employs statistical analyses of historical data and experience of delinquency and default to estimate the amount of loans that will eventually be written off as a result of the events occurring before the balance sheet date which HSBC is not able to identify on an individual loan basis, and that can be reliably estimated.
Under this methodology, loans are grouped into ranges according to the number of days past due, and statistical analysis is used to estimate the likelihood that loans in each range will progress through the various stages of delinquency and ultimately prove irrecoverable.
The estimated loss is the difference between the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate of the portfolio, and the carrying amount of the portfolio.
Current economic conditions are also evaluated when calculating the appropriate level of allowance required to cover inherent loss.
In certain highly developed markets, sophisticated models also take into account behavioural and account management trends as revealed in, for example, bankruptcy and rescheduling statistics.
In other cases, when the portfolio size is small or when information is insufficient or not reliable enough to adopt a roll rate methodology, HSBC adopts a formulaic approach which allocates progressively higher percentage loss rates the longer a customers loan is overdue.
Loss rates are based on historical experience.
In normal circumstances, historical experience provides the most objective and relevant information from which to assess inherent loss within each portfolio.
In certain circumstances, historical loss experience provides less relevant information about the inherent loss in a given portfolio at the balance sheet date, for example, where there have been changes in economic, regulatory or behavioural conditions, such that the most recent trends in the portfolio risk factors are not fully reflected in the statistical models.
These additional portfolio risk factors may include recent loan portfolio growth and product mix, unemployment rates, bankruptcy trends, geographic concentrations, loan product features such as the ability of borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans where reset interest rates give rise to increases in interest charges, economic conditions such as national and local trends in housing markets and interest rates, portfolio seasoning, account management policies and practices, current levels of write-offs, changes in laws and regulations and other items which can affect customer payment patterns on outstanding loans, such as natural disasters.
These risk factors, where relevant, are taken into account when calculating the appropriate level of impairment allowances by adjusting the impairment allowances derived solely from historical loss experience.
Roll rates, loss rates and the expected timing of future recoveries are regularly benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure they remain appropriate.
Write-off of loans and advances A loan and the related impairment allowance account is normally written off, either partially or in full, when there is no realistic prospect of recovery of the principal amount and, for a collateralised loan, when the proceeds from realising the security have been received.
Reversals of impairment If the amount of an impairment loss decreases in a subsequent period, and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the excess is written back by reducing the loan impairment allowance account accordingly.
The write-back is recognised in the income statement.
Reclassified loans and advances Where financial assets have been reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category to the loans and receivables category, the effective interest rate determined at the date of reclassification is used to calculate any impairment losses.
348 Following reclassification, where there is a subsequent increase in the estimates of future cash receipts as a result of increased recoverability of those cash receipts, the effect of that increase is recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate from the date of change in the estimate rather than as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset at the date of change in the estimate.
Assets acquired in exchange for loans Non-financial assets acquired in exchange for loans as part of an orderly realisation are recorded as assets held for sale and reported in Other assets.
The asset acquired is recorded at the lower of its fair value less costs to sell and the carrying amount of the loan net of impairment allowance at the date of exchange.
No depreciation is charged in respect of assets held for sale.
Any subsequent write-down of the acquired asset to fair value less costs to sell is recognised in the income statement, in Other operating income.
Any subsequent increase in the fair value less costs to sell, to the extent this does not exceed the cumulative write-down, is also recognised in Other operating income, together with any realised gains or losses on disposal.
Renegotiated loans Loans subject to collective impairment assessment whose terms have been renegotiated are no longer considered past due, but are treated as new loans for measurement purposes once the minimum number of payments required under the new arrangements have been received.
Loans subject to individual impairment assessment, whose terms have been renegotiated, are subject to ongoing review to determine whether they remain impaired or should be considered past due.
The carrying amount of loans that have been classified as renegotiated retain this classification until maturity or derecognition.
h Trading assets and trading liabilities Treasury bills, debt securities, equity shares, loans, deposits, debt securities in issue, and short positions in securities are classified as held for trading if they have been acquired principally for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term, or they form part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is evidence of a recent pattern of short-term profit-taking.
These financial assets or financial liabilities are recognised on trade date, when HSBC enters into contractual arrangements with counterparties to purchase or sell the financial instruments, and are normally derecognised when either sold assets or extinguished liabilities.
Measurement is initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken to the income statement.
Subsequently, their fair values are remeasured, and all gains and losses from changes therein are recognised in the income statement in Net trading income as they arise.
i Financial instruments designated at fair value Financial instruments, other than those held for trading, are classified in this category if they meet one or more of the criteria set out below, and are so designated by management.
HSBC may designate financial instruments at fair value when the designation: eliminates or significantly reduces measurement or recognition inconsistencies that would otherwise arise from measuring financial assets or financial liabilities, or recognising gains and losses on them, on different bases.
Under this criterion, the main classes of financial instruments designated by HSBC are: Long-term debt issues.
The interest payable on certain fixed rate long-term debt securities issued has been matched with the interest on receive fixed pay variable interest rate swaps as part of a documented interest rate risk management strategy.
An accounting mismatch would arise if the debt securities issued were accounted for at amortised cost, because the related derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in the fair value recognised in the income statement.
By designating the long-term debt at fair value, the movement in the fair value of the long-term debt will also be recognised in the income statement.
Financial assets and financial liabilities under investment contracts.
Liabilities to customers under linked contracts are determined based on the fair value of the assets held in the linked funds, with changes recognised in the income statement.
If no designation was made for the assets relating to the customer liabilities they would be classified as available-for-sale and the changes in fair value would be recorded directly in equity.
These financial instruments are managed on a fair value basis and management information is also prepared on this basis.
Designation at fair value of the financial assets and liabilities 349 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 under investment contracts allows the changes in fair values to be recorded in the income statement and presented in the same line.
applies to groups of financial assets, financial liabilities or combinations thereof that are managed, and their performance evaluated, on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy, and where information about the groups of financial instruments is reported to management on that basis.
Under this criterion, certain financial assets held to meet liabilities under insurance contracts are the main class of financial instrument so designated.
HSBC has documented risk management and investment strategies designed to manage such assets at fair value, taking into consideration the relationship of assets to liabilities in a way that mitigates market risks.
Reports are provided to management on the fair value of the assets.
Fair value measurement is also consistent with the regulatory reporting requirements under the appropriate regulations for these insurance operations.
relates to financial instruments containing one or more embedded derivatives that significantly modify the cash flows resulting from those financial instruments, including certain debt issues and debt securities held.
The fair value designation, once made, is irrevocable.
Designated financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when HSBC enters into the contractual provisions of the arrangements with counterparties, which is generally on trade date, and are normally derecognised when sold assets or extinguished liabilities.
Measurement is initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken directly to the income statement.
Subsequently, the fair values are remeasured, and gains and losses from changes therein are recognised in Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value.
j Financial investments Treasury bills, debt securities and equity shares intended to be held on a continuing basis, other than those designated at fair value are classified as available-for-sale or held-to-maturity.
Financial investments are recognised on trade date when HSBC enters into contractual arrangements with counterparties to purchase securities, and are normally derecognised when either the securities are sold or the borrowers repay their obligations.
i Available-for-sale financial assets are initially measured at fair value plus direct and incremental transaction costs.
They are subsequently remeasured at fair value, and changes therein are recognised in equity in the Available-for-sale fair value reserve until the financial assets are either sold or become impaired.
When available-for-sale financial assets are sold, cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in equity are recognised in the income statement as Gains less losses from financial investments.
Interest income is recognised on available-for-sale debt securities using the effective interest rate, calculated over the assets expected life.
Premiums and or discounts arising on the purchase of dated investment securities are included in the calculation of their effective interest rates.
Dividends are recognised in the income statement when the right to receive payment has been established.
At each balance sheet date an assessment is made of whether there is any objective evidence of impairment in the value of a financial asset.
Impairment losses are recognised if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset a loss event and that loss event or events has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset that can be reliably estimated.
If the available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, the difference between the financial assets acquisition cost net of any principal repayments and amortisation and the current fair value, less any previous impairment loss recognised in the income statement, is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses for available-for-sale debt securities are recognised within Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions in the income statement and impairment losses for available-for-sale equity securities are recognised within Gains less losses from financial investments in the income statement.
Once an impairment loss has been recognised on an available-for-sale financial asset, the subsequent accounting treatment for changes in the fair value of that asset differs depending on the nature of the available-for-sale financial asset concerned: 350 For an available-for-sale debt security, a subsequent decline in the fair value of the instrument is recognised in the income statement when there is further objective evidence of impairment as a result of further decreases in the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset.
Where there is no further objective evidence of impairment, the decline in the fair value of the financial asset is recognised directly in equity.
If the fair value of a debt security increases in a subsequent period, and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement to the extent of the increase in fair value: For an available-for-sale equity security, all subsequent increases in the fair value of the instrument are treated as a revaluation and are recognised directly in equity.
Impairment losses recognised on the equity security are not reversed through the income statement.
Subsequent decreases in the fair value of the available-for-sale equity security are recognised in the income statement, to the extent that further cumulative impairment losses have been incurred in relation to the acquisition cost of the equity security.
ii Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that HSBC positively intends, and is able, to hold until maturity.
Held-to-maturity investments are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment losses.
k Sale and repurchase agreements including stock lending and borrowing When securities are sold subject to a commitment to repurchase them at a predetermined price repos, they remain on the balance sheet and a liability is recorded in respect of the consideration received.
Securities purchased under commitments to sell reverse repos are not recognised on the balance sheet and the consideration paid is recorded in Loans and advances to banks or Loans and advances to customers as appropriate.
The difference between the sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and recognised over the life of the agreement.
Securities lending and borrowing transactions are generally secured, with collateral taking the form of securities or cash advanced or received.
The transfer of securities to counterparties under these agreements is not normally reflected on the balance sheet.
Cash collateral advanced or received is recorded as an asset or a liability respectively.
Securities borrowed are not recognised on the balance sheet.
If they are sold on to third parties, an obligation to return the securities is recorded as a trading liability and measured at fair value, and any gains or losses are included in Net trading income.
l Derivatives and hedge accounting Derivatives are recognised initially, and are subsequently remeasured, at fair value.
Fair values of exchangetraded derivatives are obtained from quoted market prices.
Fair values of over-the-counter derivatives are obtained using valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow models and option pricing models.
Derivatives may be embedded in other financial instruments, for example, a convertible bond with an embedded conversion option.
Embedded derivatives are treated as separate derivatives when their economic characteristics and risks are not clearly and closely related to those of the host contract: the terms of the embedded derivative would meet the definition of a stand-alone derivative if they were contained in a separate contract: and the combined contract is not held for trading or designated at fair value.
These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes therein recognised in the income statement.
Derivatives are classified as assets when their fair value is positive, or as liabilities when their fair value is negative.
Derivative assets and liabilities arising from different transactions are only offset if the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right of offset exists, and the parties intend to settle the cash flows on a net basis.
The method of recognising fair value gains and losses depends on whether derivatives are held for trading or are designated as hedging instruments, and if the latter, the nature of the risks being hedged.
All gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives held for trading are recognised in the income statement.
When derivatives are designated as hedges, HSBC classifies them as either: i hedges of the change in fair value of 351 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 recognised assets or liabilities or firm commitments fair value hedges : ii hedges of the variability in highly probable future cash flows attributable to a recognised asset or liability, or a forecast transaction cash flow hedges : or iii a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedges.
Hedge accounting is applied to derivatives designated as hedging instruments in a fair value, cash flow or net investment hedge provided certain criteria are met.
Hedge accounting At the inception of a hedging relationship, HSBC documents the relationship between the hedging instruments and the hedged items, its risk management objective and its strategy for undertaking the hedge.
HSBC also requires a documented assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether or not the hedging instruments, primarily derivatives, that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting the changes attributable to the hedged risks in the fair values or cash flows of the hedged items.
Interest on designated qualifying hedges is included in Net interest income.
Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the income statement, along with changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or group thereof that are attributable to the hedged risk.
If a hedging relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the cumulative adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item is amortised to the income statement based on a recalculated effective interest rate over the residual period to maturity, unless the hedged item has been derecognised, in which case, it is released to the income statement immediately.
Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in equity within the Cash flow hedging reserve.
Any gain or loss in fair value relating to an ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement in the periods in which the hedged item will affect profit or loss.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity until the forecast transaction is eventually recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Net investment hedge Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in a similar way to cash flow hedges.
A gain or loss on the effective portion of the hedging instrument is recognised in equity: a gain or loss on the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement on the disposal of the foreign operation.
Hedge effectiveness testing To qualify for hedge accounting, HSBC requires that at the inception of the hedge and throughout its life, each hedge must be expected to be highly effective prospective effectiveness, and demonstrate actual effectiveness retrospective effectiveness on an ongoing basis.
The documentation of each hedging relationship sets out how the effectiveness of the hedge is assessed.
The method an HSBC entity adopts for assessing hedge effectiveness will depend on its risk management strategy.
For prospective effectiveness, the hedging instrument must be expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk during the period for which the hedge is 352 designated.
For actual effectiveness to be achieved, the changes in fair value or cash flows must offset each other in the range of 80 per cent to 125 per cent.
Hedge ineffectiveness is recognised in the income statement in Net trading income.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting All gains and losses from changes in the fair values of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
These gains and losses are reported in Net trading income, except where derivatives are managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value other than derivatives managed in conjunction with debt securities issued by the Group, in which case gains and losses are reported in Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value.
The interest on derivatives managed in conjunction with debt securities issued by the Group which are designated at fair value is recognised in Interest expense.
All other gains and losses on these derivatives are reported in Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value.
m Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual right to receive cash flows from the assets has expired: or when HSBC has transferred its contractual right to receive the cash flows of the financial assets, and either: substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred: or HSBC has neither retained nor transferred substantially all the risks and rewards, but has not retained control.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished, that is when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires.
n Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
o Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures HSBC classifies investments in entities which it controls as subsidiaries.
Where HSBC is a party to a contractual arrangement whereby, together with one or more parties, it undertakes an economic activity that is subject to joint control, HSBC classifies its interest in the venture as a joint venture.
HSBC classifies investments in entities over which it has significant influence, and that are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, as associates.
For the purpose of determining this classification, control is considered to be the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
HSBC Holdings investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any impairment losses.
Reversals of impairment losses are recognised in the income statement if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount of the investment.
Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are recognised using the equity method.
Under this method, such investments are initially stated at cost, including attributable goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in HSBCs share of net assets.
Profits on transactions between HSBC and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of HSBCs interest in the respective associates or joint ventures.
Losses are also eliminated to the extent of HSBCs interest in the associates or joint ventures unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
p Goodwill and intangible assets i Goodwill arises on business combinations, including the acquisition of subsidiaries, and on the acquisition of interests in joint ventures and associates, when the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair value of HSBCs share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
If HSBCs interest in the fair 353 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of an acquired business is greater than the cost of acquisition, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Intangible assets are recognised separately from goodwill when they are separable or arise from contractual or other legal rights, and their fair value can be measured reliably.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing, which is undertaken at the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Impairment testing is performed at least annually, and whenever there is an indication that the cash-generating unit may be impaired, by comparing the recoverable amount from a cash-generating unit with the carrying amount of its net assets, including attributable goodwill.
The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value less cost to sell, and its value in use.
Value in use is the present value of the expected future cash flows from a cash-generating unit.
If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is charged to the income statement.
Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill on acquisitions of interests in joint ventures and associates is included in Interests in associates and joint ventures.
At the date of disposal of a business, attributable goodwill is included in HSBCs share of net assets in the calculation of the gain or loss on disposal.
ii Intangible assets include the present value of in-force long-term insurance business, computer software, trade names, mortgage servicing rights, customer lists, core deposit relationships, credit card customer relationships and merchant or other loan relationships.
Intangible assets are subject to impairment review if there are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life, or are not yet ready for use, are tested for impairment annually.
This impairment test may be performed at any time during the year, provided it is performed at the same time every year.
An intangible asset recognised during the current period is tested before the end of the current year.
Intangible assets that have a finite useful life, except for the value of in-force long-term insurance business, are stated at cost less amortisation and accumulated impairment losses and are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Estimated useful life is the lower of legal duration and expected useful life.
The amortisation of mortgage servicing rights is included within Net fee income.
For the accounting policy governing the present value of in-force long-term insurance business see Note 2y.
354 Equipment, fixtures and fittings including equipment on operating leases where HSBC is the lessor are stated at cost less any impairment losses and depreciation calculated on a straight-line basis to write-off the assets over their useful lives, which run to a maximum of 35 years but are generally between 5 years and 20 years.
Property, plant and equipment is subject to an impairment review if there are events or changes in circumstances which indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
HSBC holds certain properties as investments to earn rentals or for capital appreciation, or both.
Investment properties are included in the balance sheet at fair value with changes therein recognised in the income statement in the period of change.
Fair values are determined by independent professional valuers who apply recognised valuation techniques.
r Finance and operating leases Agreements which transfer to counterparties substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to the ownership of assets, but not necessarily legal title, are classified as finance leases.
When HSBC is a lessor under finance leases the amounts due under the leases, after deduction of unearned charges, are included in Loans and advances to banks or Loans and advances to customers as appropriate.
The finance income receivable is recognised in Net interest income over the periods of the leases so as to give a constant rate of return on the net investment in the leases.
When HSBC is a lessee under finance leases, the leased assets are capitalised and included in Property, plant and equipment and the corresponding liability to the lessor is included in Other liabilities.
A finance lease and its corresponding liability are recognised initially at the fair value of the asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Finance charges payable are recognised in Net interest income over the period of the lease based on the interest rate implicit in the lease so as to give a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
When acting as lessor, HSBC includes the assets subject to operating leases in Property, plant and equipment and accounts for them accordingly.
Impairment losses are recognised to the extent that residual values are not fully recoverable and the carrying value of the assets is thereby impaired.
When HSBC is the lessee, leased assets are not recognised on the balance sheet.
Rentals payable and receivable under operating leases are accounted for on a straight-line basis over the periods of the leases and are included in General and administrative expenses and Other operating income, respectively.
s Income tax Income tax comprises current tax and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable profit for the year, calculated using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset when HSBC intends to settle on a net basis and the legal right to offset exists.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and the amounts attributed to such assets and liabilities for tax purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the assets will be realised or the liabilities settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they arise in the same tax reporting group and relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority, and when HSBC has a legal right to offset.
Deferred tax relating to actuarial gains and losses on post-employment benefits is recognised directly in equity.
Deferred tax relating to fair value remeasurement of available-for-sale investments and cash flow hedging instruments which are charged or credited directly to equity, is also credited or charged directly to equity and is subsequently recognised in the income statement when the deferred fair value gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
355 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 t Pension and other post-employment benefits HSBC operates a number of pension and other post-employment benefit plans throughout the world.
These plans include both defined benefit and defined contribution plans and various other post-employment benefits such as post-employment healthcare.
Payments to defined contribution plans and state-managed retirement benefit plans, where HSBCs obligations under the plans are equivalent to a defined contribution plan, are charged as an expense as they fall due.
The defined benefit pension costs and the present value of defined benefit obligations are calculated at the reporting date by the schemes actuaries using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
The net charge to the income statement mainly comprises the current service cost, plus the unwinding of the discount rate on plan liabilities, less the expected return on plan assets, and is presented in operating expenses.
Past service costs are charged immediately to the income statement to the extent that the benefits have vested, and are otherwise recognised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits vest.
Actuarial gains and losses comprise experience adjustments the effects of differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred, as well as the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in Equity and presented in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense in the period in which they arise.
The defined benefit liability recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of defined benefit obligations adjusted for unrecognised past service costs and reduced by the fair value of plan assets.
Any net defined benefit surplus is limited to unrecognised past service costs plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The costs of obligations arising from other defined post-employment benefits plans, such as defined benefit health-care plans, are accounted for on the same basis as defined benefit pension plans.
u Share-based payments The cost of share-based payment arrangements with employees is measured by reference to the fair value of equity instruments on the date they are granted, and recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding credit to the Share-based payment reserve.
The fair value of equity instruments that are made available immediately, with no vesting period attached to the award, are expensed immediately.
Fair value is determined by using appropriate valuation models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the equity instruments were granted.
Market performance conditions are taken into account when estimating the fair value of equity instruments at the date of grant, so that an award is treated as vesting irrespective of whether the market performance condition is satisfied, provided all other conditions are satisfied.
Vesting conditions, other than market performance conditions, are not taken into account in the initial estimate of the fair value at the grant date.
They are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments included in the measurement of the transaction, so that the amount recognised for services received as consideration for the equity instruments granted shall be based on the number of equity instruments that eventually vest.
On a cumulative basis, no expense is recognised for equity instruments that do not vest because of a failure to satisfy non-market performance or service conditions.
Where an award has been modified, as a minimum, the expense of the original award continues to be recognised as if it had not been modified.
Where the effect of a modification is to increase the fair value of an award or increase the number of equity instruments, the incremental fair value of the award or incremental fair value of the extra equity instruments is recognised in addition to the expense of the original grant, measured at the date of modification, over the modified vesting period.
A cancellation that occurs during the vesting period is treated as an acceleration of vesting, and recognised immediately for the amount that would otherwise have been recognised for services over the vesting period.
Where HSBC Holdings enters into share-based payment arrangements involving employees of subsidiaries, the cost is recognised in Investment in subsidiaries and credited to the Share-based payment reserve over the vesting period.
Where the cost is recharged to the subsidiary, it is recognised as an inter-company debtor, not as an investment in subsidiary.
Where a subsidiary has funded the share-based payment arrangement, Investment in subsidiaries is reduced by the fair value of equity instruments.
356 v Foreign currencies Items included in the financial statements of each of HSBCs entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC are presented in US dollars, which is the Groups presentation currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional currency at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any resulting exchange differences are included in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the rate of exchange at the date of the initial transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the rate of exchange at the date the fair value was determined.
Any exchange component of a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised directly in equity if the gain or loss on the non-monetary item is recognised directly in equity.
Any exchange component of a gain or loss on a nonmonetary item is recognised directly in the income statement if the gain or loss on the non-monetary item is recognised in the income statement.
In the consolidated financial statements, the assets, including related goodwill where applicable, and liabilities of branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose functional currency is not US dollars, are translated into the Groups presentation currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The results of branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose functional currency is not US dollars are translated into US dollars at the average rates of exchange for the reporting period.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of opening foreign currency net investments, and exchange differences arising from retranslation of the result for the reporting period from the average rate to the exchange rate prevailing at the period end, are recognised in equity in the Foreign exchange reserve.
Exchange differences on a monetary item that is part of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in the income statement of the separate financial statements.
In consolidated financial statements these exchange differences are recognised in the Foreign exchange reserve in shareholders equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, exchange differences relating thereto and previously recognised in reserves are recognised in the income statement.
w Provisions Provisions are recognised when it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle a current legal or constructive obligation, which has arisen as a result of past events, and for which a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Contingent liabilities, which include certain guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security, are possible obligations that arise from past events whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence, or non-occurrence, of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of HSBC: or are present obligations that have arisen from past events but are not recognised because it is not probable that settlement will require the outflow of economic benefits, or because the amount of the obligations cannot be reliably measured.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed unless the probability of settlement is remote.
x Financial guarantee contracts Liabilities under financial guarantee contracts which are not classified as insurance contracts are recorded initially at their fair value, which is generally the fee received or receivable.
Subsequently, financial guarantee liabilities are measured at the higher of the initial fair value, less cumulative amortisation, and the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligations.
HSBC Holdings has issued financial guarantees to other Group entities.
Where it has previously asserted explicitly that it regards such contracts as insurance contracts and has used accounting applicable to insurance contracts, HSBC may elect to account for guarantees as an insurance contract.
This election is made on a contract by contract basis, but the election for each contract is irrevocable.
Where these guarantees have been classified as insurance contracts, they are measured and recognised as insurance liabilities.
357 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 y Insurance contracts Through its insurance subsidiaries, HSBC issues contracts to customers that contain insurance risk, financial risk or a combination thereof.
A contract under which HSBC accepts significant insurance risk from another party by agreeing to compensate that party on the occurrence of a specified uncertain future event, is classified as an insurance contract.
An insurance contract may also transfer financial risk, but is accounted for as an insurance contract if the insurance risk is significant.
While investment contracts with discretionary participation features are financial instruments, they continue to be treated as insurance contracts as permitted by IFRS 4.
Insurance contracts are accounted for as follows: Premiums Gross insurance premiums for non-life insurance business are reported as income over the term of the insurance contracts based on the proportion of risks borne during the accounting period.
The unearned premium the proportion of the business underwritten in the accounting year relating to the period of risk after the balance sheet date is calculated on a daily or monthly pro rata basis.
Premiums for life insurance contracts are accounted for when receivable, except in unit-linked insurance contracts where premiums are accounted for when liabilities are established.
Reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the premiums for the direct insurance contracts to which they relate.
Claims and reinsurance recoveries Gross insurance claims for non-life insurance contracts include paid claims and movements in outstanding claims liabilities.
Gross insurance claims for life insurance contracts reflect the total cost of claims arising during the year, including claim handling costs and any policyholder bonuses allocated in anticipation of a bonus declaration.
Claims arising during the year include maturities, surrenders and death claims.
Maturity claims are recognised when due for payment.
Surrenders are recognised when paid or at an earlier date on which, following notification, the policy ceases to be included within the calculation of the related insurance liabilities.
Death claims are recognised when notified.
Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
Liabilities under insurance contracts Outstanding claims liabilities for non-life insurance contracts are based on the estimated ultimate cost of all claims incurred but not settled at the balance sheet date, whether reported or not, together with related claimhandling costs and a reduction for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries.
Liabilities for claims incurred but not reported are made on an estimated basis, using appropriate statistical techniques.
Liabilities under non-linked life insurance contracts are calculated by each life insurance operation based on local actuarial principles.
Liabilities under unit-linked life insurance contracts are at least equivalent to the surrender or transfer value which is calculated by reference to the value of the relevant underlying funds or indices.
A liability adequacy test is carried out on insurance liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of the liabilities is sufficient in the light of current estimates of future cash flows.
When performing the liability adequacy test, all contractual cash flows are discounted and compared with the carrying value of the liability.
When a shortfall is identified it is charged immediately to the income statement.
Present value of in-force long-term insurance business The value placed on insurance contracts that are classified as long-term insurance business and are in force at the balance sheet date is recognised as an asset.
358 The present value of in-force PVIF long-term insurance business is determined by discounting future cash flows expected to emerge from business currently in force using appropriate assumptions in assessing factors such as future mortality, lapse rates and levels of expenses and a risk discount rate that reflects the risk premium attributable to the respective long-term insurance business.
Movements in the PVIF long-term insurance business are included in Other operating income on a gross of tax basis.
Future profit participation Where contracts provide discretionary profit participation benefits to policyholders, insurance liabilities include the net unrealised gains recognised in connection with the assets backing the contracts to the extent that policyholders will benefit from such gains.
This benefit may arise from the contractual terms, regulation, or past distribution policy.
The corresponding movement in liability is recognised in equity or in the income statement in the same proportion to the net unrealised gains on the assets.
In the case of net unrealised losses, a deferred participating asset is recognised only to the extent that its recoverability is highly probable.
Investment contracts Customer liabilities under linked and certain non-linked investment contracts and the corresponding financial assets are designated at fair value.
Movements in fair value are recognised in Net income from financial investments designated at fair value.
Premiums receivable and amounts withdrawn are accounted for as increases or decreases in the liability recorded in respect of investment contracts.
Liabilities under linked investment contracts are at least equivalent to the surrender or transfer value which is calculated by reference to the value of the relevant underlying funds or indices.
Investment management fees receivable are recognised in the income statement over the period of the provision of the investment management services, in Net fee income.
The incremental costs directly related to the acquisition of new investment contracts or renewing existing investment contracts are deferred and amortised over the period during which the investment management services are provided.
z Debt securities issued and deposits by customers and banks Financial liabilities are recognised when HSBC enters into the contractual provisions of the arrangements with counterparties, which is generally on trade date, and initially measured at fair value, which is normally the consideration received net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
Subsequent measurement of financial liabilities, other than those measured at fair value through profit or loss and financial guarantees, is at amortised cost, using the effective interest method to amortise the difference between proceeds net of directly attributable transaction costs and the redemption amount over the expected life of the debt.
aa Share capital Shares are classified as equity when there is no contractual obligation to transfer cash or other financial assets.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of equity instruments are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds, net of tax.
HSBC Holdings plc shares held by HSBC are recognised in Total shareholders equity as a deduction from retained earnings until they are cancelled.
When such shares are subsequently sold, reissued or otherwise disposed of, any consideration received is included in Total shareholders equity, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and related income tax effects.
ab Cash and cash equivalents For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value.
Such investments are normally those with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition, and include cash and balances at central banks, treasury bills and other eligible bills, loans and advances to banks, items in the course of collection from or in transmission to other banks, and certificates of deposit.
