Group financial statements go online at www.
com annualreport2008 subsidiary of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc. pursuant 30 Contingent liabilities and to which Reynolds American Inc. was formed the Business financial commitments Combination.
As part of the Business Combination, B&W The Group is subject to contingencies pursuant to contributed to RJRT all of the assets and liabilities of its US requirements that it complies with relevant laws, regulations cigarette and tobacco business, subject to specified exceptions, and standards.
Failure to comply could result in restrictions in exchange for a 42 per cent equity ownership interest in in operations, damages, fines, increased tax, increased cost Reynolds American.
As a result of the Business Combination: of compliance, reputational damage, or other sanctions.
B&W discontinued the active conduct of any tobacco These matters are inherently difficult to quantify.
business in the United States: In cases where the Group has an obligation as a result of B&W contributed to RJRT all of its assets other than the a past event existing at the balance sheet date, it is probable capital stock of certain subsidiaries engaged in non-US that an outflow of economic resources will be required to businesses and other limited categories of assets: settle the obligation and the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated, a provision would be recognised based RJRT assumed all liabilities of B&W except liabilities to the on best estimates and management judgment.
extent relating to businesses and assets not contributed by B&W to RJRT and other limited categories of liabilities and There are, however, contingent liabilities in respect of contributed subsidiaries or otherwise to the extent related litigation, taxes in some countries and guarantees for which to B&Ws tobacco business as conducted in the US on or no provisions were made.
prior to 30 July 2004: and The Group has exposures in respect of the payment or RJRT agreed to indemnify B&W and each of its associates recovery of a number of taxes.
The Group is and has been other than Reynolds American and its subsidiaries against, subject to a number of tax audits covering amongst others, among other matters, all losses, liabilities, damages, expenses, excise tax, value added taxes, sales taxes, corporate taxes, judgments, attorneys fees, etc.
to the extent relating to withholding taxes and payroll taxes.
or arising from such assumed liabilities or the assets The estimated costs of known tax obligations have been contributed by B&W to RJRT the RJRT Indemnification.
provided in these accounts in accordance with the Groups The scope of the RJRT Indemnification includes all expenses accounting policies.
In some countries, tax law requires that and contingent liabilities in connection with litigation to full or part payment of disputed tax assessments be made the extent relating to or arising from B&Ws US tobacco pending resolution of the dispute.
To the extent that such business as conducted on or prior to 30 July 2004, including payments exceed the estimated obligation, they would not smoking and health tobacco litigation, whether the litigation be recognised as an expense.
In some cases disputes are is commenced before or after 30 July 2004 the Tobacco proceeding to litigation.
While the amounts that may be payable or receivable could Pursuant to the terms of the RJRT Indemnification, RJRT be material to the results or cash flows of the Group in the is liable for any possible judgments, the posting of appeal period in which they are recognised, the Board does not bonds or security, and all other expenses of and responsibility expect these amounts to have a material effect on the for managing the defence of the Tobacco Litigation.
has assumed control of the defence of the Tobacco Litigation Product liability litigation involving B&W, to which RJRT is also a party in most but Group companies, notably Brown & Williamson Holdings, Inc. not all of the same cases.
Accordingly, RJRT uses or plans formerly Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation B&W to use the same law firm or firms to represent both B&W as well as other leading cigarette manufacturers, are and RJRT in any single or similar case except in certain defendants, principally in the United States, in a number limited circumstances as RJRTs interests are typically aligned of product liability cases.
In a number of these cases, the with B&Ws interests, as RJRT has substantial experience in amounts of compensatory and punitive damages sought managing recognised external legal counsel in defending the are significant.
Tobacco Litigation, and external counsel have independent professional responsibilities to represent the interests of Indemnity B&W.
In addition, in accordance with the terms of the RJRT In 2004, B&W completed the combination of the assets, Indemnification, associates of B&W have retained control of liabilities and operations of its US tobacco business with the defence in certain Tobacco Litigation cases with respect R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company RJRT, a wholly-owned to which such associates are entitled to indemnification.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 167 Directors report and accounts Notes on the accounts continued Summary judgment motions are pending and discovery 30 Contingent liabilities and remains ongoing.
A trial date for this case has been set for financial commitments continued 11 January 2010.
US litigation b Class actions The total number of US product liability cases pending at At 31 December 2008, B&W was named as a defendant in 31 December 2008 involving B&W and or other Group some 10 2007: 12 separate actions attempting to assert companies was approximately 3,251 2007: approximately claims on behalf of classes of persons allegedly injured or 3,323.
At 31 December 2008, UK-based Group companies financially impacted through smoking or where classes of have been named as co-defendants in 6 of those cases tobacco claimants have been certified.
In 2008, no US cases were tried against B&W.
or remain certified and the possibility of class-based liability No US cases involving the UK-based Group companies were is eventually established, it is likely that individual trials will tried in 2008.
No product liability case in which a UK-based still be necessary to resolve any actual claims.
Class-action Group company is a defendant is currently scheduled for suits have been filed in a number of US state and federal trial in 2009. courts against individual cigarette manufacturers and their Since many of these pending cases seek unspecified damages, parent corporations, alleging that the use of terms such as it is not possible to quantify the total amounts being claimed, lights and ultralights constitutes unfair and deceptive but the aggregate amounts involved in such litigation are trade practices.
The cases fall into 4 broad categories: A class action complaint Schwab was filed in the US District a Medical reimbursement cases Court for the Eastern District of New York on 11 May 2004 These civil actions seek to recover amounts spent by against several defendants, including B&W and certain government entities and other third party providers on UK-based Group companies.
The complaint challenges health care and welfare costs claimed to result from illnesses defendants practices with respect to the marketing, associated with smoking.
Although B&W continues to be advertising, promotion and sale of light cigarettes, and a defendant in health care cost recovery cases involving seeks billions of dollars in economic damages.
The district plaintiffs such as hospitals and Native American tribes court granted plaintiffs motion for class certification on see below, the vast majority of such cases have been 25 September 2006.
On 3 April 2008, the Schwab class dismissed on legal grounds.
was decertified by the Second Circuit Court of Appeals.
The mandate returning the case to the district court was Further, on 23 November 1998, the major US cigarette issued on 29 May 2008. manufacturers including B&W and RJRT and the attorneys general of 46 US states and 5 US territories executed Other types of class-action suits assert claims on behalf the Master Settlement Agreement MSA, which settled of classes of individuals who claim to be addicted, injured, recoupment lawsuits that had been brought by these states or at greater risk of injury by the use of tobacco or exposure and territories.
Under the terms of the MSA, the settling to environmental tobacco smoke, or the legal survivors of cigarette manufacturers agreed, among other things, to such persons.
pay approximately US$246 billion to the settling states In Engle Florida, filed on 5 May 1994, a jury rendered and territories and to 4 states that had reached separate a punitive damages verdict in favour of the Florida class settlements of their recoupment actions over 25 years, and against all defendants, with US$17.6 billion in punitive agreed to various restrictions on US tobacco advertising and damages assessed against B&W.
After various post-trial and marketing.
The MSA includes a credit for any amounts paid appellate proceedings, the Florida Supreme Court, among by participating tobacco manufacturers in subsequent suits other things, affirmed an intermediate appellate courts brought by the states political subdivisions.
decision to decertify the class, vacated the jurys punitive At 31 December 2008, a reimbursement suit was pending damages award and permitted putative Engle class members against B&W by an Indian tribe in Indian tribal court in South to file individual lawsuits against the Engle defendants within Dakota, and another reimbursement case City of St. Louis 1 year of the Courts decision subsequently extended to was pending against B&W and a UK-based company.
As of 31 December 2008, B&W has been City of St. Louis, plaintiffs consist of more than 60 public served individually in approximately 54 Engle progeny cases and non-profit hospitals in Missouri seeking reimbursement pending in Florida courts.
These cases include approximately of past and future alleged smoking related health care costs.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 168 Directors report and accounts Group financial statements go online at www.
com annualreport2008 In the first trial of an individual Engle class member Lukacs, c Individual cases the jury, on 11 June 2002, awarded plaintiff US$37.5 million Approximately 3,238 cases were pending against B&W in compensatory damages B&Ws share: US$8.4 million.
at 31 December 2008 2007: approximately 3,307 filed After post-trial proceedings, on 12 November 2008, the by or on behalf of individuals in which it is contended that trial court entered judgment for plaintiff in the amount of diseases or deaths have been caused by cigarette smoking US$24,835,000 plus interest, for which defendants were or by exposure to environmental tobacco smoke ETS.
Defendants filed an appeal from Of these cases, approximately: a 2,620 are ETS cases the judgment on 1 December 2008. brought by flight attendants who were members of a class action Broin that was settled on terms that allow In a case filed on 24 May 1996 by a class of Louisiana compensatory but not punitive damages claims by class smokers Scott in Louisiana state court against several members: b 490 of the individual cases against B&W are US cigarette manufacturers including B&W, the jury, on cases brought in consolidated proceedings in West Virginia: 28 July 2003, returned a verdict in defendants favour on c 54 are Engle progeny cases that have been served upon a medical monitoring claim, but made findings against B&W, and d 74 are cases filed by other individuals.
defendants with respect to claims relating to fraud, conspiracy, marketing to minors and smoking cessation.
There are 3 verdicts against B&W that remained subject On 21 May 2004, the jury returned a verdict in the amount to appeal in 2008: of US$591 million on the classs claim for a smoking cessation In December 2003 and January 2004, a New York state court programme.
On 7 February 2007, an intermediate appellate jury Frankson awarded an individual plaintiff compensatory court, among other things, affirmed class certification and and punitive damages against B&W and 2 industry upheld the smoking cessation programme for certain organisations.
After post-trial and appellate proceedings, the smokers who began smoking before 1988, but reduced trial court entered judgment on 26 June 2007 in the amounts the US$591 million jury award by US$312 million and of US$175,000 in compensatory damages and US$5 million rejected any award of prejudgment interest.
On 21 July 2008, in punitive damages.
Defendants subsequently appealed from the trial court entered judgment in the case, finding that the judgment to an intermediate appellate court.
Appellate defendants were jointly and severally liable for funding the oral argument was heard on 26 January 2009.
A decision cost of a court-supervised smoking cessation programme, and remains pending.
ordering defendants to deposit approximately US$264 million together with interest from 30 June 2004 into a trust for the In February 2005, a Missouri state court jury Smith awarded funding of the programme.
On 15 December 2008, the trial an individual plaintiff US$500,000 in compensatory damages court entered an order permitting defendants to take a and US$20 million in punitive damages against B&W.
On suspensive appeal, thereby staying enforcement of the 16 December 2008, an intermediate Missouri appellate court judgment pending the resolution of defendants appeal.
affirmed the compensatory damages award, but remanded the case for a new trial on issues relating to punitive damages.
A class action complaint Cleary was filed in state court in B&W filed a motion for rehearing on 31 December 2008, Chicago, Illinois on 3 June 1998 against several defendants, which was denied on 27 January 2009. including B&W, B.
A. T Industries p. l. c. Industries and British American Tobacco Investments Limited Investments.
On 18 March 2005, a New York state court jury Rose Industries was dismissed on jurisdictional grounds by an awarded an individual plaintiff US$1.7 million in compensatory intermediate appellate court on 17 March 2000.
On 10 April 2008, an intermediate amended complaint, filed on 8 April 2005, alleges, among state appellate court reversed the judgment and ordered that other things, that defendants fraudulently concealed facts the case be dismissed.
On 16 December 2008, the New York regarding the addictive nature of nicotine and that certain Court of Appeals affirmed the intermediate appellate courts US defendants marketed tobacco products to underage ruling.
Plaintiff filed a motion to reargue to the Court of consumers, and seeks, among other remedies, disgorgement Appeals on 14 January 2009, and defendants filed a response of profits.
On 11 July 2006, plaintiffs filed a renewed motion on 9 February 2009.
A decision on this motion remains pending.
for class certification, which remains pending.
The case is currently in class certification discovery.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 169 Directors report and accounts Notes on the accounts continued the AWA Entities, obtaining full indemnities from AWA Entities 30 Contingent liabilities and for past and future environmental claims.
Disputes between financial commitments continued NCR, Appleton, the AWA Entities, and Industries as to the d Other claims indemnities given and received under the purchase The Flintkote Company Flintkote, a US asbestos production agreement in 1978 have been the subject of arbitrations in and sales company, was included in the acquisition of Genstar 1998 and 2006.
Under the terms of the arbitration awards, Corporation by Imasco Limited in 1986 and became a Group Industries and Appleton the AWA Entities have an obligation subsidiary following the restructuring of Imasco Limited now to share the costs of environmental claims with NCR, but Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited Imperial, the Groups Industries has never been required to pay any sums in this operating company in Canada in 2000.
Soon after this regard because Appleton and the AWA Entities have paid acquisition, and as part of the acquisition plan, Genstar began any sums demanded to date, and the authorities have not to sell most of its assets, including the non-asbestos related identified Industries or BATUS as PRPs.
It is believed that all operations and subsidiaries of Flintkote.
The liquidation of future environmental liabilities will continue to be met directly Flintkote assets produced cash proceeds and, having obtained by Appleton and the AWA Entities by self-funding or insurance advice from the law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell LLP and other cover and no demand will be made upon Industries.
However, advice that sufficient assets would remain to satisfy liabilities, the risk for Industries in respect of the Fox River clean up is Flintkote and Imasco authorised the payment of a dividend that Appleton and the AWA Entities will exhaust insurance of US$170.2 million in 1986 and a further dividend of policies beyond that which Industries believes Appleton US$355 million in 1987.
In 2003, Imperial divested Flintkote and the AWA Entities are entitled to under the demerger and then, in 2004, Flintkote filed for bankruptcy in the United agreement, potentially leaving Industries with no insurance States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware.
In 2006, to call on should it be called on to contribute.
There is Flintkote, representatives of both the present and future currently a tolling agreement in place with regard to the asbestos claimants, and individual asbestos claimants were differing interpretations of the provisions of the demerger permitted by the bankruptcy court to file a complaint against agreement in this regard, which preserves the parties rights Imperial and numerous other defendants including Sullivan to litigate the issue even though the limitation period has & Cromwell LLP, for the recovery of the dividends and other expired.
Given the likelihood that the case will not be compensation under various legal and equitable theories.
resolved for some time, Appleton, the AWA Entities, Sullivan & Cromwell LLP and Imperial have since filed cross Industries and BATUS have agreed to extend the tolling complaints against each other.
The parties are presently agreement until 31 December 2009. engaged in case management discussions to establish the UK-based Group companies scope and manner of discovery in this case.
At 31 December 2008, Industries was a defendant in the US In Wisconsin, the authorities have identified potentially in 1 class action, the Schwab case mentioned previously.
responsible parties PRPs to fund the clean up of the Fox In that case, Industries was substituted for British American River, Wisconsin.
The pollution was caused by the alleged Tobacco p. l. c. as a defendant.
Investments had been served discharges of toxic material from paper mills operating in 1 reimbursement case City of St. Louis, the Department close to the river.
The cost of the clean up work has been of Justice case see below, 1 anti-trust case Daric Smith, estimated to be in the order of US$600 million.
Among the see below, 2 class actions Cleary and Schwab and 2 PRPs are NCR Corporation NCR and Appleton Papers Inc. individual actions Eiser and Perry.
Appleton who may be liable for a proportion of the clean Conduct-based claims up costs.
In 1978, Industries purchased what was then NCRs On 22 September 1999, the US Department of Justice Appleton Papers Division from NCR.
In 1978, Industries also brought an action in the US District Court for the District incorporated a US entity by the name of BATUS, Inc. BATUS, of Columbia against various industry members, including which in 1980 became the holding company for all of B&W, Industries and Investments.
Industries was dismissed Industries US subsidiaries, including Appleton.
As the holding for lack of personal jurisdiction on 28 September 2000.
The company, BATUS obtained insurance policies for itself and its Government sought, among other relief, the disgorgement subsidiaries that included coverage for certain environmental of US$280 billion in past profits pursuant to the federal liabilities.
Industries BATUS spun off the Appleton business Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organisations Act RICO in 1990 to Wiggins Teape Appleton p. l. c. and Wiggins Teape statute.
On 4 February 2005, the DC Circuit Court of Appeals Appleton Holdings p. l. c. now known as Arjo Wiggins ruled that the Government could not claim disgorgement Appleton Ltd. and Arjo Wiggins US Holdings Ltd. collectively, of profits under RICO.
On 17 August 2006, the district court British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 170 Directors report and accounts Group financial statements go online at www.
com annualreport2008 issued its final judgment in favour of the Government, and an additional plaintiff by ACTbr, a private anti-tobacco group.
against certain defendants, including B&W and Investments.
On 17 October 2008, the court issued an order to plaintiffs The court also ordered a wide array of injunctive relief, to respond to certain of defendants procedural requests, including a ban on the use of lights and other similar as well as certain defences and objections.
Investments compliance with the court-ordered Canada remedies may result in potentially significant financial The government of the Province of British Columbia brought exposure.
Defendants, including B&W and Investments, a claim pursuant to the provisions of the Tobacco Damages filed notices of appeal to the DC Circuit Court of Appeals and Health Care Costs Recovery Act 2000 the Recovery Act on 11 September 2006, and thereafter obtained a stay of against domestic and foreign manufacturers seeking to the district courts judgment.
Appellate briefing has been recover plaintiffs costs of health care benefits.
Investments, completed and oral argument took place on 14 October Industries, Imperial and certain former Rothmans Group 2008.
companies are named as defendants.
The constitutionality In the Daric Smith case, purchasers of cigarettes in the State of the Recovery Act was challenged by certain defendants.
of Kansas brought a class action in the Kansas State Court Ultimately, in September 2005, the Supreme Court of Canada against B&W, Investments and certain other tobacco declared the Recovery Act to be constitutionally valid.
The companies seeking injunctive relief, treble damages, interest defendants joined the federal Government of Canada as a and costs.
The allegations are that defendants participated defendant and the federal Government, in turn, filed a motion in a conspiracy to fix or maintain the price of cigarettes sold to strike the claim.
The Supreme Court of British Columbia in the US, including the State of Kansas, in violation of the found in favour of the federal Government, dismissing it from Kansas Restraint of Trade Act.
Defendants subsequent appeal of that order has been consolidated with a similar appeal in the Knight case Product liability outside the United States see below.
The appeals are scheduled to be heard in the At 31 December 2008, active claims against the Groups week of 1 June 2009.
Non-Canadian defendants, including companies existed in 18 2007: 18 markets outside the Investments and Industries, sought to dismiss the action on US but the only markets with more than 5 active claims the ground that the British Columbia court lacked personal were Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Italy, Nigeria, and jurisdiction over them.
These motions were subsequently the Republic of Ireland.
There has been new litigation in denied, and defendants appeal of these decisions was Bulgaria and Israel, where class actions have been filed, ultimately unsuccessful.
The claim is now set down for trial and in Russia where the Ministry of Health commenced a in September 2011. consumer protection claim.
In 2008, judgments in favour of the defence were rendered in individual smoking and In another Canadian recoupment case, the government of health cases in Finland, the Netherlands and Chile.
The the Province of New Brunswick has brought a health care following is a description of the major developments since recoupment claim against domestic and foreign tobacco the last report in cases pending outside the United States manufacturers, pursuant to the provisions of the Recovery that fall into 4 broad categories: Act passed in that Province in June 2006.
The Company, Investments, Industries, Imperial and certain former Rothmans a Medical reimbursement cases Group companies have all been named as defendants.
The Argentina government filed a statement of claim on 13 March 2008.
ATLA Argentine Tort Law Association in June 2007 instigated The Group defendants were served with the Notice of Action a lawsuit stating damages and medical recoupment claims and Statement of Claim on 2 June 2008. as against Nobleza-Piccardo S. A. I. C. y F. Nobleza Piccardo.
ATLA sought to have certain public entities joined as plaintiffs.
Colombia On 23 December 2008, the court allowed intervention by the British American Tobacco South America Limited was served national government and declined to accept in full certain on 18 July 2008 in a public interest action that has a recoupment defences asserting legal invalidity of the claims.
The case was brought by 2 Colombian citizens alleging that the defendant violated numerous collective Piccardo will appeal this ruling.
interests and rights of the Colombian population.
In addition Brazil to equitable and injunctive relief, plaintiffs are seeking The So Paulo State Public Prosecutor instigated a lawsuit 25 per cent of smoking-related health care costs since in July 2007 comprising product liability, ETS and medical the time that the Group has been operating in Colombia.
On 7 October 2008, Souza Cruz S. A. Souza Cruz filed an objection to a motion to intervene as Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 171 Directors report and accounts Notes on the accounts continued objections.
On 8 July 2008, the High Court of Gombe State 30 Contingent liabilities and ruled on the preliminary objections filed by the Company, financial commitments continued Investments and other defendants in the case, setting aside Israel service on all defendants and striking out the claim.
Plaintiff Clalit, 1 of the main health care providers in Israel, filed has since filed a renewed action and the court has granted a recoupment claim on 28 September 1998 in the Tel Aviv plaintiffs application for leave to issue and serve a writ of District Court against several local and international tobacco summons outside the jurisdiction.
In Kano and Oyo States, companies.
Clalit seeks NIS7.6 billion approximately proceedings are currently concerned with determining the US$1.9 billion in damages and injunctive relief.
Following parties preliminary objections to jurisdiction.
Matters in the a series of procedural negotiations between the parties, the Akwa Ibom and Federal claims stand adjourned for reports Group companies currently named as defendants in the action on service.
A. T U. K. and Export Limited BATUKE Saudi Arabia and Investments.
In 2003, the Group company defendants There are reports that the Saudi Ministry of Health is pursuing except for Industries, and others, filed motions to strike the a health care recoupment action in the Riyadh General Court Statement of Claim on the ground that Clalits claims are against a number of tobacco distributors and agents.
At remote and derivative, and therefore cannot be brought as 31 December 2008, no Group company had been served with direct claims.
On 16 February 2004, the District Court judge process.
The Ministry of Health is reportedly seeking damages issued a consolidated decision denying defendants motions.
of at least 127 billion Saudi Riyals.
In addition, a separate Defendants have appealed this decision to the Supreme recoupment action has reportedly been filed by the King Faisal Court.
The outcome of the Supreme Court ruling on Specialist Hospital in the Riyadh General Court, naming BAT defendants appeals is still awaited.
Additionally, in 2002, Company Limited as a defendant.
At 31 December 2008, Industries filed a motion to set aside service as improper no Group company had been served with process.
due to its lack of contacts with the jurisdiction.
That motion was denied in or about November 2005, and Industries Spain subsequently filed a motion seeking leave to appeal that The Junta fide Andaluca, together with the Health Service of decision to the Supreme Court.
A decision on Industries Andaluca hereinafter Junta filed, on 20 September 2007, motion is stayed pending a ruling on the other defendants a recoupment action against the Spanish State and 6 tobacco motions to strike.
companies, including British American Tobacco Espaa, S. A.
The Junta seeks the reimbursement of 1,769,964 Nigeria allegedly spent in health care costs for treating patients In 2007, 4 Nigerian states Lagos, Kano, Gombe and Oyo with smoking-related diseases.
The Court upheld the States and the federal government of Nigeria filed separate health preliminary objections to the claim and dismissed the claim care recoupment actions, each seeking the equivalent of on 14 November 2007.
On 4 March 2008, the Junta filed billions of US dollars for costs allegedly incurred by the state a notice of its intention to appeal that decision.
The Juntas and federal governments in treating smoking-related illnesses.
On 23 July 2008, BAT Espaa was British American Tobacco Nigeria Limited, the Company served with notice of a new claim by the Junta asserting and Investments have all been named as defendants, and essentially the same claims as in the prior action.
have filed preliminary objections in each of the pending cases.
In 2008, a health care recoupment claim was also filed in b Class actions Akwa Ibom state.
The Company and British American Tobacco Brazil Nigeria Limited have been served with notices in that action.
In 1995, a class action was filed by the Association for the A health care recoupment claim has reportedly also been filed Defence of the Health of Smokers ADESF against Souza Cruz in Ogun state.
No Group companies have been served with and other tobacco manufacturers in the So Paulo Lower Civil that claim.
Court alleging that defendants are liable to a class of smokers and former smokers for failing to warn of cigarette addiction.
On 21 February 2008, the initial Lagos action was voluntarily Plaintiffs seek monetary damages and injunctive relief.
The discontinued by plaintiffs and replaced on 13 March 2008 case was stayed in 2004 pending defendants appeal from with a substantially similar action.
British American Tobacco a decision issued by the lower civil court on 7 April 2004.
Nigeria Limited, the Company and Investments have all On 12 November 2008, the So Paulo Court of Appeals been served in the new action and have filed preliminary British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 172 Directors report and accounts Group financial statements go online at www.
com annualreport2008 overturned the lower courts unfavourable decision of 2004, Canada finding that the lower court had failed to provide defendants In the Knight class action in Canada, the Supreme Court of with an opportunity to produce evidence.
The case now British Columbia certified a class of all consumers of cigarettes returns to the lower court for production of evidence and bearing light or mild descriptors since 1974 manufactured a new judgment.
in British Columbia by Imperial.
The British Columbia Court of Appeal affirmed the certification of the class but has limited The Brazilian Association for the Defence of Consumers any potential financial liability to the period from 1997.
This Health Saudecon filed a class action against Souza Cruz is a lights class action in which plaintiff alleges that the in the City of Porto Alegre, Brazil on 3 November 2008. marketing of light and mild cigarettes is deceptive because it Plaintiff purports to represent all Brazilian smokers whom, conveys a false and misleading message that those cigarettes it alleges, are unable to quit smoking and lack access to are less harmful than regular cigarettes.
Plaintiff is seeking an order requiring compensation for amounts spent on light and mild products the named defendants to fund, according to their market and a disgorgement of profits from Imperial.
Imperial joined share, the purchase of cessation treatments for these smokers the federal Government of Canada as a defendant and the over a minimum period of 2 years.
Souza Cruz filed its federal Government, in turn, filed a motion to strike the claim.
Statement of Defence on 26 January 2009.
The court subsequently dismissed the federal Government A consumer association known as ACODE Association from the action.
Imperial appealed that order, and its appeal of Exploited Consumers of the Federal District instigated has been consolidated with a similar appeal in the British an action in essence seeking a court order to stop Souza Columbia recoupment litigation see above.
Hearings are Cruz from marketing cigarettes in Brazil.
In December 2006, scheduled for the week of 1 June 2009. the 4th Chamber of the Federal District Court of Appeals A similar lights and mild class action claim has been filed confirmed a lower court decision that ruled the claim in Newfoundland.
Imperial has filed a third party notice groundless and unlawful.
Plaintiff filed an appeal before against the Federal Government.
The certification hearing the Superior Court of Justice which has been pending final took place in September 2007.
Certification was denied review since May 2007. on 29 December 2008 and Imperial subsequently received The State of Sergipe instigated in 2004 a class action seeking plaintiffs notice for leave to appeal.
compensation for smokers in Sergipe State who purportedly There are currently 2 class actions in Quebec.
On sought to quit smoking.
The lower court denied plaintiffs 21 February 2005, the Quebec Superior Court granted request for early relief and determined that all Brazilian certification.
The court certified 2 classes, which include tobacco companies and ANVISA be ordered to join the case residents of Quebec who suffered from lung, throat and as co-defendants.
Since then all the parties involved have laryngeal cancer or emphysema, and residents who were yet to be served process.
addicted to nicotine at the time the proceedings were filed Bulgaria and who have since remained addicted.
Plaintiffs have served In March 2008, a collective claim was filed in the Sofia a Statement of Claim.
City Court of Bulgaria against 21 defendants, including On 12 May 2008, the Ontario Court of Appeal dismissed British-American Tobacco Polska S. A. British-American plaintiffs appeal in the Ragoonanan class action.
The Tobacco Romania Trading SRL, and House of Prince A S. proposed class action sought to certify as a class all persons Plaintiff seeks recovery of roughly 17,000 Leva approximately who suffered bodily damage or property damage as a result US$12,000 in damages per class member and injunctive of fires commenced by cigarettes that did not automatically relief.
The claim was dismissed twice on procedural extinguish upon being dropped or left unattended.
deficiencies, but re-instated both times on appeal.
On Certification was denied in first instance and leave to appeal 2 December 2008, the Sofia City Court dismissed the was denied in the 12 May 2008 decision.
In summary, the youth advertising claim and required plaintiff to meet court decided that there was no rational relationship between various evidentiary and procedural conditions in order the class definition and the proposed common issues and to proceed with the claim.
that a class action was not a preferable procedure.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 173 Directors report and accounts Notes on the accounts continued Plaintiff can challenge this decision before the Court of Appeal 30 Contingent liabilities and with 10 days of being notified of the decision.
In addition to financial commitments continued Rada, there are 8 smoking and health claims pending against Israel Chiletabacos that have not been decided yet.
In May 2008, 9 smokers of low yield cigarettes filed a Finland class action in Israel, known as Numberg, before the Tel Aviv On 10 October 2008, following a consolidated trial, the District Court against various defendants including the Helsinki District Court dismissed 3 individual smoking Groups Israeli distributor, Globrands Agencies 2007 Limited.
and health actions that were brought against British Plaintiffs allege that since December 2004, defendants have American Tobacco Nordic Oy BAT Nordic, amongst fraudulently marketed and sold low yield cigarettes in Israel, others, and ordered each plaintiff to pay BAT Nordic costs in contravention of what they interpret to be an express ban of125,000.
In December 2008, plaintiffs appealed the on the sale of such products following the prohibition on the District Courts decisions in their entirety but 1 plaintiff, use of lights descriptors, by using methods such as marking Lindroos, has subsequently withdrawn her appeal.
Briefing cigarette packages in a special colour, using descriptors such of the substantive appeals is ongoing.
as slim or super slim, and displaying text that describes the amount of tar and nicotine yields.
In addition to injunctive Ireland and declaratory relief, plaintiffs seek NIS78.5 billion Fifteen individual smoking and health cases are ongoing in approximately US$20.3 billion in monetary damages.
the Republic of Ireland, in which plaintiffs seek compensation for various alleged tobacco-related injuries.
The Group Venezuela defendants involved in these claims are PJ Carroll & Co. Ltd FEVACU Venezuelan Federation of Associations of Users and Rothmans of Pall Mall Ireland Ltd, although both and Consumers instigated a purported class action that was Group companies are not named in every action.
1 case, admitted by the court on 22 October 2008 seeking, among McCormack, was dismissed by judgment perfected on other relief, that defendant be required to fund a trust for the 17 July 2008 but plaintiff has filed a notice of appeal.
treatment of alleged smoking-related diseases.
On 19 January Dismissal motions in 13 other cases are pending the 2009, C. A. Cigarrera Bigott Sucs.
appeared as a third party decision of the Supreme Court in McCormack.
The whose rights may be affected by the proceedings, as provided fifteenth case is currently dormant.
Italy c Individual cases As of 31 December 2008, there were approximately 1,672 Brazil 2007: 3,478 individual lights cases in Italy pending against As of 31 December 2008, there were approximately 310 British American Tobacco Italia S. p. A.
Almost all of the individual cases that remain pending in Brazil against Souza individual lights cases filed in Italy are pending before lower Cruz in which it is contended that the smokers diseases level Justices of the Peace courts.
Because of the type of or deaths were caused by cigarette smoking.
Since 1995, court involved, the maximum possible recovery in damages approximately 530 individual cases have been filed in is1,033.
In 2007, 2,230 lights cases were filed by a single Brazil against Souza Cruz.
Approximately 10 of these cases plaintiffs counsel in the jurisdiction of Pescopagano.
In 2008, have resulted in court decisions favourable to plaintiffs in all of these claims were withdrawn.
As of 31 December 2008, either the civil court or court of appeal, all of which remain 1,026 2007: 950 cases not including the Pescopagano on appeal.
cases have been suspended or dismissed.
There are 38 Canada 2007: 33 individual smoking and health cases pending 3 individual smoking and health cases have been filed before Italian Civil Courts, in which it is contended that in Canada.
Of these, 2 Battaglia and Landry have been in the smokers diseases or deaths were caused by cigarette abeyance since 2004 and 2003 respectively.
There are 3 2007: 2 labour cases for alleged is active and currently at a preliminary stage.
health case Stright has been filed in Nova Scotia but has Netherlands been in abeyance since 2005.
On 17 December 2008, the District Court of Amsterdam Chile dismissed an individual smoking and health action filed On 16 December 2008, the Civil Court of Santiago dismissed in June 2005 by Peter Josef Romer against British American an individual smoking and health action filed by Mr Andres Tobacco The Netherlands B. V. and British American Tobacco Javier Rada Meza against Compania Chilena fide Tabacos S. A.
Manufacturing B. V. Plaintiff has until 18 March 2009 to Chiletabacos and other tobacco manufacturers in 2006. appeal the dismissal.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 174 Directors report and accounts Group financial statements go online at www.
com annualreport2008 d Consumer protection litigation Conclusion Russia While it is impossible to be certain of the outcome of any On 8 September 2008, a consumer fraud action was filed in particular case or of the amount of any possible adverse the Savelovsky District Court of Moscow by the Ministry of verdict, the Group believes that the defences of the Groups Health and Social Development in Russia against OJSC British companies to all these various claims are meritorious on American Tobacco Yava Yava and its retail distributor, CJSC both the law and the facts, and a vigorous defence is being International Tobacco Marketing Services.
The claim seeks a made everywhere.
If an adverse judgment is entered declaration from the court that the use of the words light, against any of the Groups companies, an appeal will be superlight, and 1mg light on cigarette packets of Yavas low made.
Such appeals could require the appellants to post tar cigarettes are misleading and unlawful, and further seeks appeal bonds or substitute security in amounts which the removal of these descriptors.
In November 2008, the could in some cases equal or exceed the amount of the action was dismissed for lack of jurisdiction, but the dismissal judgment.
In any event, with regard to US litigation, the was reversed on appeal.
Grounds are awaited to determine Group has the benefit of the RJRT Indemnification.
At least whether a further appeal can be launched.
In the meantime, in the aggregate, and despite the quality of defences the case file has been returned to the court of first instance available to the Group, it is not impossible that the Groups where a hearing on the merits will be scheduled.
results of operations or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods could be materially affected by the final Other litigation outside the US outcome of any particular litigation.
In July 2008, Imperial entered into a plea of guilty to a violation of a single count of section 240 1 a of the Having regard to all these matters, the Group i does not Canadian Excise Act and paid a fine of Can$200 million.
consider it appropriate to make any provision in respect of Imperial thereafter obtained full immunity from further any pending litigation and ii does not believe that the prosecution and civil proceedings from the federal and ultimate outcome of this litigation will significantly impair all 10 provincial governments in Canada.
Imperial also the Groups financial condition.
entered into a 15-year civil agreement with the federal and Guarantees provincial governments of Canada, under which Imperial, Performance guarantees given to third parties in respect the federal government, the provinces and others will work of Group companies were 1 million 2007: 1 million.
together on initiatives to fight the growth of illegal tobacco products.
The agreement further requires a payment of Can$50 million in 2008 and a percentage of Imperials annual net sales revenue going forward for fifteen years up to a maximum of Can$350 million.
Operating leases Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases comprise leases where payments fall due: 2008 2007 m m Property Within 1 year 77 55 Between 1 and 5 years 150 100 Beyond 5 years 160 147 387 302 Plant and equipment Within 1 year 32 21 Between 1 and 5 years 38 29 70 50 Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 175 Directors report and accounts
