Report of the independent auditors to the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. We have audited the Group financial statements of British We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December financial statements give a true and fair view and whether 2008 which comprise the Group income statement, the Group financial statements have been properly prepared the Group statement of recognised income and expense, in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 the Group balance sheet, the Group cash flow statement, of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether, in the related notes and the Principal subsidiary undertakings our opinion, the information given in the Directors report and the Principal associate undertakings.
These Group is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared under the information given in the Directors report includes that accounting policies set out therein.
specific information presented in the Business review that is cross referred from the Directors report.
We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, we have ended 31 December 2008 and on the information in the not received all the information and explanations we require Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, We review whether the Corporate governance statement including the Group financial statements, in accordance with reflects the Companys compliance with the 9 provisions applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, are set out in Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report the Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the statements, included in the Responsibility of Directors.
Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements control procedures.
and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only We read other information contained in the Annual Report for the Companys members as a body in accordance with and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other financial statements.
The other information comprises only purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume the Business review, the Directors report, the 5 year summary, responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to the Quarterly analyses of profit, the Parent Company financial whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come, statements, and the Shareholder information.
We consider save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 92 Directors report and accounts
