Directors report Responsibility of Directors Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and statements integrity of the Annual Report on www.
com in accordance The following statement sets out the responsibilities of the with the UK legislation governing the preparation and Directors in relation to the financial statements of both the dissemination of financial statements.
Access to the website Group and the Company.
The reports of the independent is available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation auditors for the Group and the Company set out their may be different.
responsibilities in relation to those financial statements.
The Directors consider that they have pursued the actions Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial necessary to meet their responsibilities as set out in this statement.
statements for each financial year which give a true and fair Directors declaration in relation to relevant audit view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as information at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Group and the Company for the financial year.
In preparing Companys auditors, each of the Directors confirms that: those financial statements, the Directors are required to: to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, there is select appropriate accounting policies and apply them no relevant audit information of which the Companys consistently: auditors are unaware: and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable he or she has taken all steps that a Director might reasonably and prudent: be expected to have taken in order to make himself or state whether applicable accounting standards have herself aware of relevant audit information and to establish been followed, subject to any material departures being that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
disclosed and explained: and Directors responsibility statement prepare the financial statements on the going concern The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge and basis, unless they consider that to be inappropriate.
belief that: The applicable accounting standards referred to above are: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with a United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles the applicable accounting standards identified above, give UK GAAP for the Company: and b International Financial a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and profit or loss of the Company and the Group: and and implemented in the UK for the Group.
the Directors report and Business review include a fair The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company review of the development and performance of the business keeps sufficient accounting records to disclose with reasonable and the position of the Group and the Company, together accuracy the financial position of the Company and the with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group financial that they face.
statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article The names of the Directors are listed in this Directors report 4 of the IAS Regulation, and that the Company financial and their details appear on the Board of Directors page.
statements and the Directors Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible Neither the Company nor the Directors accept any liability for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the to any person in relation to this Annual Report except to Company and the Group and, in that context, having proper the extent that such liability could arise under English law.
regard to the establishment of appropriate systems of internal Accordingly, any liability to a person who has demonstrated control with a view to the prevention and detection of fraud reliance on any untrue or misleading statement or omission and other irregularities.
shall be determined in accordance with section 90A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements and to provide the auditors with every opportunity to take The responsibility statement was approved by the Board of whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections the Directors on 25 February 2009 and signed on its behalf by: auditors consider to be appropriate for the purpose of Jan du Plessis Ben Stevens enabling them to give their audit report.
Chairman Finance Director Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 91 Directors report and accounts
