Group financial statements Notes on the accounts In 2008, the Group also updated its accounting policy on 1 Accounting policies intangible assets other than goodwill to address trademarks Basis of Accounting acquired by the Groups subsidiary undertakings as set out below.
The Group accounts have been prepared in accordance with The preparation of the Group accounts requires management International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported the European Union and with those parts of the Companies amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the Act 1985 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial The financial statements have been prepared under the historical statements.
The key estimates and assumptions are set out in cost convention except as described in the accounting policy the accounting policies below, together with the related notes below on financial instruments.
In 2008, the Group has amended its treatment with regard The most significant items include: to the recognition of actuarial gains and losses of retirement the exemptions taken under IFRS1 on the first time adoption benefit schemes under IAS19.
Previously, actuarial gains and of IFRS at 1 January 2004 and, in particular, those relating to losses that arose subsequent to 1 January 2004, the date of goodwill on business combinations and retirement benefit transition to IFRS, were recognised only to the extent that costs which are explained in the accounting policies below: cumulatively they exceeded 10 per cent of the greater of the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the fair the review of asset values, especially goodwill and value of the scheme assets, and that portion was recognised impairment testing.
The key assumptions used in respect in the income statement over the expected average remaining of goodwill and impairment testing are the determination working lives of the employees participating in the plan.
of cash-generating units, the long-term growth rate for Otherwise, the accumulated actuarial gains and losses were cash flow projections and the rate used to discount the not recognised, except where there were unrecognised scheme cash flow projections.
These are described in note 9: surpluses: in such instances the actuarial gains and losses were the estimation of and accounting for retirement benefit recognised as they occurred.
The Group believes that fully costs.
The determination of the carrying value of assets and recognising actuarial gains and losses when they occur results liabilities, as well as the charge for the year, and amounts in a better presentation of the financial statements which recognised in the Statement of recognised income and is more in line with current market practice and expected expense, involves judgements made in conjunction with financial reporting developments thus providing more independent actuaries.
These involve estimates about comparable market information.
uncertain future events based on the environment in In addition, in 2008 the Group adopted IFRIC14 IAS19 different countries, including life expectancy of scheme The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset Minimum Funding members, salary and pension increases, inflation and Requirements and their Interaction early.
The interpretation expected returns on assets, as well as discount rates and clarifies the conditions under which a surplus in a postasset values at the year end.
The assumptions used by the employment benefit scheme can be recognised in the Group and sensitivity analysis are described in note 12: financial statements, as well as setting out the accounting the estimation of amounts to be recognised in respect implications where minimum funding requirements exist.
of taxation and legal matters, and the estimation of other The recognition of this change resulted in a 4 million charge provisions for liabilities and charges are subject to uncertain to reported equity net of tax at 1 January 2008 and a nil future events, may extend over several years and so the million impact on reported equity at 31 December 2008. amount and or timing may differ from current assumptions.
Following the change in accounting policy, the Group now The accounting policy for taxation is explained below and recognises actuarial gains and losses in the period in which the recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities, together they occur, in the Statement of recognised income and with a note of unrecognised amounts, are shown in note 13. expense, together with movements in surplus restrictions, Other provisions for liabilities and charges are as set out in and related deferred taxation.
The accounting policy on contingent liabilities, which income and expense had not previously been required to are not provided for, is set out below and the contingent be presented by the Group.
Comparative periods have liabilities of the Group are explained in note 30: been restated to reflect these changes from 1 January 2004.
These changes are set out in detail in note 12.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 99 Directors report and accounts
