Parent Company financial statements Notes on the accounts Fixed asset investments 1 Accounting policies Fixed asset investments are stated at cost, together with Basis of accounting subsequent capital contributions, less provisions for any The Parent Company financial statements have been impairment in value.
prepared on the going concern basis under the historical Dividends cost convention except as described in the accounting policy Final dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders below on financial instruments and in accordance with the are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the Companies Act 1985 2006 and UK Generally Accepted period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys Accounting Principles.
shareholders, while interim dividend distributions are recognised The Company is a public limited company which is listed in the period in which the dividends are declared and paid.
on the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and Repurchase of share capital domiciled in the UK.
When share capital is repurchased the amount of consideration Cash flow statement paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a The cash flows of the Company are included in the deduction from equity.
Repurchased shares which are not consolidated cash flow statement of British American Tobacco cancelled, or shares purchased for the employee share p. l. c. which is included in this Annual Report.
Consequently, ownership trusts, are classified as treasury shares and presented the Company is exempt under the terms of FRS1 Revised as a deduction from total equity.
from publishing a cash flow statement.
Related parties Foreign currencies The Company has taken advantage of the exemption Transactions arising in currencies other than sterling are under paragraph 3 b FRS8 from disclosing transactions translated at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the with related parties that are part of the British American transaction.
Assets and liabilities expressed in currencies other Tobacco p. l. c. Group.
than sterling are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the Financial instruments end of the financial year.
All exchange differences are taken The financial instrument disclosures of the Company are to the profit and loss account in the year.
included in the Group financial statements which are included Accounting for income in this Annual Report.
Consequently, the Company is exempt Income is included in the profit and loss account when all under paragraph 3C b of FRS25 and 2D b of FRS29 from contractual or other applicable conditions for recognition publishing these financial instrument disclosures.
Provisions are made for bad and doubtful Financial guarantees are recorded at fair value less debts, as appropriate.
Taxation Taxation provided is that chargeable on the profits of the period, together with deferred taxation.
Deferred taxation is provided in full on timing differences between the recognition of gains and losses in the financial statements and their recognition in tax computations.
However, the Company does not discount deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 183 Directors report and accounts
