Group financial statements Notes on the accounts In 2008, the Group also updated its accounting policy on 1 Accounting policies intangible assets other than goodwill to address trademarks Basis of Accounting acquired by the Groups subsidiary undertakings as set out below.
The Group accounts have been prepared in accordance with The preparation of the Group accounts requires management International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported the European Union and with those parts of the Companies amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the Act 1985 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial The financial statements have been prepared under the historical statements.
The key estimates and assumptions are set out in cost convention except as described in the accounting policy the accounting policies below, together with the related notes below on financial instruments.
In 2008, the Group has amended its treatment with regard The most significant items include: to the recognition of actuarial gains and losses of retirement the exemptions taken under IFRS1 on the first time adoption benefit schemes under IAS19.
Previously, actuarial gains and of IFRS at 1 January 2004 and, in particular, those relating to losses that arose subsequent to 1 January 2004, the date of goodwill on business combinations and retirement benefit transition to IFRS, were recognised only to the extent that costs which are explained in the accounting policies below: cumulatively they exceeded 10 per cent of the greater of the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the fair the review of asset values, especially goodwill and value of the scheme assets, and that portion was recognised impairment testing.
The key assumptions used in respect in the income statement over the expected average remaining of goodwill and impairment testing are the determination working lives of the employees participating in the plan.
of cash-generating units, the long-term growth rate for Otherwise, the accumulated actuarial gains and losses were cash flow projections and the rate used to discount the not recognised, except where there were unrecognised scheme cash flow projections.
These are described in note 9: surpluses: in such instances the actuarial gains and losses were the estimation of and accounting for retirement benefit recognised as they occurred.
The Group believes that fully costs.
The determination of the carrying value of assets and recognising actuarial gains and losses when they occur results liabilities, as well as the charge for the year, and amounts in a better presentation of the financial statements which recognised in the Statement of recognised income and is more in line with current market practice and expected expense, involves judgements made in conjunction with financial reporting developments thus providing more independent actuaries.
These involve estimates about comparable market information.
uncertain future events based on the environment in In addition, in 2008 the Group adopted IFRIC14 IAS19 different countries, including life expectancy of scheme The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset Minimum Funding members, salary and pension increases, inflation and Requirements and their Interaction early.
The interpretation expected returns on assets, as well as discount rates and clarifies the conditions under which a surplus in a postasset values at the year end.
The assumptions used by the employment benefit scheme can be recognised in the Group and sensitivity analysis are described in note 12: financial statements, as well as setting out the accounting the estimation of amounts to be recognised in respect implications where minimum funding requirements exist.
of taxation and legal matters, and the estimation of other The recognition of this change resulted in a 4 million charge provisions for liabilities and charges are subject to uncertain to reported equity net of tax at 1 January 2008 and a nil future events, may extend over several years and so the million impact on reported equity at 31 December 2008. amount and or timing may differ from current assumptions.
Following the change in accounting policy, the Group now The accounting policy for taxation is explained below and recognises actuarial gains and losses in the period in which the recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities, together they occur, in the Statement of recognised income and with a note of unrecognised amounts, are shown in note 13. expense, together with movements in surplus restrictions, Other provisions for liabilities and charges are as set out in and related deferred taxation.
The accounting policy on contingent liabilities, which income and expense had not previously been required to are not provided for, is set out below and the contingent be presented by the Group.
Comparative periods have liabilities of the Group are explained in note 30: been restated to reflect these changes from 1 January 2004.
These changes are set out in detail in note 12.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 99 Directors report and accounts Notes on the accounts continued value at the date of disposal, adjusted for purchased goodwill 1 Accounting policies continued previously consolidated in the balance sheet.
the definition of adjusting items, which are separately Where accumulated losses applicable to a minority exceed disclosed as memorandum information, is explained below the minoritys interest in the equity of a subsidiary, the excess and the impact of these on the calculation of adjusted is allocated to the Groups interest in the subsidiary, except earnings is described in note 7: and to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and the estimation of the fair values of acquired net assets is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
arising in a business combination under IFRS3 and the Inter-company balances and transactions, and any unrealised allocation of the purchase consideration between the gains arising from inter-company transactions, are eliminated underlying net assets acquired, including intangible assets in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
other than goodwill, on the basis of their fair values.
These estimates are prepared in conjunction with the advice of Goodwill independent valuation experts where appropriate.
The Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and is considered relevant transactions for 2007 and 2008 are described to have an indefinite life subject to impairment reviews.
Any in note 26. impairment of goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Such estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition of reasonable in the circumstances and constitute managements a subsidiary, associate or joint venture over the Groups share best judgement at the date of the financial statements.
In the of the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired.
Goodwill future, actual experience may deviate from these estimates is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses and and assumptions, which could affect the financial statements amortisation prior to 1 January 2004. as the original estimates and assumptions are modified, as The Groups policy up to and including 1997 was to eliminate appropriate, in the year in which the circumstances change.
Goodwill acquired from 1998 to Basis of consolidation 31 December 2003 was capitalised and amortised over its The consolidated financial information includes the accounts useful economic life.
As permitted under IFRS1, in respect of British American Tobacco p. l. c. and its subsidiary undertakings, of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, the classification together with the Groups share of the results of its associates and accounting treatment of business combinations was not and joint ventures.
amended on transition to IFRS.
Goodwill previously written off direct to reserves is not recycled to the income statement on A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group, where the disposal of the subsidiary or associate to which it relates.
control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefit from its activities.
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
In respect of associates, goodwill is included in the Associates and joint ventures comprise investments in carrying value of the investment in the associated company.
undertakings, which are not subsidiary undertakings, where On disposal of a subsidiary or associate, the attributable the Groups interest in the equity capital is long term and over amount of goodwill is included in the determination of whose operating and financial policies the Group exercises a the profit or loss on disposal.
significant influence and, in the case of joint ventures, has joint control.
They are accounted for using the equity method.
Foreign currencies The income and cash flow statements of Group undertakings The results of Group undertakings acquired during the period expressed in currencies other than sterling are translated to are included from the date of acquisition of a controlling sterling at average rates of exchange in each year provided interest at which date, for the purposes of consolidation, the that the average rate approximates the exchange rate at the purchase consideration is allocated between the underlying date of the underlying transactions.
Assets and liabilities of net assets acquired, including intangible assets other than these undertakings are translated at rates of exchange at the goodwill, on the basis of their fair value.
For high inflation countries, the translation The results of Group undertakings which have been sold from local currencies to sterling makes allowance for the during the year are included up to the date of disposal.
The impact of inflation on the local currency results.
profit or loss on sale is calculated by reference to the net asset British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 100 Directors report and accounts Group financial statements go online at www.
com annualreport2008 The differences between retained profits of overseas subsidiary Past service costs resulting from enhanced benefits are and associated undertakings translated at average and closing expensed over the period to vesting and if they vest rates of exchange are taken to reserves, as are differences immediately, then they are recognised at that time in arising on the retranslation to sterling using closing rates of the income statement.
exchange of overseas net assets at the beginning of the year.
The Group also has certain post-retirement health care Any differences that have arisen since 1 January 2004 are schemes and they are accounted for on a similar basis presented as a separate component of equity.
As permitted to the defined benefit pension schemes.
under IFRS1, any differences prior to that date are not included in this separate component of equity.
On the disposal of an For defined benefit schemes, the actuarial cost charged overseas undertaking, the cumulative amount of the related to profit from operations consists of current service cost, exchange differences deferred in the separate component of interest cost, expected return on plan assets, past service equity are recognised in the income statement when the gain cost and the impact of any settlements or curtailments.
or loss on disposal is recognised.
Some benefits are provided through defined contribution Foreign currency transactions are initially recorded at the schemes and payments to these are charged as an expense exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of Share-based payments such transactions and from the translation of foreign currency The Group has equity-settled and cash-settled share-based assets and liabilities at year end rates of exchange are recognised compensation plans.
in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges, qualifying net investment Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair hedges and on inter-company quasi-equity loans.
Foreign value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the exchange gains or losses recognised in the income statement grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is are included in profit from operations or net finance costs expensed over the vesting period, based on the Groups depending on the underlying transactions that gave rise to estimate of awards that will eventually vest.
For plans where these exchange differences.
vesting conditions are based on total shareholder returns, the fair value at date of grant reflects these conditions, whereas Revenue earnings per share vesting conditions are reflected in the Revenue principally comprises sales of cigarettes, cigars, leaf calculation of awards that will eventually vest over the vesting and other tobacco products to external customers.
For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability equal excludes duty, excise and other taxes and is after deducting to the portion of the services received is recognised at its rebates, returns and other similar discounts.
Revenue is current fair value determined at each balance sheet date.
recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership Fair value is measured by the use of the Black-Scholes option are transferred to a third party.
pricing model, except where vesting is dependent on market Retirement benefit costs conditions when the Monte-Carlo option pricing model is The Group operates both defined benefit and defined used.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, contribution schemes.
The net deficit or surplus for each based on managements best estimate, for the effects of nondefined benefit pension scheme is calculated in accordance transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
with IAS19, based on the present value of the defined benefit Research and development obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of the Research expenditure is charged to income in the year in scheme assets adjusted, where appropriate, for any surplus which it is incurred.
Development expenditure is charged to restrictions including minimum funding requirements.
income in the year it is incurred, unless it meets the recognition As permitted under IFRS1, all actuarial gains and losses criteria of IAS38 Intangible Assets.
as at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, were Taxation fully recognised.
Actuarial gains and losses and changes in Taxation is that chargeable on the profits for the period, unrecognised scheme surpluses that arise subsequent to that together with deferred taxation.
date, have been recognised in full through the statement of recognised income and expense.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 101 Directors report and accounts Notes on the accounts continued Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated 1 Accounting policies continued amortisation and impairment, and is amortised on a straightThe current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax line basis over a period ranging from 3 to 5 years.
laws enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date The investments in associates shown in the Group balance in the countries where the Groups subsidiaries, associates and sheet include trademarks arising from the combination of joint ventures operate and generate taxable income.
Brown & Williamson B&W and R J Reynolds RJR in 2004 Deferred taxation is provided in full using the liability method to form Reynolds American Inc. RAI, as well as those arising for temporary differences between the carrying amount of on the acquisition of Conwood by RAI in 2006.
As the assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the combination of B&W and RJR for the Group involved the amount used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is provided partial disposal of B&W and an investment in RAI, fair values on temporary differences arising on investments in Group were assigned to trademarks formerly owned by RJR but not undertakings, except where the timing of the reversal of to those formerly owned by B&W.
Most of the carrying value the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it of the trademarks relates to trademarks which are deemed is probable that it will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
to have indefinite lives and each trademark is subject to an A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is annual impairment test.
Certain minor trademarks are being probable that future taxable profits will be available against amortised over their remaining lives.
which the asset can be utilised.
As required under IAS12, Property, plant and equipment deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates that have accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Depreciation been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet is calculated on a straight-line basis to write off the assets date and are expected to apply when the related deferred over their useful economic life.
No depreciation is provided tax asset is realised or deferred tax liability is settled.
on freehold land or assets classified as held for sale.
Freehold and long leasehold property are depreciated at rates between Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the 2.5 per cent and 4 per cent per annum, and plant and extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, equipment at rates between 7 per cent and 25 per cent per in which case it is recognised in equity.
In accordance with the benchmark treatment under The Group has exposures in respect of the payment or IAS23, borrowing costs associated with expenditure on recovery of a number of taxes.
Liabilities or assets for these property, plant and equipment are not capitalised.
payments or recoveries are recognised at such time as an Leased assets outcome becomes probable and when the amount can Assets held under finance leases are included as part of property, reasonably be estimated.
Finance lease assets are initially recognised Intangible assets other than goodwill at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the The intangible assets shown on the Group balance sheet present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of consist mainly of trademarks acquired by the Groups the lease, then depreciated over the shorter of the lease term subsidiary undertakings and computer software.
and their estimated useful lives.
Leasing payments consist of capital and finance charge elements and the finance element Acquired trademarks are carried at cost less accumulated is charged to the income statement.
Trademarks with indefinite lives are not amortised but are reviewed annually for impairment.
Rental payments under operating leases are charged to the Intangible assets other than goodwill classified as held for income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Other trademarks are amortised on a Where arrangements are entered into which, while they are straight-line basis over their remaining useful lives, consistent not in the legal form of a lease, are in substance a lease under with the pattern of economic benefits expected to be IFRIC4, then they are recognised on the same basis as the received, which do not exceed 20 years.
Any impairments leased assets above.
of trademarks are recognised in the income statement but increases in trademark values are not recognised.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 102 Directors report and accounts Group financial statements go online at www.
com annualreport2008 Impairment of non-financial assets Non-derivative financial assets are classified on initial recognition Assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events indicate as available-for-sale investments, loans and receivables or cash that the carrying amount of a cash-generating unit may not and cash equivalents as follows: be recoverable.
In addition, assets that have indefinite useful Available-for-sale investments: available-for-sale investments lives are tested annually for impairment.
An impairment loss are those non-derivative financial assets that cannot be classified is recognised to the extent that the carrying value exceeds as loans and receivables or cash and cash equivalents.
the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Loans and receivables: these are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of quoted in an active market.
assets that generates cash flows which are largely independent of the cash flows from other assets or groups of assets.
At Cash and cash equivalents: cash and cash equivalents the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to include cash in hand and deposits held on call, together the relevant cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating with other short-term highly liquid investments.
Cash units expected to benefit from the acquisition for the purpose equivalents normally comprise instruments with maturities of impairment testing of goodwill.
of 3 months or less at date of acquisition.
In the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are shown net Impairment of financial assets of bank overdrafts, which are included as current borrowings Financial assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date, or in the liabilities on the balance sheet.
whenever events indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
In the case of equity investments classified Apart from available-for-sale investments, non-derivative financial as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the assets are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest fair value of the investment below its cost is considered as an method, subject to reduction for allowances for estimated indicator that the investment is impaired.
These estimates for irrecoverable amounts are recognised when there is objective evidence Inventories that the full amount receivable will not be collected according Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable to the original terms of the asset.
Cost is based on the average cost incurred in acquiring include financial difficulties of the debtor, defaults of payment inventories and bringing them to their existing location and or significant overdue balances.
For interest-bearing assets, condition, which will include raw materials, direct labour their carrying value includes accrued interest receivable.
Net realisable value is Available-for-sale investments are stated at fair value, with the estimated selling price less costs to completion and sale.
changes in fair value being recognised directly in equity.
Tobacco inventories which have an operating cycle that exceeds When such investments are derecognised e. g. through 12 months are classified as current assets, consistent with disposal or become impaired, the accumulated gains and recognised industry practice.
losses, previously recognised in equity, are recognised in the Financial instruments income statement within finance income.
Dividend and Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when interest income on available-for-sale investments are included the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of within finance income when the Groups right to receive the relevant instrument and derecognised when it ceases to payments is established.
be a party to such provisions.
Such assets and liabilities are Fair values for quoted investments are based on observable classified as current if they are expected to be realised or market prices.
If there is no active market for a financial asset, settled within 12 months after the balance sheet date or if the fair value is established by using valuation techniques they are derivative financial instruments not designated as principally involving discounted cash flow analysis.
If not, they are classified as non-current.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 103 Directors report and accounts Notes on the accounts continued shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing 1 Accounting policies continued basis.
This effectiveness testing is reperformed periodically Non-derivative financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost to ensure that the hedge has remained, and is expected to using the effective interest method.
For borrowings, their remain, highly effective.
carrying value includes accrued interest payable, as well as Hedge accounting is discontinued when a hedging instrument unamortised issue costs.
is derecognised e. g. through expiry or disposal, or no longer Derivative financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised, qualifies for hedge accounting.
Where the hedged item is a and subsequently measured, at fair value, which includes highly probable forecast transaction, the related gains and accrued interest receivable and payable where relevant.
losses remain in equity until the transaction takes place, when Changes in their fair values are recognised as follows: they are removed from equity in the same manner as for cash flow hedges as described above.
When a hedged future for derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges, transaction is no longer expected to occur, any related gains the changes in their fair values are recognised directly and losses, previously recognised in equity, are immediately in equity, to the extent that they are effective, with the recognised in the income statement.
ineffective portion being recognised in the income statement.
Where the hedged item results in a non-financial asset, Derivative fair value changes recognised in the income the accumulated gains and losses, previously recognised statement are either reflected in arriving at profit from in equity, are included in the initial carrying value of the operations if the hedged item is similarly reflected or asset basis adjustment and recognised in the income in finance costs.
statement in the same periods as the hedged item.
Where Dividends the underlying transaction does not result in such an asset, Final dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders the accumulated gains and losses are recognised in the are recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements income statement in the same periods as the hedged item: in the period in which the dividends are approved by the for derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges, Companys shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, the carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted for the while interim dividend distributions are recognised in the fair value changes attributable to the risk being hedged, period in which the dividends are declared and paid.
with the corresponding entry being made in the income Segmental analysis statement.
The changes in fair value of these derivatives A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group are also recognised in the income statement: that is engaged in providing products or services within for derivatives that are designated as hedges of net a particular economic environment, and the Groups investments in foreign operations, the changes in their geographical segments form the focus of the Groups fair values are recognised directly in equity, to the extent internal reporting systems.
The Group is a single product that they are effective, with the ineffective portion being business providing cigarettes and other tobacco products.
recognised in the income statement.
Where non-derivatives While the Group has clearly differentiated brands, global such as foreign currency borrowings are designated as net segmentation between a wide portfolio of brands is not investment hedges, the relevant exchange differences are part of the regular internally reported financial information.
The accumulated gains and losses are It is not feasible to segment global results by brand without a recognised in the income statement when the foreign high degree of estimation, especially given that geographically operation is disposed of: and the same operations are used to produce the different brands, and brand results are managed in the context of the for derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting geographic markets in which they are sold.
or are not designated as hedges, the changes in their fair values are recognised in the income statement in the The prices agreed between Group companies for intra-group period in which they arise.
sales of materials, manufactured goods, charges for royalties, commissions, services and fees, are based on normal commercial In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required practices which would apply between independent businesses.
to document prospectively the relationship between the item Royalty income, less related expenditure, is included in the being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also region in which the licensor is based.
required to demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 104 Directors report and accounts Group financial statements go online at www.
com annualreport2008 Adjusting items the Amendment to IFRS2 Share-Based Payment: Vesting Adjusting items are distorting items in the profit from Conditions and Cancellations has been endorsed by the operations and the Group share of the post-tax results of EU.
This interpretation clarifies that vesting conditions are associates and joint ventures which individually or, if of a service conditions and performance conditions only, and similar type, in aggregate, are relevant to an understanding specifies that all cancellations, whether by the entity or of the Groups underlying financial performance.
These items by other parties, should receive the same accounting are separately disclosed either as memorandum information treatment.
It is not expected that this change would on the face of the income statement and in the segmental materially affect the Groups reported profit or equity: analyses, or in the notes to the accounts as appropriate.
the revised IAS1 Presentation of financial statements Provisions has been endorsed by the EU.
This standard will require Provisions are recognised when either a legal or constructive some changes in the format of the financial statements obligation as a result of a past event exists at the balance sheet and permit some changes in terminology, but it will not date, it is probable that an outflow of economic resources will affect the measurement of reported profit or equity: be required to settle the obligation and a reasonable estimate the revised IAS23 Borrowing costs has been endorsed can be made of the amount of the obligation.
This standard requires borrowing costs directly Contingent liabilities attributable to the acquisition, construction or production Subsidiaries and associate companies are defendants in of an asset that takes a substantial period of time to get tobacco-related litigation.
Provision for this litigation would ready for its intended use or sale, to be capitalised as part be made at such time as an unfavourable outcome became of the cost of the asset.
The Groups current policy is to probable and the amount could be reasonably estimated.
expense such borrowing costs as they are incurred.
It is not expected that this change would materially affect the The Group records its external legal fees and other external Groups reported profit or equity.
defence costs for tobacco-related litigation as these costs fall due.
The annual Improvements to IFRS have been endorsed by the EU, and have varying application dates commencing on or Repurchase of share capital after 1 January 2009.
The main effect will be a reclassification When share capital is repurchased the amount of consideration of certain derivative balances between current and non-current paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a on the balance sheet.
Repurchased shares which are not cancelled, or shares purchased for the employee share ownership IFRIC16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation trusts, are classified as treasury shares and presented as a is awaiting EU endorsement.
This interpretation clarifies the deduction from total equity.
specific hedge accounting requirements for net investment hedges.
It is not expected that this change would materially Future changes to accounting policies affect the Groups reported profit or equity.
Certain changes to IFRS will be applicable for the Group accounts in future years and set out below are those which In addition, the revised IFRS3 Business Combinations and are considered to affect the Group.
IAS27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements have been issued and change the accounting for business These changes are effective from 1 January 2009: combinations and transactions with minorities.
While these IFRS8 Operating Segments has been endorsed by the EU.
revised standards are applicable for periods beginning on or This standard requires segmental reporting in the financial after 1 July 2009, with early adoption permitted from on or statements to be on the same basis as is used for internal after 30 June 2007, these are only to be applied prospectively management reporting.
This will not require significant and so there is no restatement of transactions prior to the change to the segments currently reported by the Group, effective date.
These changes have not yet been endorsed but there will be some additional disclosures: by the EU and will only be applicable once that endorsement has occurred.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 105 Directors report and accounts
