Parent Company financial statements Report of the independent auditors to the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of comprises only the Business review, the Directors report British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December excluding the audited part of the Remuneration report, the 2008 which comprise the Balance sheet and the related notes.
Group financial statements and the Shareholder information.
These Parent Company financial statements have been prepared We consider the implications for our report if we become aware under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with audited the information in the Remuneration report that is the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities described as having been audited.
do not extend to any other information.
We have reported separately on the Group financial Basis of audit opinion statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year We conducted our audit in accordance with International ended 31 December 2008.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, disclosures in the Parent Company financial statements including the Remuneration report and the Parent Company and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
financial statements, in accordance with applicable law and It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in of the Parent Company financial statements, and of whether the Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys statements, included in the Responsibility of Directors.
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be the information and explanations which we considered audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK give reasonable assurance that the Parent Company financial and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to information in the Parent Company financial statements and any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
hands it may come, save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Opinion In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view and the Parent Company financial statements give a true and whether the Parent Company financial statements and the fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally part of the Remuneration report to be audited have been Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act affairs as at 31 December 2008: 1985.
We also report to you whether, in our opinion, the the Parent Company financial statements and the part of information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Remuneration report to be audited have been properly the Parent Company financial statements.
The information prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and given in the Directors report includes that specific information presented in the Business review that is cross referred from the the information given in the Directors report is consistent Directors report.
with the Parent Company financial statements.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company  LLP has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 1 Embankment Place, London all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration 25 February 2009 and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Parent Company financial statements.
The other information Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 181 Directors report and accounts
