IG Group Holdings plc Notes to the Financial Statements at 31 May 2008 Report and Financial Statements 2008 49 Notes to the Financial Statements at 31 May 2008 Basis of consolidation 1.
Authorisation of financial The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements statements and statement of of IG Group Holdings plc and the entities it controls its subsidiaries made up to the reporting date as listed in note 15. compliance with IFRS Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, The financial statements of IG Group Holdings plc the Company being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue and its subsidiaries the Group for the year ended 31 May 2008 to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Control were authorised for issue by the board of the directors on 21 July comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies 2008 and the balance sheet signed on the boards behalf by TA of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is Howkins and S Clutton.
IG Group Holdings plc is a public limited achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock of contractual agreement.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries Exchange.
used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are The Group and Company financial statements have been prepared prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company and are in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS based on consistent accounting policies.
All inter-company balances as adopted by the European Union EU as they apply to the financial and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from them, are statements of the Group and of the Company for the year ended eliminated.
31 May 2008 and applied in accordance with the provisions of the On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a Companies Act 1985.
The principal accounting policies adopted by subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
the Group and the Company are set out in note 2.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Accounting policies deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired discount on acquisition is credited Basis of preparation to the profit and loss in the period of acquisition.
The accounting policies which follow have been applied in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 May 2008.
The Group and Company financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year.
The nature of estimates means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
IG Group Holdings plc 50 Report and Financial Statements 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements at 31 May 2008 Foreign currencies 2.
Accounting policies continued The functional currency of each company in the Group is that of the country of incorporation as disclosed in note 15.
The Groups Basis of consolidation continued most significant functional currency is Sterling.
Transactions in The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys other currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency proportion of the fair values of the identifiable assets, liabilities and by applying spot exchange rates prevailing on the dates of the contingent liabilities recognised.
Losses applicable to the minority in transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and a consolidated subsidiarys equity may exceed the minority interest in liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the the subsidiarys equity.
The excess, and any further losses applicable functional currency rate of exchange prevailing on the balance sheet to the minority, are allocated against the majority interest except to date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able to are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates make an additional investment to cover the losses.
If the subsidiary prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Gains subsequently reports profits, such profits are allocated to the majority and losses arising on translation are taken to the income statement, interests until the minoritys share of losses previously absorbed by except for exchange differences arising on monetary assets and the majority has been recovered.
liabilities that form part of the Groups net investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net net investment, at which time they are recognised in profit or loss.
assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas parent shareholders equity.
operations are translated into Sterling at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange year are included in the consolidated income statement from the differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and taken directly effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as to a translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised appropriate.
as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
those used by other members of the Group.
All inter-company transactions and balances between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
IG Group Holdings plc Notes to the Financial Statements at 31 May 2008 Report and Financial Statements 2008 51 Goodwill 2.
Accounting policies continued Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the Property, plant and equipment cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Externally purchased goodwill depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Cost comprises is recognised at the fair value of the consideration paid.
Goodwill is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other recognised as an asset and is allocated to cash generating units for consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly purposes of impairment testing.
Cash generating units represent attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment at that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value groups of assets.
based upon estimated useful lives.
Estimated residual value and Business combinations on or after 1 June 2004 are accounted for useful lives are reviewed on an annual basis and residual values are under IFRS 3 using the purchase method.
Any excess of the cost of based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Depreciation the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair is charged on a straight line basis over the expected useful lives as value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is follows: recognised in the balance sheet as goodwill and is not amortised.
To Leasehold improvements - over the lease term of the extent that the net fair value of the acquired entitys identifiable up to 15 years assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost of the investment, a gain is recognised immediately in the income Office equipment, fixtures and fittings - over 5 years statement.
Goodwill recognised as an asset as at 31 May 2004 is Computer and other equipment - over 2, 3 or 5 years recorded at its carrying amount under UK GAAP and is not amortised.
Motor vehicles - over 4 years Any goodwill asset arising on the acquisition of equity accounted entities is included within the cost of those entities.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any the carrying value may not be recoverable, and are written down accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being immediately to their recoverable amount.
reviewed for impairment, at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon impaired.
disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
The gain or loss arising on For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the derecognition of an asset is determined as the difference between related cash-generating units monitored by management, usually at the sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is business segment level or statutory company level as the case may included in the income statement in the period of derecognition.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the unit, or of an operation within it.
IG Group Holdings plc 52 Report and Financial Statements 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements at 31 May 2008 Impairment of assets 2.
Accounting policies continued At least annually, or when annual impairment testing is required, the Intangible assets directors review the carrying amounts of the Groups tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication and accumulated impairment losses.
exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset initially at cost.
An intangible asset acquired as part of a business does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, combination is recognised outside goodwill if the asset is separable the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value unit to which the asset belongs.
Expenditure on internally developed The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less selling costs intangible assets, excluding development costs, is taken to the and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Development flows are discounted to their present values using a pre-tax discount expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only after all the rate.
This rate reflects current market assessments of the time value following criteria are met: of money as well as the risks specific to the asset for which the the projects technical feasibility and commercial viability can be estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
demonstrated: If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its the availability of adequate technical and financial resources and carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its an intention to complete the project have been confirmed: and recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised as an expense immediately.
the correlation between development costs and future revenue has been established.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may Following initial recognition, the historic cost model is applied, with no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, intangible assets being carried at cost less accumulated amortisation the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised and accumulated impairment losses.
impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount Intangible assets with a finite life are amortised on a straight line basis since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case over their expected useful lives, as follows: the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount Client lists - over the expected trading that would have been determined, had no impairment loss been life of up to 5 years recognised for the asset in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment Development costs - over 3 years loss is recognised as income immediately, although impairment Software and licences - over the contract term of losses relating to goodwill may not be reversed.
up to 5 years The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
In addition, the carrying value of capitalised development expenditure is reviewed for impairment annually before being brought into use.
IG Group Holdings plc Notes to the Financial Statements at 31 May 2008 Report and Financial Statements 2008 53 2.
Accounting policies continued Determination of fair value Bets and other derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value Investments in subsidiaries determined by reference to third party market values bid prices for long positions and offer prices for short positions.
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
For all other derivative financial instruments where there is no underlying active market, the fair value is determined using an Operating leases appropriate valuation technique as determined by the Group at the Leases are classified as operating leases where the lessor retains year end.
substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset.
Lease payments under an operating lease are recognised as an expense Derecognition of financial assets and on a straight line basis over the lease term unless another systematic liabilities basis is more representative of the time pattern of the users benefit.
A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Financial instruments The Group determines the classification of its financial instruments at Financial assets initial recognition in accordance with the categories outlined below A financial asset is derecognised where the rights to receive cash and re-evaluates this designation at each financial year end.
When flows from the asset have expired: the Group retains the right to financial instruments are recognised initially, they are measured at fair receive cash flows from the asset, but has assumed an obligation value, being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets to pay them in full without material delay to a third party under a and financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss, directly pass-through arrangement: or the Group has transferred its rights attributable transaction costs.
to receive cash flows from the asset and either a has transferred Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or b has neither through profit or loss transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
Financial assets and financial liabilities classified as held for trading, or designated as such on inception, are included in this category Where the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows and relate to trade receivables and trade payables as shown in from an asset and has neither transferred nor retained substantially the balance sheet.
Financial instruments are classified as held for all the risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the trading if they are expected to settle in the short term.
The Group asset, the asset is recognised to the extent of the Groups continuing uses derivative financial instruments, in order to hedge exposures involvement in the asset.
Continuing involvement that takes the form resulting from derivatives with clients, which are also classified as of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of held for trading.
the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Group could be required to repay.
All financial instruments at fair value through the profit and loss are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement.
IG Group Holdings plc 54 Report and Financial Statements 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements at 31 May 2008 Cash and cash equivalents 2.
Accounting policies continued Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits which may be Financial liabilities accessed without penalty.
Cash equivalents comprise short-term A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the highly liquid investments with a maturity of less than three months liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Where an existing from the date of acquisition.
For the purposes of the consolidated cash financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on flow statement, net cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as The Group holds money on behalf of clients in accordance with a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new the client money rules of the Financial Services Authority FSA and liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts other regulatory bodies.
This money is included within cash and cash together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
equivalents on the balance sheet and the corresponding liability to clients is included in trade and other payables.
The return received on Trade receivables and trade payables managing client balances is included within finance revenue.
Assets or liabilities resulting from profit or losses on open positions are carried at fair value.
Amounts due from to clients and brokers are Other payables netted against other assets and liabilities with the same counterparty Non-trading financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value where a legally enforceable netting agreement is in place and where and carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method it is anticipated that assets and liabilities will be netted on settlement.
if the time value of money is significant.
Trade receivables represent balances with counterparties and clients where the combination of cash held on account and the valuation Loan notes of financial derivative open positions result in an amount due to Loan notes are initially recognised at fair value of the consideration the Group.
A provision for impairment is established where there is received and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the objective evidence of non-collectability.
Reference is made to an aged effective interest rate method.
profile of debt and the provision is subject to management review.
Trade payables represent balances with counterparties and clients where the combination of cash held on account and the valuation of financial derivative open positions results in an amount payable by the Group.
Prepayments and other receivables Prepayments and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as fair value through profit and loss.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognised in income when the receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
A provision for impairment is established where there is objective evidence of non-collectability.
IG Group Holdings plc Notes to the Financial Statements at 31 May 2008 Report and Financial Statements 2008 55 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted 2.
Accounting policies continued basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws Taxation enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred The income tax expense represents the sum of tax currently payable tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it and movements in deferred tax.
relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to statement because it excludes items of income or expense that income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group are taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or Classification of shares as debt or equity substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial liability of the Group is presented as a liability in the balance sheet: Deferred tax is generally accounted for on all temporary differences measured initially at fair value net of transaction costs and thereafter between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial at amortised cost until extinguished on conversion or redemption.
statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the computation The corresponding dividends relating to the liability component are of taxable profit.
In principle, deferred tax liabilities are recognised charged as interest expense in the income statement.
for all temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available, Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded as the against which deductible temporary differences may be utilised.
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Equity instruments Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary are classified according to the substance of the contractual difference arises from goodwill or negative goodwill or from the arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract initial recognition other than in a business combination of other that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit deducting all of its liabilities.
Own shares held in Employee Benefit Trusts Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, Shares held in trust by the Company for the purposes of employee except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the share schemes are classified as a deduction from shareholders equity temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference and are recognised at cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from the sale and the original cost being taken to revenue The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reserves.
No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
IG Group Holdings plc 56 Report and Financial Statements 2008 Notes to the Financial Statements at 31 May 2008 Retirement benefit costs 2.
Accounting policies continued The Group operates defined contribution schemes.
Contributions are Revenue recognition charged to the income statement as and when they become payable according to the rules of the schemes.
Revenue is recognised when it is probable that economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group and the Share-based payments revenue can be reliably measured.
The Company operates two employee share plans: a Share Incentive Rendering of services includes gains and losses on the running of Plan SIP and Long Term Incentive Plans LTIPs both of which are betting markets and trading in financial markets, net of commissions equity settled.
The cost of these awards is measured at fair value expensed.
Open positions are carried at fair market value and gains based on the market price of the Companys shares at the date of the and losses arising on this valuation are recognised in revenue as well grant and are recognised as an expense in the income statement on as gains and losses realised on positions that have closed.
a straight line basis over the vesting period based on the Companys estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Finance revenue is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
The At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense effective interest rate is the rate which exactly discounts estimated is calculated representing the extent to which the vesting period future cash receipts over the expected life of the financial asset to has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement that assets net carrying amount.
or otherwise of non-market conditions determining the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The movement Dividends receivable are recognised when the shareholders right to in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is receive the payment is established.
recognised in the income statement as part of administrative expenses, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Cost of sales The Company also operates a Shadow SIP scheme for overseas staff, Cost of sales represents duties and levies charged on betting which is cash settled.
The fair value of these awards is measured at revenues.
Betting duties are charged at a fixed rate on aggregate net the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model taking client losses.
into account the terms and conditions of the award.
A liability is recognised over the expected vesting period and until the liability is Operating profit settled it is re-measured at each reporting date with changes in fair Operating profit is the results of the principal activities of the Group value recognised in the income statement.
after charging depreciation of property, plant and equipment, amortisation of intangible assets, operating lease rentals on land and buildings, foreign exchange differences, profit loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and other administrative expenses.
Finance costs The interest cost recognised in the income statement is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal amount charged at the effective interest rate applicable.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the future expected cash flows to the carrying amount of the liability.
Issue costs are included in the determination of the effective interest rates.
IG Group Holdings plc Notes to the Financial Statements at 31 May 2008 Report and Financial Statements 2008 57 IFRS 2 Amendment Share-based payment applies to accounting 2.
Accounting policies continued periods beginning after 1 January 2009.
This amendment clarifies that vesting conditions are service and performance conditions only.
It also Recent accounting developments specifies that all cancellations should receive the same accounting IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures has been adopted treatment whether cancelled by the entity or by other parties.
IFRS 7 introduces new disclosure IFRS 3 Amendment Business Combinations applies to accounting requirements for financial instruments, but has not affected the periods beginning after 1 July 2009.
This standard includes significant valuation or classification of the Groups financial instruments.
The changes to how the acquisition method is applied to business comparative disclosures have been restated to comply with the combinations.
IAS 27 Amendment Consolidated and separate financial The following standards and interpretations have been issued with statements applies to accounting periods beginning after 1 July an effective date after the date of these financial statements.
The revised standard requires the effects of all transactions Group has not applied these standards and interpretations in the with non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no preparation of these financial statements.
The impact on the Groups change in control.
financial statements of the future adoption of the standards and interpretations is still under review, but the Group does not expect IAS 32 Amendment Financial Instruments: Presentation and any of these changes to have a material effect on the results or net IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements Puttable assets of the Group in the period of initial application.
Instruments and Instruments with obligations arising on Liquidation applies to accounting periods beginning after 1 January 2009.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments applies to accounting periods beginning after 1 January 2009.
This standard replaces IAS 14 Segment IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements applies to accounting Reporting and will not affect the results of the Group but will periods beginning after 1 January 2008. require a change in the disclosure of segmental information.
IFRS 8 amends the current segmental reporting requirements of IAS 14 and IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes applies to accounting requires management approach to be adopted so that segmental periods beginning after 1 July 2008. information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction applies to accounting periods IAS 23 Amendment Borrowing Costs applies to accounting periods beginning after 1 January 2008. beginning after 1 January 2009.
The amendment to the standard requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset one that takes a substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale as part of the cost of that asset.
The option of immediately expensing borrowing costs is removed.
IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements applies to accounting periods beginning after 1 January 2009.
This amendment prohibits the presentation of items of income and expense that is non-owner changes in equity in the statement of changes in equity.
Revised IAS 1 also sets out the additional disclosure requirements for entities making restatement or reclassifications.
