IG Group Holdings plc Notes to the Financial Statements at 31 May 2008 Report and Financial Statements 2008 49 Notes to the Financial Statements at 31 May 2008 Basis of consolidation 1.
Authorisation of financial The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements statements and statement of of IG Group Holdings plc and the entities it controls its subsidiaries made up to the reporting date as listed in note 15. compliance with IFRS Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, The financial statements of IG Group Holdings plc the Company being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue and its subsidiaries the Group for the year ended 31 May 2008 to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Control were authorised for issue by the board of the directors on 21 July comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies 2008 and the balance sheet signed on the boards behalf by TA of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is Howkins and S Clutton.
IG Group Holdings plc is a public limited achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock of contractual agreement.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries Exchange.
used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are The Group and Company financial statements have been prepared prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company and are in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS based on consistent accounting policies.
All inter-company balances as adopted by the European Union EU as they apply to the financial and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from them, are statements of the Group and of the Company for the year ended eliminated.
31 May 2008 and applied in accordance with the provisions of the On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a Companies Act 1985.
The principal accounting policies adopted by subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
the Group and the Company are set out in note 2.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Accounting policies deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired discount on acquisition is credited Basis of preparation to the profit and loss in the period of acquisition.
The accounting policies which follow have been applied in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 May 2008.
The Group and Company financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year.
The nature of estimates means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
