Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 BCK AW Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: Nigel Date: 02.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read Revisions Parent Company Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of British Energy Group plc We have audited the parent company financial statements Basis of audit opinion of British Energy Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 We conducted our audit in accordance with International which comprise the balance sheet and the related notes.
These Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing parent company financial statements have been prepared under Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the the information in the Remuneration Committee Report that parent company financial statements and the part of the is described as having been audited.
Remuneration Committee Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the signi cant estimates and judgements We have reported separately on the Group financial statements made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent company of British Energy Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2008. financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors applied and adequately disclosed.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Committee Report and the parent company We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and information and explanations which we considered necessary United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom in order to provide us with suf cient evidence to give reasonable Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the assurance that the parent company financial statements and Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
the part of the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also statements and the part of the Remuneration Committee evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and information in the parent company financial statements and regulatory requirements and International Standards on the part of the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members Opinion as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act In our opinion: 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any the parent company financial statements give a true and fair other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as in writing.
at 31 March 2008: the parent company financial statements and the part of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company Remuneration Committee Report to be audited have been financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act parent company financial statements and the part of the 1985: and Remuneration Committee Report to be audited have been the information given in the Directors Report is consistent properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. with the parent company financial statements.
We also report to you whether, in our opinion, the information given in the Directors Report comprising the Directors Report Business Review, the Directors Report Financial Review, the Directors Report Corporate Social Responsibility, the Directors Report Corporate Governance, the Directors Report Board of Directors and the Directors Report Other Statutory  LLP Information is consistent with the parent company financial Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors statements.
Edinburgh In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has 28 May 2008 not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all Notes: the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if a The maintenance and integrity of the British Energy Group plc website is the information speci ed by law regarding Directors remuneration responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not and other transactions is not disclosed.
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and and consider whether it is consistent with the audited dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other parent company financial statements.
comprises only the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Committee Report and the Chairmans Statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
96 British Energy Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 M M6005 BE back.
