Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 BCK AW Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: Nigel Date: 02.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read Revisions CORPORATE INFORMATION Glossary AGR Advanced Gas-Cooled Reactor DUoS The second generation of gas-cooled nuclear reactor built in Distribution Use of System.
Emission Limit Values ELV Baseload Generation Emission limits imposed under the Large Combustion Plant Mode of operation of a power station at a constant high level Directive, requiring operators to maintain emissions within of output for a sustained period of time to assist in meeting a rate limit at all points in time.
Energy Supply Costs Bonds Mainly comprise the costs incurred for the use of the Bonds issued by British Energy Bond Finance plc formerly distribution and transmission systems, recovered through British Energy Holdings plc.
revenue, and costs of Renewables Obligation Certi cates ROCs.
British Energy Direct Environmental Events British Energy Direct Limited.
Environmental events are events arising from both radioactive and non-radioactive wastes or discharges above permitted BERR levels or breaches of permitted conditions at British Energy Department of Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform.
sites, including nuclear power stations, district survey laboratories and of ces.
BETTA British Electricity Transmission and Trading Arrangements.
BNFL British Nuclear Fuels plc.
EU ETS European Union Emissions Trading Scheme.
BNGSL British Nuclear Group Sella eld Limited.
Forward market price The average of the mid-point of the daily closing prices over the BCU Boiler Closure Unit relevant year for forward annual baseload power starting with Concrete and steel structure forming part of the reactor the average forward price of the next six month winter and pressure boundary unique to Hartlepool and Heysham 1. following six month summer season contracts and thereafter the average forward price of the same following six month Bruce summer season contract and subsequent six month winter The Bruce A and B nuclear power stations in Ontario, Canada.
contract as reported on European Daily Electricity Markets, published by Heren Energy.
BSUoS Balancing Services Use of System.
GTMA Grid Trade Master Agreement.
Clean Dark Spread The price of electricity less the cost of coal and carbon.
GW Gigawatt : GWh Gigawatt-hour One gigawatt equals 1,000 MW: one gigawatt-hour represents Contribution Agreement one hour of electricity consumed at a constant rate of 1 GW.
The agreement dated 14 January 2005 and now between the Secretary of State, NLF, British Energy Generation Limited, Investment in Plant British Energy Group plc and British Energy Bond Finance plc Investment expenditure on plant projects, major repairs and as amended from time to time.
strategic spares across the whole Group.
Decommissioning ISDA The process whereby a nuclear power station is shut down at International Swap Dealers Association.
the end of its economic life, eventually dismantled, and the site made available for other purposes.
British Energy Group plc 105 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 M M6005 BE back.
indd 105 1 10 6 08 11:57:32 0 6 08 11:57:32 Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 BCK AW Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: Nigel Date: 02.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read Revisions Glossary kW Kilowatt : kWh Kilowatt-hour Materiel Condition A kilowatt is a unit of power, representing the rate at which A term used by nuclear operators, particularly in the United energy is used or produced: one kilowatt-hour is a unit of States, in relation to nuclear power stations, and used to energy and represents one hour of electricity consumption describe the physical condition of plant and equipment and at a constant rate of 1 kW.
the condition of operating procedures, engineering drawings, speci cations and manuals taking safety, maintenance and Large Combustion Plant Directive LCPD plant reliability into consideration.
EC Directive applicable to combustion plants exceeding 50MW thermal, that takes into account recent advances in combustion MW Megawatt : MWh Megawatt-hour and abatement technologies to introduce revised limits for One megawatt equals 1,000 kW: one megawatt-hour releases of SO, NOx and dust.
Under UK implementation of the represents one hour of electricity consumption at a constant 2 Directive, operators are permitted to elect either the Emission rate of 1 MW.
Limits Value ELV approach or the National Emissions Reduction Plan NERP approach.
National Emissions Reduction Plan NERP Emission limits imposed under the Large Combustion Plant Levy Exemption Certi cates LECs Directive, requiring operators to maintain emissions within The climate change levy is a tax on the use of energy in industry, an annual bubble limit.
commerce and the public sector.
The purpose of the levy is to encourage the ef cient use of energy, therefore a range NDA of measures are in place to assist energy users to improve Nuclear Decommissioning Authority.
energy ef ciency, one of which is the exemption for the use of renewable power.
LECs are provided as proof that this NLF exemption is valid.
1 LEC equals 1MWh of renewable energy.
An independently administered fund into which the Group makes contributions to cover all qualifying uncontracted LLW, ILW, HLW Low, Intermediate, High Level Waste nuclear liabilities including costs of decommissioning nuclear Radioactive waste is classi ed as low, intermediate or high power stations and PWR back end fuel costs.
level waste according to its heat generating capacity and radioactivity.
LLW comprises slightly radioactive materials, such Nuclear Reportable Events NRE as discarded protective clothing and used wrapped materials.
Nuclear Reportable Events are events reported to the Nuclear ILW comprises more radioactive materials, including sludges Installations Inspectorate in compliance with British Energys and resins from the cleaning of fuel storage pond water, fuel nuclear site licences.
cladding and other materials arising from the reprocessing of spent fuel, and some radioactive components arising from Nuclear Installations Inspectorate NII the decommissioning of plant.
HLW comprises nuclear waste A part of the Nuclear Safety Division Directorate of the Health products separated out from uranium and plutonium during and Safety Executive, which administer nuclear site licences.
the reprocessing of spent nuclear fuel.
Outage Planned and Unplanned Load Factor A period during which a reactor is shut down.
The periodic The electricity produced by a power station expressed as a shutdown of a reactor including for maintenance, inspection percentage of the electricity it could have produced if operating and testing or, in some cases, for refuelling is known as a at its reference energy generation over a xed time period, planned outage.
In the UK, some planned outages are known usually one year.
as statutory outages and are required by the conditions attached to the nuclear site licence needed to operate the Lost Time Accident LTA station.
Unscheduled shutdown of a reactor for a period is An incident which causes one or more days off work known as an unplanned outage.
consecutive or not after, but not including, the day of an occupational injury or illness.
PiP The Performance Improvement Programme.
Market Price The price for annual forward baseload contracts.
106 British Energy Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 M M6005 BE back.
indd 106 1 10 6 08 11:57:32 0 6 08 11:57:32 Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 BCK AW Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: Nigel Date: 02.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read Revisions CORPORATE INFORMATION Glossary PWR Pressurised Water Reactor Shares The most recent type of nuclear reactor to be constructed in Ordinary shares in British Energy Group plc.
the UK which uses pressurised water as both the coolant and the moderator.
Statutory Outage The planned shutdown of nuclear reactors for regulatory Quinquennial Review inspection and maintenance.
The five-yearly review of the assumptions underlying the Groups provision for certain nuclear liabilities.
TNUoS Transmission Use of System.
Realised Price Calculated by dividing revenue from generated electricity TW Terawatt : TWh Terawatt-hour by total output for the period.
One terawatt equals 1,000GW: one terawatt-hour represents one hour of electricity consumption at a constant rate of 1TW.
Renewables Obligation Certi cates ROCs Eligible renewable generators receive ROCs for each MWh Unit Capability Factor of electricity generated.
These certi cates can then be sold The percentage of maximum energy generation that a plant to suppliers, in order to ful l their renewables obligation.
is capable of supplying to the electrical grid, limited only by factors within the control of plant management.
Renewables Obligation Scheme Scheme introduced by Utilities Act 2000 requiring electricity Unit Operating Costs suppliers to ensure a proportion of sales are derived from Calculated by dividing the operating costs of generated renewable sources.
electricity plus depreciation and software amortisation by total output for the period.
Restructuring The restructuring of the Group completed on 14 January 2005.
Unplanned Capability Loss Factor UCLF Unplanned capability loss factor is fide ned as the ratio of the RED unplanned energy losses during a given period of time, to the The Restructuring Effective Date, 14 January 2005. reference energy generation, expressed as a percentage.
Revalorisation Unplanned Energy Loss Revalorisation arises because nuclear liabilities are stated in In the context of Unplanned Capability Loss Factor, unplanned the balance sheet at current price levels, discounted at 3% per energy loss is energy that was not produced during the period annum from the eventual payment dates.
The revalorisation because of unplanned shutdowns, outage extensions, or charge is the adjustment that results from restating these unplanned load reductions due to causes under plant liabilities to take into account the effect of in ation in the year management control.
Causes of energy losses are considered and to remove the effect of one years discount as the eventual to be unplanned if they are not scheduled at least four weeks dates of payment become one year closer.
charges arise in respect of the xed decommissioning obligation to re ect the unwinding of the discount for the period.
UKLA A revalorisation credit arises in respect of movements in the United Kingdom Listing Authority.
value of nuclear liabilities and the NLF receivable to take account of the underlying movement in nuclear liabilities.
Warrants Warrants entitling the holder to subscribe for shares in RPI British Energy Group plc.
British Energy Group plc 107 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 M M6005 BE back.
