Please indicate with an X in the spaces provided how you wish your votes to be cast on the resolutions specified.
To receive and adopt the directors report, the annual accounts and the auditors report for the year ended 31 December 2008.
To approve the directors remuneration report.
To re-elect Mr Bernays as a director.
To re-elect Mr Niven as a director.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors to the Company and authorise the directors to fix their remuneration 6.
To declare a final dividend of 0.85p per Ordinary Share.
To give authority to allot new shares.
To give authority for the Company to purchase its own shares.
To give authority to allot new shares free from pre-emption rights.
To authorise calling general meetings other than annual general meetings on 14 clear days notice.
Subject to any voting instructions so given the proxy will vote, or may abstain from voting, on any resolution as he may think t. Signature........................................................
If you so desire you may delete the words Chairman of the meeting and insert the name of your own choice of proxy, who need not be a member of the Company but must attend the meeting in person to represent you.
The proxy form must be lodged at the Companys UK Registration Agent, Capita Registrars Proxies, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, not less than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
In default the proxy cannot be treated as valid.
Alternatively, in the case of CREST members, voting may be effected by using the CREST electronic proxy appointment service.
CREST members who wish to utilise the CREST service may do so by following the procedures described in the CREST manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message must be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys agent, Capita Registrars whose CREST ID is RA10 by the specified latest time for receipt of proxy appointments.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed.
A corporation must execute the proxy under its common seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised.
If this proxy form is executed under a power of attorney or other authority, such power of attorney or other authority or a notarially certified copy thereof must be lodged with the Registrars with the proxy form.
In the case of joint holders the vote of the senior shall be accepted to the exclusion of the other joint holders, seniority being determined by the order in which the names stand in the register in respect of the joint holding.
THIRD FOLD BUSINESS REPLY SERVICE Licence No MB 122 1 1 Capita Registrars Proxies The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham KENT BR3 4BR SECOND FOLD FIRST FOLD Printed on recycled paper.
