STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the year and of the total return for the year.
In preparing those accounts, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
The Directors confirm that they comply with these requirements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The accounts are published on the www.
co. uk website, which is maintained by the Companys Manager, Impax Asset Management Limited IAM.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by IAM is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of IAM.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
The accounts are prepared in accordance with UK legislation, which may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
STATEMENT UNDER THE DISCLOSURE & TRANSPARENCY RULES 4.1.
12 The Directors each confirm to the best of their knowledge that: a the accounts, prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and b this Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
For and on behalf of the Board Richard Bernays Chairman 17 March 2009 30 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC
