NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 14.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Details of the management contract can be found in the Directors Report on page 20.
Fees payable to the Investment Manager are detailed in note 4 on page 38: the relevant amount outstanding as an accrual was 243,167 2007: 304,501.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS RISK PROFILE Market Risks The potential market risks are i currency risk, ii interest risk, and iii other price risk.
Each considered in turn below.
i Currency Risk The Company invests in global equity markets and therefore is exposed to currency risks as it affects the value of the shares in the base currency.
These currency exposures are not hedged.
Currency exposures for the Company at the year end 2008 are detailed in the table at the end of this note.
ii Interest Rate Risk The Company is typically fully invested in global equities but will from time to time hold interest bearing assets.
These assets are cash balances that earn interest at a floating rate and UK Treasury Bills when large amounts of cash are held.
At the year end the Companys only interest bearing investments were the Ensyn Corporation, Recovco Loan Notes and Turbo Power Systems but a very limited amount of income is receivable on these investments.
The Company does not have interest bearing liabilities.
iii Other Price Risk The principal price risk for the Company is the price volatility of shares that are owned by the Company.
The Company is well diversified across different sub-sectors and geographies and therefore has a volatility level similar to global stock market indices such as the MSCI World Index to which the Company has an expected tracking error of 9.2 per cent.
The historic 3-year volatility of the Company to 31 December 2008 is 19.3 per cent.
Overall Sensitivity The Manager has used the value at risk VAR methodology in UBS PAS a proprietary investment banking model to estimate the maximum expected loss from the portfolio held at 31 December 2008 over 1 day, 5 day, 10 day and 21 day time periods given the historical performance of the fund over the previous five years.
The data in the previous five years is analysed under discrete periods to provide 1 in 10, 1 in 20 and 1 in 100 possible outcomes.
The results of the analysis are shown below.
The Company also held 546,000 2007: 64,000 at Lloyds TSB Bank plc.
Both institutions are large international banks.
Credit risk arising on transactions with brokers relates to transactions awaiting settlement.
Risk relating to unsettled transactions is considered to be low as trading is almost always done on a delivery versus payment basis.
There is a significant credit risk on the three interest bearing investments, Ensyn Corporation, Recovco Loan Notes and Turbo Power Systems as they are all unquoted investments.
Substantially all of the assets of the fund are held by The Northern Trust Company the custodian.
Bankruptcy or insolvency of the custodian may cause the Companys rights with respect to securities held by the custodian to be delayed or limited.
The Company monitors the credit quality of the custodian.
Liquidity Risk The Fund invests in a range of global equities with different market capitalisations and liquidities and therefore needs to be conscious of liquidity risk.
The Manager monitors the liquidity risk by carrying out a Maturity Analysis of the Companys listed equities based on the 20 Day Average Liquidities of each investment and assuming one third 33.3 per cent of the daily traded volume.
As shown in the quantitative analysis below, on 31 December 2008, 16 per cent of the portfolio excluding unquoted investments is held in positions which may have taken more than three months to be realised.
