NOTICE OF MEETING Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Impax Environmental Markets plc will be held at 145-157 St John Street, London, EC1V 4RU on 11 May 2009 at 11.00 a. m. for the following purposes.
To receive the Companys annual accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008, with the reports of the directors and auditors thereon.
To approve the directors remuneration report included in the financial statements.
To re-elect Mr Bernays as a director of the Company, who retires by rotation.
To re-elect Mr Niven as a director of the Company, who retires by rotation.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors to the Company and authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
To declare a final dividend of 0.85p per Ordinary Share of the Company in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008.
To consider and if thought fit pass the following resolutions.
Resolutions 8, 9 and 10 will be proposed as special resolutions.
That the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in substitution for all subsisting authorities to the extent unused to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in section 80 2 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 3,048,841 PROVIDED THAT the directors may not allot relevant securities of an aggregate nominal amount more than 9.99 per cent of the nominal value of the issued share capital at the date of the Annual General Meeting and that this authority shall expire unless previously varied, revoked or renewed by the Company in general meeting at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 15 months from the passing of this resolution the section 80 period but so that the directors may, at any time prior to the expiry of the section 80 period, make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after the expiry of the section 80 period and the directors may allot relevant securities in the pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority granted by this resolution had not expired: 8.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of its Ordinary Shares of 10p each, provided that: a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 45,747,881 representing 14.99 per cent of the Companys issued Ordinary Share capital at the date of the notice of this meeting : b the minimum price exclusive of any expenses which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 10p: c the maximum price excluding expenses which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is not more than the higher of i 5 per cent above the average of the middle market quotations for the Ordinary Shares for the five business days immediately before the day on which it purchases that share and ii the price stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation EC 2273 2003 : d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company in 2010 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 15 months from the passing of this resolution, unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and e the Company may make a contract to purchase Ordinary Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority, which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant to any such contract.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 7, in substitution for any existing power under section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 but without prejudice to the exercise of any such power prior to the date hereof, the directors be and are hereby empowered, pursuant to section 95 of that Act, to allot and make offers or agreements to allot equity securities as defined in section 94 2 of that Act and or sell equity securities held as treasury shares pursuant to section 162D of that Act, in each case for cash pursuant to the authority and for the period of the authority conferred by resolution 7 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,048,841 as if section 89 1 of that Act did not apply to such allotment subject to a maximum of 9.99 per cent of the aggregate nominal value of the issued share capital at the date of this resolution.
45 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC NOTICE OF MEETING CONTINUED 10.
That a general meeting of the Company other than an annual general meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice, provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Companys next annual general meeting after the date of the passing of this resolution.
Registered Ofce: By order of the Board 145-157 St John Street CAVENDISH ADMINISTRATION LIMITED London EC1V 4RU Company Secretary 17 March 2009 NOTES 1.
Proxies A member is entitled to appoint another person as his proxy to exercise all or any of his rights to attend to speak and to vote at the meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Forms of proxy need to be deposited with the Companys registrar, Capita Registrars at Proxy department, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU not later than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
Completion of a form of proxy will not preclude a member from attending and voting in person at the meeting.
CREST members may utilise the CREST proxy appointment service by following the directions set out in the form of proxy enclosed with this document.
Right to attend and vote Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that in order to have the right to attend and vote at the meeting and also for the purpose of determining how many votes a person entitled to attend and vote may cast, a person must be entered on the register of members of the Company at 6.00 p. m. on 9 May 2009 or, in the event of any adjournment, at 6.00 p. m. on the date which is 48 hours before the day of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of members after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Corporate members In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives http: www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
Nominated persons Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may have a right, under an agreement between him her and the member by whom he she was nominated, to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may have a right, under such an agreement, to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the above rights of the members in relation to the appointment of proxies does not apply to Nominated Persons.
Those rights can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
Total number of shares and voting rights As at 16 March 2009 being the last practicable business day prior to the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 305,405,220 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Of these shares 215,886 were held in Treasury.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at that date are 305,189,334.
