Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the Company law requires the Directors to prepare consolidated financial statements for undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and each financial year.
The Directors are required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the group financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as 2. the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors report includes issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The Directors have also a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the elected to prepare financial statements for the Company in accordance with IFRSs as position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken adopted by the European Union and as issued by the International Accounting as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Standards Board.
The financial statements are also required by law to be properly they face.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
By order of the Board International Accounting Standard 1 Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 1 requires that financial statements present fairly, for each financial year, the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash ows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the denitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expense Jeremy Darroch Andrew Grifth set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the 30 July 2008 30 July 2008 preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, Directors are also required to: s properly select and apply accounting policies: s present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and s provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
