Following this method, goodwill is 1.
Accounting policies initially recognised on consolidation, representing the difference between the fair value British Sky Broadcasting Group plc the Company is a limited liability company cost of the business combination and the fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities incorporated in England and Wales, and domiciled in the United Kingdom UK.
The and contingent liabilities assumed.
Where a business combination occurs in several consolidated financial statements include the Company and its subsidiaries together, stages, as a result of successive share purchases, the goodwill associated with each the Group and its interests in associates and jointly-controlled entities.
stage is calculated using fair value information at the date of each additional share purchase.
a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with In respect of business combinations that occurred prior to the Transition Date, goodwill International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union has been included at the amounts recognised under the Groups UK Generally EU, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP accounting policies on the Transition Date.
In addition, the Group also complied with IFRS as issued by the On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the attributable amount of International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
goodwill is included in the determination of profit or loss on disposal, except for goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to the Transition Date, which is The following IFRSs were adopted from 1 July 2004, the date of transition to IFRS the not reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent gain or loss on Transition Date, which is earlier than required under the IFRS transitional disposal.
provisions: IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses and is tested, at least annually, and IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
for impairment, based on the recoverable amounts of the cash generating unit to which the goodwill has been allocated.
Any impairment identied is recognised b Basis of preparation immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
The carrying The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis amount of goodwill in respect of associates and joint ventures is included in the and on an historical cost basis, except for the remeasurement to fair value of financial carrying amount of the investment in the associate or joint venture.
instruments as described in the accounting policies below.
e Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment PPE The Group maintains a 52 or 53 week scal year ending on the Sunday nearest to 30 i. Intangible assets June in each year.
In scal year 2008, this date was 29 June 2008, this being a 52 Research expenditure is recognised in operating expense in the income statement as week year scal year 2007: 1 July 2007, 52 week year: scal year 2006: 2 July 2006, the expenditure is incurred.
Development expenditure relating to the application of 52 week year.
For convenience purposes, the Group continues to date its consolidated research knowledge to plan or design new or substantially improved products for sale financial statements as at 30 June.
The Group has classied assets and liabilities as or use within the business is recognised as an intangible asset from the point at current when they are expected to be realised in, or intended for sale or consumption which it is probable that the Group has the intention and ability to generate future in, the normal operating cycle of the Group.
economic benets from the development expenditure, that the development is technically feasible and that the subsequent expenditure can be measured reliably.
Any c Basis of consolidation other development expenditure is recognised in operating expense as incurred.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company Other intangible assets, which are acquired by the Group separately or through a has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of business combination, are initially stated at cost or fair value, respectively, less an entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
Subsidiaries are included in the accumulated amortisation and impairment losses, other than those that are classied consolidated financial statements of the Company from the date control of the as held for sale, which are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less subsidiary commences until the date that control ceases.
Intra-group balances, and any costs to sell.
unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Amortisation of an intangible asset begins when the asset is available for use, and is charged to the income statement through operating expense on a straight-line basis ii.
Associates and joint ventures over the intangible assets estimated useful life, principally being a period between Associates are entities where the Group has significant inuence, but not control or three and ten years, unless the asset life is judged to be indefinite.
If the useful life is joint control, over the financial and operating policies of the entity.
Joint ventures are indefinite or the asset is not yet available for use, no amortisation is charged and an those entities which are jointly controlled by the Group under a contractual agreement impairment test is carried out at least annually.
Other intangible assets are tested for with another party or parties.
impairment in line with accounting policy j below.
These consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total ii.
Property, plant and equipment recognised gains and losses of associates and joint ventures using the equity method, Owned PPE is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any impairment from the date that significant inuence or joint control commences to the date that it losses, see accounting policy j, other than those items that are classied as held for ceases, based on present ownership interests and excluding the possible exercise of sale, which are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
potential voting rights, less any impairment losses see accounting policy j.
When the When an item of PPE comprises major components having different useful economic Groups interest in an associate or joint venture has been reduced to nil because the lives, the components are accounted for as separate items of PPE.
Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in the associate or joint venture, the Group only provides for additional losses to the extent that it has incurred legal or Assets held under finance leases, which confer rights and obligations similar to those constructive obligations to fund such losses, or where the Group has made payments attached to owned assets, are treated as PPE see accounting policy o. on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Where the disposal of an investment in an associate or joint venture is considered to be highly probable, the investment ceases to The cost of PPE, less estimated residual value, is depreciated in operating expense on be equity accounted and, instead, is classied as held for sale and stated at the lower a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life.
Land, and assets that are not yet of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
available for use, are not depreciated.
