Believe in better B y seeing the b igger picture There is no bigger challenge than climate change and The Bigger Picture were determined to play our part in promoting positive action to meet it.
Thats why weve reduced our CO 2 At Sky, we believe a successful business emissions by 27% in the last three years and why we source 100% renewable energy to power all of the sites is a responsible business.
For us, that that we own in the UK.
For emissions we dont have answers for yet, weve invested in high quality, verified means seeing the bigger picture and offsets.
Its through this approach that we became the worlds first carbon neutral media company in 2006. making a difference in three key areas: But we can go further by joining forces with our helping to create a healthy environment: customers and our people.
Weve downloaded our energy-saving auto standby feature to over four opening up the arts to more people: million set top boxes which, just by putting boxes to sleep overnight, has saved our customers 12 million and encouraging participation in sport.
on their electricity bills and 52,000 tonnes of CO in 2 its first year alone.
B Br riit tiis sh S h Sk ky B y Br ro oa ad dc ca as st tiin ng G g Gr ro ou up p p pllc c 16 16 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ev viie ew 2 w 20 00 08 8 27% Reduction in our CO emissions 2 in the last three years 5, 000 We have helped to train more than 5,000 new cricket coaches Concrete Canvas featuring street artist Julian Beever We also want to inspire and help people to make Our work with ENO this year has included support of Through Sky Sports Living for Sport, in partnership changes themselves, from green offers in our customer their critically acclaimed Sky Arts season, and the launch with the Youth Sport Trust, we have reached more than magazine, to green programming on screen and advice of Sky Seats extra, which offers reduced prices on 17,000 pupils with a programme designed to re-engage on our website.
For staff, we offer The Bigger Picture 14,000 seats a year.
We are also broadcast sponsor of 11 to 16-year-olds in school life.
More than 200 new card, where they can earn points for green actions, the Hay Festival, the UKs pre-eminent literary festival, schools have joined the programme in the past 12 cashback on hybrid vehicles and discounted loans for which we bring into customers living rooms through months and the results show that it has improved bicycles.
But we want to do more and, in January 2008, Mariella Frostrups daily show, Hay on Sky.
we announced a partnership with Global Action Plan, Sky is known for its coverage of some of the biggest Our new five-year partnership with British Cycling will the environmental charity, to work together to inspire events in sport, but our involvement goes much further provide increased support for the sport in the run-up to more action over the next three years.
Our investment in sports rights the 2012 Olympic Games in London, and beyond.
As well We want more people to enjoy the arts in more ways.
helps to fund sport at the grass roots and encourage as helping Britains elite to achieve even more success, We do that first through Sky Arts, which shows 18 hours participation at all levels.
Through our partnership with we want to help develop the next generation of talent of arts-related programming, from Mozart and Madam the England and Wales Cricket Board ECB, we have and get more people involved in cycling for sport and Butterfly to Hendrix and hip hop, seven days a week.
helped to train more than 5,000 new cricket coaches leisure at all levels.
We also reach out beyond the screen onto the stage and we intend to increase that number further to give by supporting leading arts organisations and events more children the chance to play the game.
across the UK, including English National Opera, English National Ballet, the Hay Festival and the National Trust.
B Br riit tiis sh S h Sk ky B y Br ro oa ad dc ca as st tiin ng G g Gr ro ou up p p pllc c 17 17 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ev viie ew 2 w 20 00 08 8
