Summary Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 30 June 2008 2008 2007 m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 997 1,007 Interest received 43 46 Taxation paid 163 128 Net cash from operating activities 877 925 Cash flows from investing activities Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 11 9 Net funding to joint ventures and associates 6 3 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 215 292 Purchase of intangible assets 124 64 Purchase of available-for-sale investments 6 947 Purchase of subsidiaries net of cash and cash equivalents purchased 72 104 Proceeds from the sale of subsidiaries 3 Increase decrease in short-term deposits 170 632 Net cash used in investing activities 579 769 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings 383 295 Repayment of borrowings 16 192 Repayment of obligations under finance leases 1 Proceeds from disposal of shares in Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP 22 37 Purchase of own shares for ESOP 45 76 Purchase of own shares for cancellation 214 Interest paid 165 154 Dividends paid to shareholders 280 233 Net cash used in financing activities 102 537 Effect of foreign exchange rate movements 1 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 197 381 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 435 816 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 632 435 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 37 Annual Review 2008 Summary financial statements continued regulation upon our activities, our reliance on Summary financial statements Forward-looking statements technology, which is subject to risk, change and The summary financial statements, summary Directors This Annual Review contains certain forward-looking development, failure of key suppliers, our ability to report and summary report on Directors remuneration statements within the meaning of the United States continue to obtain exclusive rights to movies, sports contained within this document are only a summary of Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with events and other programming content, risks inherent the information provided in the consolidated financial respect to our financial condition, results of operations in the implementation of large-scale capital expenditure statements and Directors report contained within the and business, and our strategy, plans and objectives.
projects, our ability to continue to communicate and Annual Report.
The auditors report on the Companys These statements include, without limitation, those market our services effectively, and the risks associated annual accounts was unqualified.
The information that express forecasts, expectations and projections with our operation of digital television transmission has been prepared in accordance with the accounting with respect to the potential for growth of free-to-air in the United Kingdom UK and Republic of Ireland policies as set out in the Annual Report.
These summaries and pay television, fixed line telephony, broadband Ireland.
Information on some of the risks and do not contain sufficient information to allow as full an and bandwidth requirements, advertising growth, uncertainties associated with our business are described understanding of the results and state of affairs of the DTH subscriber growth, Sky Multiroom, Sky and other in the Directors report review of the business Group as would be allowed by the Annual Report, which services penetration, churn, DTH and other revenue, Risk Factors section of our Annual Report for the year contains more detail.
A copy of the Annual Report can profitability and margin growth, cash flow generation, ended 30 June 2008.
Except as required by law, we be obtained, free of charge, by writing to the Company programming and other costs, subscriber acquisition undertake no obligation publicly to update or revise Secretary at Grant Way, Isleworth, Middlesex TW7 5QD costs and marketing expenditure, capital expenditure any forward-looking statements, whether as a result or it can be downloaded from the Companys website at programmes and proposals for returning capital of new information, future events or otherwise.
To elect to receive the Annual to shareholders.
Report for future years, write to Lloyds TSB Registrars, These statements and all other forward-looking Use of measures not defined under IFRS The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
statements contained in this Annual Review are not This Annual Review contains certain information on the The summary financial statements have been prepared guarantees of future performance and are subject to Groups financial position, operating results and cash in accordance with International Financial Reporting risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are flows that have been derived from measures calculated Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European beyond our control, are difficult to predict and could in accordance with IFRS.
This information should not Union, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the cause actual results to differ materially from those be read in isolation of the related IFRS measure.
expressed or implied or forecast in the forward-looking statements.
These factors include, but are not limited to, the fact that we operate in a highly competitive environment, the effects of laws and government Glossary of terms Term Description Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted profit divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares during the year.
Adjusted operating profit Operating profit before taking account of exceptional items.
ARPU Average Revenue Per User: the amount spent by the Groups residential subscribers in the quarter, divided by the average number of residential subscribers in the quarter, annualised.
Churn The number of DTH subscribers over a given period that terminate their subscription in its entirety, net of former subscribers who reinstate their subscription in that period where such reinstatement is within a twelve month period of the termination of their original subscription, expressed as a percentage of total average subscribers.
Customer A subscriber to a DTH service.
DTH Direct-to-home: the transmission of satellite services with a reception through a mini-dish.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation is calculated as operating profit before depreciation and amortisation or impairment of goodwill and intangible assets.
Effective tax rate The total tax charge as a percentage of profit before exceptional items.
Free cash flow The amount of cash generated by Sky after meeting obligations for interest and tax, and after all capital investment and net cash flows relating to our joint ventures and associates.
Gross margin Revenue less programming expenses as a proportion of revenue.
Gross profit Revenue less programming expense.
Net debt Cash, cash-equivalents, short-term deposits, net of borrowings and borrowings related derivative financial instruments.
Product Any service chosen by a Sky customer.
These include DTH, Sky, Sky Multiroom, Sky HD, Sky Broadband and Sky Talk.
Sale A sale is a gross addition of any product.
Underlying Excluding Amstrad & 365 Media as relevant.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 38 Annual Review 2008
