This item was previously disclosed as a contingent asset in the consolidated financial statements as at 30 June 2006.
Included within operating expense for the year ended 30 June 2008 is 21 million 2007: 16 million of expense relating to the legal costs of the Groups claim against EDS an information and technology solutions provider, which provided services to the Group as part of the Groups investment in customer management systems software and infrastructure.
Included within operating expense for the year ended 30 June 2008 is 7 million of expense relating to a restructuring exercise undertaken following a review of operating costs.
ii Capital stock includes called-up share capital and share premium.
iii The number of cable homes is as reported to us by the cable operators.
The reported number of cable homes reflects the impact of Virgin Media ceasing to carry Skys basic channels on its platform, following the expiry and non-renewal of an agreement at the end of February 2007. iv The DTT homes number consists of Ofcoms estimate of the number of homes where DTT is the only platform.
The number of DTT homes for all years disclosed above is based on Ofcoms Digital Television Update published quarterly in arrears previously sourced from BARB.
Latest data available for the year ended 30 June 2008 is at 31 March 2008.
Factors which materially affect the comparability of the selected financial data Available-for-sale investment At 30 June 2008, we recorded an impairment loss of 616 million in the carrying value of our equity investment in ITV.
For further details see note 6 to the Consolidated financial statements Impairment of available-for-sale investment.
Business combinations During scal 2008, we completed the acquisition of Amstrad plc Amstrad.
The results of this acquisition were consolidated from the date on which control passed to the Group 5 September 2007.
For further details see note 29 to the Consolidated financial statements Purchase of subsidiaries.
During scal 2007, we completed the acquisition of 365 Media Group plc 365 Media.
The results of this acquisition were consolidated from the date on which control passed to the Group 23 January 2007.
During scal 2006, we completed the acquisition of Easynet Group plc Easynet.
The results of this acquisition were consolidated from the date on which control passed to the Group 6 January 2006.
Disposal of joint venture On 12 December 2007, the Group sold its 100% stake in BSkyB Nature Limited, the investment holding company for the Groups 50% interest in the NGC-UK Partnership.
As consideration for the disposal, the Group received 21% interests in both NGC Network International LLC and NGC Network Latin America LLC in effect, 21% of National Geographic Channels television operations outside the US.
The Group recognised a profit on disposal of 67 million.
Exchange rates A significant portion of our liabilities and expenses associated with the cost of programming acquired from US lm licensors is denominated in US dollars.
For a discussion of the impact of exchange rate movements on our financial condition and results of operations see note 23 to the Consolidated financial statements Derivatives and other financial instruments.
