Believe in better B y making service simple, r eliable and personal Service has never been an extra for Sky.
From the very Leading customer service beginning, it has been central to who we are and what we do.
Thats why weve been investing in our systems High quality customer service is a foundation and people since the start.
We understand that the closer we get to our customers, the better we can meet for success.
Everyone at Sky is committed their needs and the more satisfied they are.
to putting the customer first and delivering We want to make it easy for our customers to deal with us.
At every stage from the initial call to our contact simply great service.
centre, the home visit from our engineers or our online billing service we strive to make our service simple, reliable and personal.
B Br riit tiis sh S h Sk ky B y Br ro oa ad dc ca as st tiin ng G g Gr ro ou up p p pllc c 14 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ev viie ew 2 w 20 00 08 8 4.
4m Our field engineers make over 4.4 million home visits a year 3 00,000 Hours of training for our contact centre advisers Happy Feet We hope this seems easy, but its the result of huge and tailored conversations that fit the needs and Because we know our customers lead busy lives, we effort.
For example, with more to offer than ever, expectations of each individual customer even now offer a choice of morning and afternoon slots for we now sell twice as many products as two years ago, anticipating how they can help customers without being visits and we keep them informed of an estimated arrival but were answering calls even more quickly, thanks asked.
Weve made it easier, too, for customers to do time.
We even have a special Home Move team so, in all to a programme to enhance the effectiveness of more for themselves to find out information or check the stress of moving house, our customers at least have our contact centres and the introduction of new their bills online or by using the red button on their confidence that Sky will move seamlessly with them.
All this effort is worth it.
We score highly on customer We know how important it is to our customers that Our contact centres help co-ordinate Skys 3,800 satisfaction and have loyalty levels which are the envy our staff are knowledgeable and responsive.
In the field engineers who make over four million home of our competitors.
But we are never satisfied.
We dont last year alone, we have invested in over 300,000 hours visits a year installing, upgrading and repairing want to offer the best level of service in our industry.
of training for our contact centre advisers.
If something goes wrong, we aim to fix We want to offer the best service, full stop.
And we will make sure they can answer a wide range of questions it fast and without fuss.
keep working to deliver this.
about our expanding product range and have open B Br riit tiis sh S h Sk ky B y Br ro oa ad dc ca as st tiin ng G g Gr ro ou up p p pllc c 15 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ev viie ew 2 w 20 00 08 8
