Available-for-sale investments continued significant and prolonged decline in the equity share price.
In accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, the Group has continued to review that carrying value throughout scal 2008 and has recognised a cumulative impairment loss of 616 million in the current year.
The impairment loss for the year was determined with reference to ITVs closing equity share price of 47.5 pence at 27 June 2008, the last trading day of the Groups financial year.
Any disposal of the investment, assuming certain other factors remain consistent with those existing at the balance sheet date, would be exempt from tax under the provisions of the Substantial Shareholding Exemption SSE.
As such, the SSE provisions would prevent any capital loss arising for tax purposes.
The Group holds certain unquoted equity investments that are carried at cost less impairment.
The fair value of these investments is not considered to differ signicantly from the carrying value.
Tax losses are treated as unrecognised deferred tax assets if it is not considered probable that suitable future taxable profits will arise.
During the year, any tax losses suffered by UK entities have been relieved against taxable profits in other UK entities in the Group.
The deferred tax asset recognised in respect of tax losses arises principally in Luxembourg.
Based on managements forecast, there will be suitable future taxable profits against which this deferred tax asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which they reverse.
The rate enacted or substantially enacted for the relevant periods of reversal is 28% in the year ended 30 June 2008 2007: 28% to 30%.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2008 2007 m m Deferred tax assets 36 66 Deferred tax liabilities 13 12 23 54 ii Unrecognised deferred tax assets 2008 2007 m m Tax losses arising from trading 128 152 Tax losses arising from capital disposals and provisions against investments 407 447 535 599 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the items above because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can utilise the losses.
At 30 June 2008, a deferred tax asset of 48 million 2007: 50 million principally arising from UK losses in the Group, has not been recognised.
These losses can only be offset against taxable profits generated in the entities concerned.
There is currently insufficient evidence to support the recognition of a deferred tax asset relating to these losses.
