Following this method, goodwill is 1.
Accounting policies initially recognised on consolidation, representing the difference between the fair value British Sky Broadcasting Group plc the Company is a limited liability company cost of the business combination and the fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities incorporated in England and Wales, and domiciled in the United Kingdom UK.
The and contingent liabilities assumed.
Where a business combination occurs in several consolidated financial statements include the Company and its subsidiaries together, stages, as a result of successive share purchases, the goodwill associated with each the Group and its interests in associates and jointly-controlled entities.
stage is calculated using fair value information at the date of each additional share purchase.
a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with In respect of business combinations that occurred prior to the Transition Date, goodwill International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union has been included at the amounts recognised under the Groups UK Generally EU, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP accounting policies on the Transition Date.
In addition, the Group also complied with IFRS as issued by the On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the attributable amount of International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
goodwill is included in the determination of profit or loss on disposal, except for goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to the Transition Date, which is The following IFRSs were adopted from 1 July 2004, the date of transition to IFRS the not reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent gain or loss on Transition Date, which is earlier than required under the IFRS transitional disposal.
provisions: IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses and is tested, at least annually, and IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
for impairment, based on the recoverable amounts of the cash generating unit to which the goodwill has been allocated.
Any impairment identied is recognised b Basis of preparation immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
The carrying The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis amount of goodwill in respect of associates and joint ventures is included in the and on an historical cost basis, except for the remeasurement to fair value of financial carrying amount of the investment in the associate or joint venture.
instruments as described in the accounting policies below.
e Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment PPE The Group maintains a 52 or 53 week scal year ending on the Sunday nearest to 30 i. Intangible assets June in each year.
In scal year 2008, this date was 29 June 2008, this being a 52 Research expenditure is recognised in operating expense in the income statement as week year scal year 2007: 1 July 2007, 52 week year: scal year 2006: 2 July 2006, the expenditure is incurred.
Development expenditure relating to the application of 52 week year.
For convenience purposes, the Group continues to date its consolidated research knowledge to plan or design new or substantially improved products for sale financial statements as at 30 June.
The Group has classied assets and liabilities as or use within the business is recognised as an intangible asset from the point at current when they are expected to be realised in, or intended for sale or consumption which it is probable that the Group has the intention and ability to generate future in, the normal operating cycle of the Group.
economic benets from the development expenditure, that the development is technically feasible and that the subsequent expenditure can be measured reliably.
Any c Basis of consolidation other development expenditure is recognised in operating expense as incurred.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company Other intangible assets, which are acquired by the Group separately or through a has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of business combination, are initially stated at cost or fair value, respectively, less an entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
Subsidiaries are included in the accumulated amortisation and impairment losses, other than those that are classied consolidated financial statements of the Company from the date control of the as held for sale, which are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less subsidiary commences until the date that control ceases.
Intra-group balances, and any costs to sell.
unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Amortisation of an intangible asset begins when the asset is available for use, and is charged to the income statement through operating expense on a straight-line basis ii.
Associates and joint ventures over the intangible assets estimated useful life, principally being a period between Associates are entities where the Group has significant inuence, but not control or three and ten years, unless the asset life is judged to be indefinite.
If the useful life is joint control, over the financial and operating policies of the entity.
Joint ventures are indefinite or the asset is not yet available for use, no amortisation is charged and an those entities which are jointly controlled by the Group under a contractual agreement impairment test is carried out at least annually.
Other intangible assets are tested for with another party or parties.
impairment in line with accounting policy j below.
These consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total ii.
Property, plant and equipment recognised gains and losses of associates and joint ventures using the equity method, Owned PPE is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any impairment from the date that significant inuence or joint control commences to the date that it losses, see accounting policy j, other than those items that are classied as held for ceases, based on present ownership interests and excluding the possible exercise of sale, which are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
potential voting rights, less any impairment losses see accounting policy j.
When the When an item of PPE comprises major components having different useful economic Groups interest in an associate or joint venture has been reduced to nil because the lives, the components are accounted for as separate items of PPE.
Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in the associate or joint venture, the Group only provides for additional losses to the extent that it has incurred legal or Assets held under finance leases, which confer rights and obligations similar to those constructive obligations to fund such losses, or where the Group has made payments attached to owned assets, are treated as PPE see accounting policy o. on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Where the disposal of an investment in an associate or joint venture is considered to be highly probable, the investment ceases to The cost of PPE, less estimated residual value, is depreciated in operating expense on be equity accounted and, instead, is classied as held for sale and stated at the lower a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life.
Land, and assets that are not yet of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
available for use, are not depreciated.
Any changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recognised immediately in the Assets under finance leases and Lesser of lease term and the useful income statement.
The carrying value of the underlying hedged items are adjusted for leasehold improvements economic life of the asset the change in the fair value of the hedged risks, with the gains or losses recognised immediately in the income statement, offsetting the fair value movement on the Borrowing costs are recognised in finance costs in the period in which they are derivative.
incurred regardless of how the borrowings have been applied.
Prospective effectiveness is assessed quarterly, through a comparison of the principal f Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities terms of the hedging instrument and the underlying hedged item, including the The Group uses a number of derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to likelihood of default by the derivative counterparty.
The retrospective effectiveness of uctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
the Groups fair value hedges is calculated quarterly using the cumulative dollar-offset approach, with movements in the fair value of the hedged item being compared to In the current year, the Group has adopted IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures movements in the fair value of the hedging instrument.
The Group uses a range of which is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007, 80% to 125% for hedge effectiveness and any relationship which has effectiveness and the consequential amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
outside this range is deemed to be ineffective and hedge accounting is suspended.
Derivatives are held at fair value from the date that a derivative contract is entered Embedded derivatives into.
Fair value is dened as the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction.
as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to The fair value of derivative financial instruments is estimated with reference to the those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with contracted value and the appropriate market value prevailing at the balance sheet date.
unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Embedded derivatives are Certain derivatives held by the Group which relate to highly probable forecast carried on the balance sheet at fair value from the inception of the host contract.
transactions hedged items, which meet qualifying criteria under IAS 39, are Changes in fair value are recognised within the income statement during the period in designated as cash ow hedges or fair value hedges, and are subject to cash ow which they arise.
hedge accounting or fair value hedge accounting respectively.
In certain circumstances, only the intrinsic value of a derivative has been designated as a cash ow hedge, with g Inventories the remaining fair value not designated as a cash ow hedge.
Acquired and commissioned television programme inventories held by the Group do not meet the qualifying criteria for recognition for accounting Programme inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value purposes as hedges, despite this being their economic function.
Changes in the fair NRV, including, where applicable, estimated subscriber escalation payments, and values of these derivatives are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The net of the accumulated expense charged to the income statement to date.
Group does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes.
Programming rights are included as inventories when the legally enforceable licence Derivatives that qualify for cash ow hedge accounting period commences and all of the following conditions have been met: a the cost of Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated as cash ow hedges each programme is known or reasonably determinable: b the programme material cash ow hedging instruments are initially recognised in the hedging reserve.
In has been accepted by the Group in accordance with the conditions of the rights, and circumstances where the derivative used is a currency option, only changes in the c the programme is available for its first showing.
Prior to being included in intrinsic value of the option are designated under the cash ow hedging relationship, inventories, the programming rights are classied as television programme rights not with all other movements being recorded immediately in the income statement.
yet available for transmission and not recorded on the Groups balance sheet and are Amounts accumulated in the hedging reserve are subsequently recognised in the instead disclosed as contractual commitments see note 27.
Payments made upon income statement in the periods in which the related hedged items are recognised in receipt of commissioned and acquired programming, but in advance of the legal right the income statement.
to broadcast the programmes, are treated as prepayments.
At inception, the effectiveness of the Groups cash ow hedges is assessed through a The cost of television programme  inthe operating expense comparison of the principal terms of the hedging instrument and the underlying line of the income statement, primarily as described below: hedged item.
The ongoing effectiveness of the Groups cash ow hedges is assessed using the dollar-offset approach, with the expected cash ows of hedging instruments Sports 100% of the cost is recognised in the income statement on the first being compared to the expected cash ows of the hedged items.
This assessment is broadcast or, where the rights are for multiple seasons or competitions, such rights used to demonstrate that each hedge relationship is expected to be highly effective on are principally recognised on a straight-line basis across the seasons or competitions.
inception, has been highly effective in the period and is expected to continue to be highly effective in future periods.
The measurement of hedge ineffectiveness for the News 100% of the cost is recognised in the income statement on first broadcast.
Groups hedging instruments is calculated using the hypothetical derivative method, with the fair values of the hedging instruments being compared to those of the General entertainment The cost is recognised in the income statement based on the hypothetical derivative that would result in the designated cash ow hedge achieving expected value of each planned broadcast.
The excess of the cumulative change in the fair value of the actual hedging instrument compared to that of the hypothetical derivative is Movies The cost is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over deemed to be hedge ineffectiveness, which is recognised in the income statement.
the period of broadcast rights.
When a cash ow hedging instrument expires, is terminated or is exercised, or if a Where programme rights are surplus to the Groups requirements, and no gain is hedge no longer meets the qualifying criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative anticipated through a disposal of the rights, or where the programming will not be gain or loss existing in the hedging reserve at that time remains in the hedging broadcast for any other reason, a write-down to the income statement is made.
Any reserve and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the reversals of inventory write-downs are recognised as reductions in operating expense.
income statement, provided that the underlying transaction is still expected to occur.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss ii.
Set-top boxes, routers and related equipment that was reported in the hedging reserve is immediately recognised in the income Set-top boxes including Sky boxes and Sky HD boxes, routers and related statement and all future changes in the fair value of the cash ow hedging equipment are valued at the lower of cost and NRV, the latter of which reects the instruments are immediately recognised in the income statement.
Short-term deposits This includes short-term deposits and commercial paper which have maturity dates of continued more than three months from inception.
These deposits are initially recognised at fair value, and then carried at amortised cost through the income statement less any 1.
Accounting policies continued allowance for impairment losses.
equipment in the hands of the customer, and are recognised through the operating expense line of the income statement.
Any subsidy is expensed on enablement, which v. Trade and other payables is the process of activating the viewing card during installation, so as to enable a Trade and other payables are non-derivative financial liabilities and are measured at viewer to view encrypted broadcast services, and effectively represents the completion amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Trade and other payables with no of the installation process for new subscribers.
The amount recognised in the income stated interest rate are measured at the original invoice amount if the effect of statement is determined on a weighted average cost basis, in accordance with IAS 2 discounting is immaterial.
Raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale Borrowings are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance Raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale are valued at the lower of cost charges, including any premium payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue and NRV.
The cost of raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale is costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement using the recognised through the operating expense line of the income statement on a FIFO effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the underlying basis.
instrument to which they relate, to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
h Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised at fair value plus any directly i Transponder rental prepayments attributable transaction costs.
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether Payments made in respect of future satellite broadcast capacity have been recorded as there is any objective evidence that any financial asset is impaired.
Financial assets and prepaid transponder costs.
These payments are recognised in the income statement on liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a a straight-line basis over the term of the agreement.
party to the contractual provisions of the financial asset or liability.
Financial assets are derecognised from the balance sheet when the Groups contractual rights to the cash j Impairment ows expire or the Group transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of the At each balance sheet date, in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, the financial asset.
Financial liabilities are derecognised from the Groups balance sheet Group reviews the carrying amounts of all its assets excluding inventories see when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
accounting policy g, non-current assets classied as held for sale, financial assets see accounting policy h and deferred taxation see accounting policy p to determine i. Available-for-sale investments whether there is any indication that any of those assets have suffered an impairment Equity investments intended to be held for an indefinite period of time are classied loss.
They are carried at fair value, where this can be reliably measured, with movements in fair value recognised directly in the availableAn impairment, other than an impairment of an investment in a joint venture or for-sale reserve.
Where the fair value cannot be reliably measured, the investment is associate, is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an carried at cost.
asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
An impairment of an investment in a joint venture or associate is recognised within the share of profit from Any impairment losses in equity investments classied as available-for-sale investments joint ventures and associates.
The recoverable amount is the greater of net selling are recognised in the income statement and are not reversible through the income price, dened as the fair value less costs to sell, and value in use.
In assessing value statement, and are determined with reference to the closing market share price at the in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value using a balance sheet date.
Any subsequent increase in the fair value of the available-for-sale pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of investment above the impaired value will be recognised within the available-for-sale money and risks specic to the asset.
Where it is not possible to estimate the reserve.
recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Impairment losses Available-for-sale investments are included within non-current assets unless the recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying carrying value is expected to be recovered principally through sale rather than amount of any goodwill allocated to those units, and then to reduce the carrying continuing use, in which case they are included within current assets.
On disposal, the amount of other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
difference between the carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received and any cumulative gain or loss that had previously been recognised directly in reserves is An impairment loss for an individual asset or cash generating unit shall be reversed if recognised in the income statement.
there has been a change in estimates used to determine the recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised and is only reversed to the extent that the ii.
Trade and other receivables assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been Trade and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been determinable payments and, where no stated interest rate is applicable, are measured recognised.
at the original invoice amount, if the effect of discounting is immaterial.
Where discounting is material, trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost k Provisions using the effective interest method.
An allowance account is maintained to reduce the Provisions are recognised when the Group has a probable, present legal or carrying value of trade and other receivables for impairment losses identied from constructive obligation to make a transfer of economic benets as a result of past objective evidence, with movements in the allowance account, either from increased events where a reliable estimate is available.
The amounts recognised represent the impairment losses or reversals of impairment losses, being recognised in the income Groups best estimate of the transfer of benets that will be required to settle the statement.
obligation as of the balance sheet date.
Provisions are discounted if the effect of the time value of money is material using a pre-tax market rate adjusted for risks specic iii.
Cash and cash equivalents to the liability.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, bank accounts, deposits receivable on demand and deposits with maturity dates of three months or less from the date of inception.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and which form an integral l ESOP reserve part of the Groups cash management are also included as a component of cash and Where the Company or its subsidiaries purchase the Companys own equity shares, the cash equivalents where offset conditions are met.
In accordance with the transitional provisions in IFRS 1, the recognition and m Revenue recognition measurement principles in IFRS 2 have only been applied to options and awards Revenue, which excludes value added tax and transactions between Group companies, grantedafter 7November 2002thathad notvestedby 1 January 2005. represents the gross inow of economic benefit from Skys operating activities.
The Groups main sources of revenue are recognised as follows: o Leases Retail subscription revenue, including subscriptions for Sky TV, Sky Broadband and Leases are classied as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer Sky Talk services, is recognised as the goods or services are provided, net of any substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the asset to the discount given.
Pay-per-view revenue is recognised when the event or movie is lessee.
All other leases are classied as operating leases.
Wholesale revenue is recognised as the services are provided to the cable retailers When the Group is lessor, sublease income from operating leases is recognised on a and is based on the number of subscribers taking the Sky channels, as reported straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
to the Group by the cable retailers, and the applicable rate card or contract.
Advertising sales revenue is recognised when the advertising is broadcast.
When the Group is lessee, assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of Revenue generated from airtime sales, where Sky acts as an agent on behalf of the Group at their fair value on the date of acquisition, or, if lower, at the present third parties, is recognised on a net commission basis.
value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is Sky Bet revenue is recognised in accordance with IAS 39.
Sky Bet revenue included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are represents income in the period for betting and gaming activities, dened as apportioned between finance charges and reductions of the lease obligation so as to amounts staked by customers less winnings paid out.
achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Installation, hardware and service revenue is recognised in the income statement when the goods and services are delivered.
The lease expense arising from operating leases is charged to the income statement Other revenue principally includes income from Sky Active, Sky Card, Sky Mobile on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Benets received and receivable as TV, technical platform services, Easynet Enterprise and Amstrad.
Other revenue is incentives to enter into operating leases are recorded on a straight line basis over the recognised, net of any discount given, when the relevant goods or service are lease term.
p Taxation, including deferred taxation Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
The Groups liability for current tax is based on taxable profit for the year, and is When the Group sells a set-top box, installation or service and a subscription in one calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the bundled transaction, the Group allocates the total arrangement consideration to the balance sheet date.
different individual elements based on their relative fair values.
Management determines the fair value of individual elements based on vendor specic or third party Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised using the balance sheet liability evidence.
The amount of revenue the Group recognises for delivered elements is method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets limited to the cash received.
and liabilities in the balance sheet and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Temporary differences arising from goodwill and the n Employee benets initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting profit nor taxable Wages, salaries, social security contributions, bonuses payable and non-monetary profit are not provided for.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary benets for current employees are recognised in the income statement as the differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint employees services are rendered.
ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the The Group provides pensions to eligible employees through dened contribution foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected schemes.
The amount charged to the income statement in the year represents the cost manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, of contributions payable by the Group to the schemes in exchange for employee using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet services rendered in that year.
The assets of the schemes are held independently of date.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and Termination benets are recognised as a liability when, and only when, the Group has adjusted to reect an amount that is probable to be realised based on the weight of a demonstrable commitment to terminate the employment of an employee or group of all available evidence.
Deferred tax is calculated at the rates that are expected to apply employees before the normal retirement date or as the result of an offer to encourage in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax assets voluntary redundancy.
and liabilities are not discounted.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payments to certain which case the deferred tax is also included within equity.
Deferred tax assets and employees which must be measured at fair value and recognised as an expense in the liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax income statement, with a corresponding increase in equity in the case of equity-settled assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the payments, and liabilities in the case of cash-settled awards.
The fair values of equitysame taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and settled payments are measured at the dates of grant using option-pricing models, liabilities on a net basis.
taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards are granted.
Cash-settled share-based payments are measured at their fair value as at the balance q Distributions to equity shareholders sheet date.
The fair value is recognised over the period during which employees Dividends are recognised in the retained earnings reserve in the year in which they become unconditionally entitled to the awards, subject to the Groups estimate of the are declared.
number of awards which will lapse, either due to employees leaving the Group prior to vesting or due to non-market based performance conditions not being met.
Where The cost of repurchasing the Groups own equity shares for cancellation share buyan award has market-based performance conditions, the fair value of the award is backs is recorded in retained earnings.
In addition, the nominal cost of shares adjusted for the probability of achieving these via the option pricing model.
Accounting policies continued amendments and interpretations in future periods.
r Earnings per share Basic earnings or loss per share representsthe profit orlossfor theyear, dividedby v Critical accounting policies and the use of judgement the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding Certain accounting policies are considered to be critical to the Group.
An accounting the weighted average number of ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held in policy is considered to be critical if its selection or application materially affects the the Groups ESOP during the year to satisfy employee share awards.
Groups financial position or results.
The Directors are required to use their judgement in order to select and apply the Groups critical accounting policies.
Below is a Diluted earnings or loss per share represents the profit or loss for the year, divided by summary of the Groups critical accounting policies and details of the key areas of the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding judgement that are exercised in their application.
the weighted average number of ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held in the Groups ESOP during the year to satisfy employee share awards, plus the weighted i Goodwill see note 12 average number of dilutive shares resulting from share options where the inclusion of Judgement is required in determining the fair value of identiable assets, these would not be antidilutive.
liabilities and contingent assets assumed in a business combination.
Calculating the fair values involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including s Foreign currency translation expectations about future cash ows, discount rates and the lives of assets The Groups functional currency and presentational currency is pounds sterling.
activities denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in pounds sterling at the Judgement is also required in evaluating whether any impairment loss has arisen applicable monthly exchange rates.
Monetary assets, liabilities and commitments against the carrying amount of goodwill.
This may require calculation of the denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates recoverable amount of cash generating units to which the goodwill is associated.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign Such a calculation may involve estimates of the net present value of future currencies are translated to pounds sterling at the exchange rate prevailing at the date forecast cash ows and selecting an appropriate discount rate.
Alternatively, it may of the initial transaction.
Gains and losses from the retranslation of assets and involve a calculation of the fair value less costs to sell of the applicable cash liabilities are included net in profit for the year, except for exchange differences arising generating unit.
on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity.
ii Revenue see note 2 Selecting the appropriate timing for, and amount of, revenue to be recognised The assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange requires judgement.
This may involve estimating the fair value of consideration rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at before it is received.
When the Group sells a set-top box, installation or service the applicable monthly average exchange rates.
Any exchange differences arising are and a subscription in one bundled transaction, the total consideration from the classied as equity and transferred to other reserves.
arrangement is allocated to each element based on their relative fair values.
The fair value of each individual element is determined using vendor specic or third t Reportable segments party evidence on a periodic basis.
The amount of revenue the Group recognises A reportable segment, as dened by IAS 14 Segment Reporting, is a distinguishable for delivered elements is limited to the cash received.
business or geographical component of the Group, that provides products or services, Judgement is also required in evaluating the likelihood of collection of customer that are subject to risks and rewards that are different from those of other segments.
debt after revenue has been recognised.
This evaluation requires estimates to be The Group considers its primary reporting format to be business segments.
The Group made, including the level of provision to be made for amounts with uncertain considers that it has only one reportable segment, being the Broadcast segment.
Provisions are based on historical trends in the percentage of the revenue, results, assets and cash ows of the Broadcast segment are substantially debts which are not recovered, or on more detailed reviews of individually the same to those of the consolidated Group, no separate analysis has been provided.
u Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to existing iii Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment see notes 13 and 14 standards that are not yet effective The assessment of the useful economic lives of these assets requires judgement.
The Group has not yet adopted certain new standards, amendments and Depreciation and amortisation is charged to the income statement based on the interpretations to existing standards, which have been published but are only effective useful economic life selected.
This assessment requires estimation of the period for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008, or later periods.
These new over which the Group will benefit from the assets.
standards are listed below: Determining whether the carrying amount of these assets has any indication of impairment also requires judgement.
If an indication of impairment is identied, IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements effective from 1 January 2008. further judgement is required to assess whether the carrying amount can be IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Dened benefit Asset, Minimum Funding supported by the net present value of future cash ows forecast to be derived Requirements and their Interaction effective from 1 January 2008. from the asset.
This forecast involves cash ow projections and selecting the IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes effective from 1 July 2008. appropriate discount rate.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation effective from Assessing whether assets meet the required criteria for initial capitalisation 1 October 2008. requires judgement.
This requires a determination of whether the assets will IAS 1 revised Presentation of Financial Statements effective from 1 January result in future benets to the Group.
In particular, internally generated intangible 2009. assets must be assessed during the development phase to identify whether the IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation effective 1 January 2009.
Group has the ability and intention to complete the development successfully.
Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs effective from 1 January 2009.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments effective from 1 January 2009. iv Programming inventory see note 18 IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate effective from 1 January The key area of accounting for programming inventory requiring judgement is the 2009. assessment of the appropriate prole over which to recognise amortisation in the Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-Based Payments effective from 1 January 2009. income statement.
This assessment requires the Group to form an expectation of Amendments to IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting the number of times a programme will be broadcast and the value associated Standards effective 1 January 2009. with each broadcast.
Acquired movie rights are amortised on a straightline basis over the period of the transmission rights.
Where contracts for sports rights provide for multiple seasons or competitions, they are amortised on a straight-line basis across the season or competition as our estimate of the benets received from these rights is determined to be most appropriately aligned with a straight-line amortisation prole.
v Deferred tax see note 17 The key area of judgement in respect of deferred tax accounting is the assessment of the expected timing and manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities held at the balance sheet date.
In particular, assessment is required of whether it is probable that there will be suitable future taxable profits against which any deferred tax assets can be utilised.
vi Available-for-sale investments see note 16 The key areas of judgement in respect of available-for-sale investments are the assessment of whether there is objective evidence that a loss event has occurred after initial recognition of an available-for-sale investment, and whether such a loss event has a reliably measurable impact on the estimated future cash ows of the investment.
At each balance sheet date, management consider whether there is objective evidence that a loss event has occurred and whether it has had an impact on the estimated future cash ows of the available-for-sale investment.
If a loss event has occurred, management would then consider whether an impairment loss has occurred and the quantum of that loss.
As at 30 June 2008, the Groups available-for-sale investments included a material investment in ITV plc ITV which has been impaired in the year.
The factors management considered in determining whether an impairment loss in ITV had occurred included observable data about the estimated future cash ows of ITV based on ITVs publicly available financial reporting and announcements, publicly available information from financial commentators about ITV and the market in which it operates, the historical performance of ITVs share price, and the regulatory environment affecting ITV and the Group.
The impairment losses accounted for have been determined with reference to closing market share prices at the balance sheet date see accounting policy j. vii Taxation see note 9 Tax laws that apply to the Groups businesses may be amended by the relevant authorities, for example as a result of changes in scal circumstances or priorities.
Such potential amendments and their application to the Group are regularly monitored and the requirement for recognition of any liabilities assessed where necessary.
The Group is subject to income taxes and judgement is required in determining the appropriate provision for transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
In such circumstances, the Group recognises liabilities for anticipated taxes due based on best information available and where the anticipated liability is probable and estimable.
Where the final outcome of such matters differs from the amounts initially recorded, any differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period to which such determination is made.
