at-rate fee, shareholders can have their dividends automatically converted from Sterling and paid into their nominated bank account, normally within five working Our ordinary shares are admitted to the Ofcial List of the London Stock Exchange and days of the dividend payment date.
For further details, please contact Equiniti Limited our ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
The principal trading market for on 44 121 415 7567. our ordinary shares is the London Stock Exchange.
The Bank of New York Mellon is the depositary of the American Depositary Receipts, which evidence the ADSs.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan The Company operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP which enables Registrars shareholders to buy the Companys shares on the London stock market with their cash Equiniti Limited dividend.
Further information about the DRIP is available from Equiniti Limited.
The Aspect House helpline number is 0871 384 2268 from inside the UK and 44 121 415 7173 from Spencer Road overseas.
Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone 0871 384 2091 ShareGift Overseas 44 121 415 7567 Shareholders who only have a small number of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them may wish to consider donating them to charity through ShareGift, the independent charity share donation scheme registered charity no.
Further information about ShareGift may be obtained from Equiniti Limited The Bank of New York Mellon or from ShareGift on 020 7337 0501 or at www.
There are no Investor Services implications for capital gains tax purposes no gain or loss on gifts of shares to charity P. O.
Box 11258 and it is also possible to claim income tax relief.
Church Street Station New York, NY 10286-1258 Telephone US 1-888-BNY-ADRS Shareholder fraud Telephone International 1 212 815-3700 Fraud is on the increase and many shareholders are targeted every year.
com any reason to believe that you may have been the target of a fraud, or attempted fraud in relation to your shareholding, please contact Equiniti Limited immediately.
To reduce the risk of fraud happening to you please see our list of preventing Shareholder enquiries shareholder fraud tips on our website at www.
All administrative enquiries relating to unregistered shareholders, such as notication of change of address or the loss of a share certicate, should be made to Equiniti Limited, whose address is given above.
ADS holders should contact The Bank of New Share price information York Mellon if they have a query relating to their holding.
The Companys share price can be found on the Companys corporate website at www.
com corporate and it also appears in the financial columns of the national press under the prex BSkyB.
Shares online The Company provides a range of shareholder information online at ADS holders can access the latest ADS price at www.
com or by visiting The Bank www.
Shareholders can access and view their shareholding and of New York Mellons website, www.
update their details at www.
The following tables set forth for the periods indicated the highest and lowest middle Electronic shareholder communication market quotations for the ordinary shares as derived from the Daily Ofcial List of the At the Companys AGM in November 2007, the Company gained shareholder approval London Stock Exchange and the highest and lowest sales prices of the ADSs as to adopt changes in the law governing electronic communication.
This allows the reported on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape.
Company to use its corporate website as the main way to communicate with i shareholders, sending out Annual Reports only to those who have opted to receive a Shares ADSs paper copy.
pence $ High Low High Low The Board regards this as a positive step for both the Company and shareholders.
It will reduce our impact on the environment, minimise waste and reduce costs.
It will Fiscal year ended 30 June 1 6 13 2 25 50 also enable stakeholders to keep updated with developments at Sky as they happen by 2004 776 584 59 40 1 33 39 2005 625 465 2 46 100 33 50 accessing our website.
1 49 4 2006 579 478 2 42 100 33 5 1 1 99 47 2007 663 2 517 2 52 100 37 50 Shareholders who have opted to receive shareholder communications in paper form 1 7 33 2008 713 2 465 58 10 36 50 are encouraged to receive these electronically in future by registering at www.
Shareholders can also change their instructions at any time by contacting Equiniti Limited.
Dividends Shareholders can have their dividends paid directly into a UK bank or building society account with the tax voucher sent direct to their registered address.
Please contact Equiniti Limited for a dividend mandate form.
During the financial year the Company introduced a new consolidated tax voucher service for those shareholders who have chosen to receive dividends directly into their bank account.
A single consolidated tax voucher will be mailed by the end of November each year, to coincide with the final dividend payment.
Full details are available at www.
On 12 May 2007 News Corporation further notied us that its interest in our shares had increased to 38.02%.
On 26 September 2006 News High Low High Low Corporation further notied us that its interest in our shares had increased to 39.03%.
Fiscal year ended 30 June These increases were as a result of the Companys share buy-back programme.
As at 2007 27 September 2006, the date of the last share repurchase by the Company under the 1 61 47 First Quarter 569 517 2 43 100 37 50 share buy-back programme, News Corporation had a 39.14% interest in our shares.
1 67 71 Second Quarter 560 2 519 42 100 40 100 The number of shares held by News Corporation remains unchanged.
1 49 33 Fourth Quarter 580 2 465 45 50 36 50 On 4 October 2007, Legal & General Group plc notied us that it had a 3.03% interest in our shares.
i Shares ADSs pence $ On 19 April 2006, Janus Capital Management LLC Janus notied us that it had a High Low High Low 3.86% interest in our shares.
On 5 March 2007, Janus notied us that it no longer had a notiable interest in our shares as its holding had decreased below 3%.
On Month ended 1 81 7 March 2007, Janus further notied us that its interest in our shares had increased to 31 January 2008 610 506 48 20 40 100 1 7 79 3.07%.
On 1 July 2008, Janus notied us that it no longer had a notiable interest in 2 25 100 29 February 2008 596 539 47 41 1 3 23 oursharesasits holdinghad decreasedbelow 3%.
2 100 100 31 March 2008 566 524 45 42 1 1 49 37 2 2 50 100 30 April 2008 580 536 45 42 29 1 Franklin Resources, Inc. notied us of the following changes in its interest in our 31 May 2008 548 516 43 50 40 5 1 79 33 shares: 30 June 2008 546 2 465 42 100 36 50 Percentage i Each ADS represents four ordinary shares up until 23 December 2002, each ADS Date notied ownership represented six ordinary shares.
Prior year ADS figures in the above tables have been 11 July 2005 9.01% restated to reflect this change in ratio.
2 February 2006 10.09% 23 May 2006 9.98% Major shareholders 21 June 2006 10.00% The following table sets forth, as of 30 July 2008, the amount and percentage of ordinary shares owned by each shareholder, including our Directors and Ofcers as a On 2 March 2007 Franklin Resources, Inc. notied us that under the Financial Services group, known to us to own more than 3% directly and indirectly of our ordinary Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR it was no longer subject to a shares.
notication obligation as it had been able to claim an exemption from the requirement Identity of person or group Amount owned Percent of class to aggregate its holdings with those of its subsidiaries and it holds less than 3% of the Companys issued share capital.
Franklin Resources, Inc. further informed us that i News UK Nominees Limited 686,021,700 39.14 Templeton Global Advisors Limited Templeton, a wholly owned subsidiary of ii Brandes Investment Partners L. P. 56,867,820 3.12 Franklin Resources Inc. had a 6.04% interest in our shares and that it is subject to a ii The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 55,977,854 3.10 notication obligation under the DTR on the basis that as a discretionary manager it is ii Legal&GeneralGroup plc 53,183,483 3.03 an indirect shareholder.
On 14 May 2007, Franklin Resources Inc. further notied us that Templetons interest in our shares had decreased to 5.89%.
On 5 September i Direct holding which is subject to restrictions on its voting rights please see 2007, Franklin Resources Inc. notied us that it no longer had a notiable interest in Memorandum and Articles of Association Alteration of share capital on page 117. our shares as its holding had decreased below 5%.
Templeton qualies as an ii Indirect holding.
investment rm under the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and therefore, in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, it does not have a disclosure At 30 July 2008, 39.14% of the Companys shares are held by News UK Nominees obligation when the voting rights attached to its shareholding in the Company do not Limited, a company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales which is an exceed 5%.
indirect wholly owned subsidiary of News Corporation.
According to News Corporations Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended 31 March 2008 On 4 May 2006 Harris Associates L. P. notied us that it had a 3.03% interest in our led with the SEC on 8 May 2008, as a result of Rupert Murdochs ability to appoint shares.
On 30 May 2007, Harris Associates L. P notied us that it no longer had a certain members of the Board of Directors of the corporate trustee of the Murdoch notiable interest in our shares as its holding had decreased below 3%.
Family Trust, which beneficially owns 0.9% of News Corporations Class A Common Stock and 37.2% of its Class B Common Stock, Rupert Murdoch may be deemed to be On 2 August 2005, Barclays PLC notied us that its interest in our shares had a beneficial owner of the shares beneficially owned by the Murdoch Family Trust.
On 29 June 2006, Barclays PLC further notied us that its interest Rupert Murdoch, however, disclaims any beneficial ownership of those shares.
Also, in our shares had decreased to 3.85%.
On 22 November 2006, Barclays PLC notied Rupert Murdoch beneficially owns an additional 1.3% of News Corporations Class A us that it no longer had a notiable interest in our shares as its holding had Common Stock and 1.3% of its Class B Common Stock.
Thus, Rupert Murdoch may be decreased below 3%.
On 23 November 2006, Barclays notied us that its interest in deemed to beneficially own in the aggregate 2.2% of News Corporations Class A our shares had increased to 3.05%.
On 4 December 2006 Barclays PLC notied us that Common Stock and 38.6% of its Class B Common Stock.
it no longer had a notiable interest in our shares as its holding had decreased below 3%.
For a On 26 June 2006, Fidelity notied us that it had a 3.06% interest in our shares.
On discussion of the impact of exchange rate movements on our financial condition and 17 August 2006, Fidelity notied us that it no longer had a notiable interest in our results of operations, see note 23 of the consolidated financial statements Derivatives shares as its holding had decreased below 3%.
Major shareholders have the same voting rights as all other shareholders.
A voting Since any dividends we declare are declared in pounds sterling, exchange rate agreement dated 21 September 2005 was entered into between the Company, BSkyB uctuations will affect the US dollar equivalent of cash dividends receivable by holders Holdco Inc, News Corporation and News UK Nominees Limited which became of ADSs.
unconditional on 4 November 2005 and caps News UK Nominees Limited voting rights at any general meeting at 37.19%.
The provisions of the voting agreement cease to The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, information concerning the apply on the first to occur of a number of circumstances which include the date on noon buying rates provided by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for pounds which a general offer is made by an independent person as dened in the voting sterling expressed in US dollars per 1.00. agreement for the ordinary share capital of the Company.
Month High Low The Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP was established to satisfy awards made December 2007 2.0658 1.9774 to participants of the Companys employee share plans.
The trustees of the ESOP have January 2008 1.9895 1.9515 waived the right to dividends payable in respect of the shares held by it, except to the February 2008 1.9923 1.9405 extent of 0.0001% of the dividend payable on each share.
At 30 June 2008, the ESOP March 2008 2.0311 1.9823 had an interest in 6,201,575 of the Companys ordinary shares.
com details the Companys product offering and provides i The average rate is calculated by using the average of the noon buying rates on the last a link to the Companys corporate website where investor and media information can day of each month during the relevant year.
Companys registered ofce: Grant Way Memorandum and Articles of Association Isleworth The following summarises certain provisions of the Companys Memorandum and Middlesex TW7 5QD Articles of Association and applicable English Law.
The summary is qualied in its Telephone 0870 240 3000 entirety by reference to the Companys Articles of Association, the Companies Act 1985 Overseas 44 20 7705 3000 of Great Britain the 1985 Act and the Companies Act 2006 of Great Britain the 2006 Act together the Acts.
The 2006 Act is being brought into force and the Company registration number 1985 Act is being repealed in stages between January 2007 and October 2009.
2247735 Information on where shareholders can inspect copies of the Memorandum and Chartered Accountants and Independent Registered Public Accounting Articles of Association is provided under Documents on display below.
Firm Deloitte & Touche LLP Objects and purposes Stonecutter Court Sky is incorporated under the name British Sky Broadcasting Group plc and is 1 Stonecutter Street registered in England and Wales with registered number 2247735.
The Memorandum London EC4A 4TR of Association of the Company provides that the Companys principal object is to carry on the business of direct broadcasting by satellite and to carry out the other objects Principal bankers more particularly set out in Clause 4 of the Memorandum of Association of the Royal Bank of Scotland Company.
St. Andrews Square Edinburgh EH2 2YB Directors The Companys Articles of Association provide for a Board of Directors, consisting of Solicitors not fewer than three Directors, who shall manage the business and affairs of the Herbert Smith LLP Company.
The quorum for meetings of the Directors is currently three Directors.
The Exchange House Directors may delegate any of their powers to a committee which must consist of one Primrose Street or more Directors, and a majority of the members of a committee shall be Directors.
The Articles of Association place a general prohibition on a Director voting in respect i all Directors of the Company who are subject to retirement by rotation who held of any contract or arrangement in which he has a material interest other than by ofce at the time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire by rotation virtue of his interest in shares in the Company.
However, in the absence of some other at either of them: and material interest not indicated below, a Director is entitled to vote and to be counted in a quorum for the purpose of any vote relating to a resolution concerning the ii such additional number of Directors as shall, when aggregated with the number following matters: of Directors retiring under paragraph i above, equal either one third of the number of Directors, in circumstances where the number of Directors is three or i the giving of any guarantee, security or indemnity to him in respect of money lent a multiple of three, or in all other circumstances, the whole number which is to, or obligations incurred by him at the request of, or for the benefit of, the nearest to but does not exceed one-third of the number of Directors the Company or any of its subsidiaries: Relevant Proportion provided that: ii the giving of any guarantee, security or indemnity to a third party in respect of a a the provisions of this paragraph ii shall only apply if the number of debt or obligation of the Company or any of its subsidiaries for which he himself Directors retiring under paragraph i above is less than the Relevant has assumed responsibility in whole or in part under a guarantee or indemnity or Proportion: and by the giving of security: b subject to the provisions of the Acts and to the relevant provisions of these iii any proposal concerning an offer of any shares or debentures or other securities Articles, the Directors to retire under this paragraph ii shall be those who of or by the Company for subscription, purchase or exchange in which offer he is, have been longest in ofce since their last appointment or reappointment, or is to be, interested as a participant in the underwriting or sub-underwriting but asbetween personswho became or were last reappointed Directors on thereof: the same day those to retire shall unless they otherwise agree among themselves be determined by lot.
iv any proposal concerning a superannuation fund or retirement benets scheme which has been approved by, or is subject to, and conditional upon approval by Borrowing powers the Board of the HMRC for taxation purposes: The Directors shall restrict the borrowings of the Company and exercise all powers of control exercisable by the Company in relation to its subsidiary undertakings so as to v any arrangement for the benefit of employees of the Company or any of its secure as regards subsidiary undertakings so far as by such exercise they can secure subsidiaries including but not limited to, an employees share scheme which has that the aggregate principal amount outstanding of all money borrowed by the Group been approved by, or is subject to and conditional upon approval by, the Board of excluding amounts borrowed by any member of the Group from any other member the HMRC for taxation purposes and which does not accord to any Directors any of the Group, shall not at any time, save with the previous sanction of an ordinary privilege not accorded to the employees to whom the arrangement relates: and resolution of the Company, exceed an amount equal to the higher of i 1.5 billion and ii an amount equal to four times the aggregate turnover of the Group as shown vi any proposal concerning the purchase or maintenance of insurance for the benefit in the then latest audited consolidated profit and loss accounts of the Group.
of Directors or persons who include Directors.
Dividend rights The 1985 Act requires a Director of a company who is in any way interested in a Holders of the Companys ordinary shares may by ordinary resolution declare dividends contract or proposed contract with the company to declare the nature of his interest at but no such dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
If, in a meeting of the Directors of the company.
The denition of interest now includes the opinion of the Directors, the profits of the Company available for distribution justify the interests of spouses, children, companies and trusts.
The Articles also specically such payments, the Directors may, from time to time, pay interim dividends on the provide that a Director is to be treated as interested in a matter the subject of a shares of such amounts and on such dates and in respect of such periods as they resolution if it relates to a transaction or arrangement with a person or body corporate think t. The profits of the Company available for distribution and resolved to be of or in which he is an officer, employee, shareholder, consultant, advisor, distributed shall be apportioned and paid proportionately to the amounts paid up on representative or otherwise interested.
Any question as to the right of a Director to the shares during any portion of the period in respect of which the dividend is paid.
vote, including whether he has a material interest in a material matter the subject of a resolution, may be decided by a resolution of the majority of those Directors who do No dividend shall be paid otherwise than out of profits available for distribution as not have a like interest to the Director or Directors in question.
specified under the provisions of the Acts.
No person shall be disqualified from being appointed or reappointed as a Director and Any dividend unclaimed after a period of twelve years from the date of declaration of no Director shall be requested to vacate that ofce by reason of his attaining the age such dividend shall be forfeited and shall revert to the Company.
of seventy or any other age.
Voting rights Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors shall be determined in the aggregate by The Articles of Association provide that subject to any rights or restrictions attached to resolution of the shareholders.
Remuneration of executive Directors is determined by any shares, on a show of hands every member present in person or by proxy shall the remuneration committee.
This committee is made up of independent Nonhave one vote, and on a poll every member shall have one vote for every share of Executive Directors.
On a poll votes may be given either personally or by proxy or in the case of a corporate member by a duly authorised representative.
There is no requirement of share ownership for a Directors qualication.
A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at a general meeting may appoint one or Directors appointment and removal more proxies to attend and vote instead of him.
If a member appoints more than one The Directors and the Company by Ordinary Resolution may appoint a person who is proxy he must specify the number of shares which each proxy is entitled to exercise willing to act as a Director, either to ll a vacancy or as an additional Director.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
Holders of the Director appointed by the Directors shall retire at the next AGM and will put himself Companys ordinary shares do not have cumulative voting rights.
forward to be reappointed by the shareholders.
Memorandum and Articles of Association Limitations on non-resident or foreign shareholders English law and the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company treat continued those persons who hold shares and are neither UK residents nor nationals in the same way as UK residents or nationals.
They are free to own, vote on and transfer any Winding-up shares they hold.
If the Company commences liquidation, the liquidator may, with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution of the Company and any other sanction required by the Acts and the Insolvency Act 1986: Transfer of shares Any member may transfer all or any of his shares by instrument of transfer in the i divide among the members in kind the whole or any part of the assets of the usual common form or in any other form which the Directors may approve.
The Company whether they shall consist of property of the same kind or not and, for instrument of transfer of a share shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and, that purpose, set such values as he deems fair upon any property to be divided except in the case of fully-paid shares, by or on behalf of the transferee.
and determine how the division shall be carried out between the members: and Where any class of shares is for the time being a participating security, title to shares ii vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees upon such trusts for the of that class which are recorded as being held in uncerticated form, may be benefit of members as the liquidator shall think t, transferred by the relevant system concerned.
The Directors may in their absolute discretion and without giving any reason refuse to register any transfer of shares not but no member shall be compelled to accept any share or other assets upon which being fully paid shares.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of shares there is any liability.
unless the instrument of transfer: i is lodged at the transfer ofce accompanied by the relevant share certicate s : Redemption None of the shares of the Company has been issued on the basis that it may be ii is in respect of only one class of share: and redeemed or is liable to be redeemed at the option of the shareholders or the Company.
The Company is therefore under no obligation to create a sinking fund or iii is in favour of not more than four persons jointly.
However, subject to the provisions of the Statutes, the Company may purchase any of its own shares including any redeemable shares.
The Directors of the Company may refuse to register the transfer of a share in   incerticated form in any Further capital calls case where the Company is entitled to refuse or is excepted from the requirements The Directors may only make calls upon the members in respect of amounts unpaid under the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001 to register the transfer: and they on the shares whether in respect of nominal value or premium.
may refuse to register any such transfer in favour of more than four transferees.
The Directors may refuse to register any transfer if it is their opinion that such transfer Variation of rights would or might i prejudice the Groups right to hold, be awarded or granted or have Subject to the Acts, the rights attached to any class of shares may unless otherwise renewed or extended, any licence granted under the Broadcasting Acts, or ii give rise provided by the terms of the issue of shares of that class be varied with the consent to or cause a variation to be made to, or a revocation or determination of, any such in writing of the holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the licence by Ofcom.
class or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of the class but not otherwise and may be so If the Directors determine following registration of a transfer of shares: varied either whilst the Company is a going concern or during, or in contemplation of, a winding-up.
At every such separate general meeting the necessary quorum shall be i and following consultation with Ofcom that, inter alia, by reason of the interest of at least two persons holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal a person in any shares of the Company transferred, Ofcom may vary, revoke, value of the issued shares of the class but so that at any adjourned meeting any determine or refuse to award, grant, renew or extend a licence granted under the holder of shares of the class present in person or by proxy shall be a quorum.
Broadcasting Acts: or General meetings ii that any person has an interest in the shares of the Company which, inter alia, The Directors may call an annual general meeting or a general meeting and give at makes the Company a disqualified person under the Broadcasting Acts or which least such minimum period of notice as is prescribed under the Acts.
The notice shall contravenes, or would cause a contravention of, any of the restrictions set out in specify the place, the date and the time of the meeting and the general nature of the Parts III, IV or V of Schedule 2 to the Broadcasting Act 1990, as amended by the business to be transacted, and in the case of an annual general meeting shall specify Communications Act, or any order, direction or notice made pursuant to the the meeting as such.
Two persons entitled to vote upon the business to be transacted Broadcasting Acts or Communications Act or such other restrictions as may be shall be a quorum.
applied by Ofcom from time to time to disqualify certain persons or bodies from having interests in such a licence or to restrict the accumulation of interests in Subject to any terms as to voting upon which any shares may be issued and to the relevant services as dened in Schedule 2 to the Broadcasting Act 1990, as provisions of the Articles, every member present in person or by proxy shall have one amended by the Communications Act: vote on a show of hands and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for each share of which he is the holder.
No member shall be the Directors shall be entitled to serve written notice a Disposal Notice on the entitled to vote in respect of any share held by him if any call or other sum payable relevant transferee in respect of the shares transferred stating that they have so by him to the Company remains unpaid.
determined, specifying their grounds in general terms and calling for the disposal of such transferred shares as are specified in the Disposal Notice within 21 days of the If a member or any person appearing to be interested in shares has been duly served date of such notice or such longer period as the Directors may consider reasonable with a notice under Section 793 of the 2006 Act and is in default for the prescribed and which they may extend.
If the Disposal Notice is not complied with to the period in supplying to the Company information thereby required, unless the Directors satisfaction of the Directors, they shall, so far as they are able, dispose of the relevant otherwise determine, the member shall not be entitled to vote at any general or class shares for the best price reasonably obtainable in all the circumstances.
In addition, a meeting of the Company in respect of the shares in relation to which the default member who has been served with a Disposal Notice shall not, with effect from the occurred.
The holding of News UK Nominees Limited, following the exercise of the ordinary shares of 50p each.
authority, increased from 37.19% to 39.14% of the Companys issued share capital.
The authority expired on 3 November 2006 and the Directors did not seek its renewal.
The Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution: i increase its share capital by such sum to be divided into shares of such amounts Issue of shares as the resolution shall prescribe: Subject to the provisions of the Statutes relating to authority, pre-emption rights and otherwise and of any resolution of the Company passed in general meeting, all ii consolidate and divide all or any of its share capital into shares of larger amount unissued shares shall be at the disposal of the Directors and they may allot with or than its existing shares: without conferring a right to renunciation, grant options over, or otherwise dispose of them to such persons, at such times and on such terms as they think proper.
iii cancel any shares which, at the date of the passing of the resolution, have not been taken, or agreed to be taken, by any person and diminish the amount of its Disclosure of interests in the Companys shares capital by the amount of the shares so cancelled: or There are no provisions in the Articles whereby persons acquiring, holding or disposing of a certain percentage of the Companys shares are required to make iv sub-divide its shares, or any of them, into shares of smaller amount than is xed disclosure of their ownership percentage, although there are such requirements under by the Memorandum of Association subject, nevertheless, to the provisions of the the Disclosure and Transparency Rules specically DTR 5 which form part of the Statutes.
Listing Rules which are enforced by the United Kingdoms Financial Services Authority.
Subject to the provisions of the Acts, the Company may reduce its share capital Under Section 793 of the 2006 Act, the Company may by notice in writing require a redemption reserve, share premium account or other undistributable reserve in any person that the Company knows or has reasonable cause to believe is or was during way.
the preceding three years interested in the Companys shares to indicate whether or not that is correct and, if that person does or did hold an interest in the Companys At the AGM of the Company held on 4 November 2005, shareholders approved a shares, to provide certain information as set out in the 2006 Act.
special resolution allowing the Company to buy-back up to 92,000,000 ordinary shares in the market, which was approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the There are additional disclosure obligations under Rule 3 of the Substantial Acquisitions Company at 27 September 2005.
At the same AGM, shareholders approved an ordinary Rules where a person acquires 15% or more of the voting rights of a listed company resolution in relation to Rule 9 of the City Code of Takeovers and Mergers the City or when an acquisition increases his holding of shares or rights over shares so as to Code which waived the compulsory bid obligation that arises for News UK Nominees increase his voting rights beyond that level by a whole percentage point.
Notication in Limited when the Company repurchases shares under the authority granted by the this case should be to the Company, the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers and the UK special resolution detailed above.
Under Rule 9 of the City Code, any person who Listing Authority through one of its approved regulatory information services no later acquires shares which, taken together with the shares already held by him or acquired than twelve noon on the business day following the date of the acquisition.
by persons acting in concert with him, carry 30% or more of the voting rights in a company which is subject to the City Code is normally required to make a general The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also contains strict disclosure requirements offer to all of the remaining shareholders to acquire their shares.
Similarly, when any with regard to dealings in the securities of an offeror or offeree company on all person or persons acting in concert already hold 30% or more but less than 50% of parties to a takeover and also to their respective associates during the course of an the voting rights in such a company, a general offer will normally be required to be offer period.
made if any further shares are acquired.
An offer under Rule 9 must be in cash at the highest price paid within the preceding 12 months for any shares acquired in the Exchange controls Company by the person required to make the offer or any person acting in concert There are no UK government laws, decrees, regulations or other legislation which with him.
The holding of News UK Nominees Limited as at the date of the AGM was restrict or which may affect the import or export of capital, including the availability of 686,021,700 ordinary shares, representing 37.19% of the voting rights in the cash and cash equivalents for use by us or the remittance of dividends, interest and Company.
If the compulsory bid obligation under Rule 9 had not been waived and the other payments to non-resident holders of our securities, except as otherwise Company had repurchased shares under the authority granted by the special resolution described in the Memorandum and Articles of Association Dividend rights section detailed above and, at the time, the voting rights attributable to the aggregate holding above, and the Taxation section below.
of News UK Nominees Limited had continued to exceed 30% of the voting rights of the Company or, if, in the meantime, its holding had fallen below this level and, as a Under English law and the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, result had increased to 30% or more of such voting rights, News UK Nominees persons who are neither residents nor nationals of the UK may freely hold, vote and Limited would have been required to make a cash offer for the issued shares of the transfer ordinary shares in the same manner as UK residents or nationals.
Company which it did not already own.
The Panel agreed to waive the compulsory bid obligation arising in respect of a repurchase by the Company of its shares subject to Taxation approval of the ordinary resolution on a poll, subsequently received at the AGM, from This section summarises basic UK and US tax consequences of the acquisition, shareholders independent of News UK Nominees Limited.
The waiver in this ordinary ownership and disposition of shares and ADSs by a US Holder.
For purposes of this resolution, which is valid only for so long as the authority granted pursuant to the summary, a US Holder is a beneficial owner of shares or ADSs who is i an special resolution detailed above remains in force, applies only in respect of increases individual who is a citizen or resident of the US for US income tax purposes, ii a in the percentage interest of News UK Nominees Limited resulting from market corporation organised under the laws of the US or any state thereof or the District of purchases by the Company of its own shares and not in respect of other increases in Columbia, iii a domestic partnership, iv an estate the income of which is subject to its holding.
US federal income taxation regardless of its source, or v a trust if a court within the US is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one In addition, in pursuing a buy-back authority, the Board considered that it was or more US persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
appropriate that the Company conditionally entered into a voting agreement with News However, in the case of a partnership, estate or trust, this discussion applies only to UK Nominees Limited, dated 21 September 2005, which would limit the exercise of its the extent such entitys income is taxed to the entity or its partners or beneciaries on voting rights to 37.19%.
The voting agreement was conditional on the buy-back a net income basis under US tax law.
Dividends paid by the Company with respect to Ordinary Shares or ADSs generally will be qualied dividend income.
the Treaty, and iv in part upon representations of The Bank of New York the Depositary and assumes that each obligation provided for in or otherwise Any non-US withholding tax with respect to a dividend may be used as a credit contemplated by the Deposit Agreement dated as of December 2002, among the against a US Holders US federal income tax liability, subject to certain conditions and Company, the Depositary, and the holders from time to time of the ADSs of the limitations.
Company the Deposit Agreement, and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with their respective terms.
The amount of any dividend paid in non-US currency will be equal to the US dollar value of such currency on the date the dividend is included in income, regardless of The summary of UK tax consequences relates to the material aspects of the UK whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars.
A US Holder will generally taxation position of US Holders and does not address the tax consequences to a US be required to recognise US source ordinary income or loss when such US Holder Holder i that is resident or, in the case of an individual, ordinarily resident in the sells or disposes of non-US currency.
The US Holder will have a tax basis in this nonUK for UK tax purposes, ii whose holding of shares or ADSs is effectively connected US currency equal to the US dollar value of the currency on the date the dividend is with a permanent establishment in the UK through which such US Holder carries on included in the US Holders income.
This foreign currency gain or loss will generally business activities or, in the case of an individual who performs independent personal be US source ordinary income or loss.
services, with a xed base situated therein, or iii that is a corporation which alone or together with one or more associated companies, controls directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of the Company.
The discussion set forth below is only a Taxation of capital gains general summary and does not purport to be a technical analysis nor a description of US Holders who are not resident or ordinarily resident for tax purposes in the UK will not be liable for UK tax on capital gains realised on the disposal of their ADSs or all possible tax consequences.
shares unless they carry on a trade in the UK through a branch, agency or permanent establishment, or a profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency and The summary of US tax consequences may not completely or accurately describe tax consequences to all US Holders.
For example, special rules may apply to US Holders of such ADSs or shares are used, held or acquired for the purposes of the trade, stock representing 10% or more of the total combined voting power of the Company, profession, vocation, branch, agency or permanent establishment.
An individual US US expatriates, insurance companies, tax-exempt organisations, banks and other Holder who has ceased to be resident and ordinarily resident in the UK for tax financial institutions, persons subject to the alternative minimum tax, securities brokerpurposes for a period of less than five years, and who disposes of his or her shares or dealers, traders in securities that elect to mark-to-market, and persons holding their ADSs during that period, may be liable on his or her return to the UK to UK capital shares or ADSs as part of a straddle, hedging or conversion transaction, among others.
gains tax on any chargeable gain realised.
The surrender of ADSs in exchange for shares should not usually give rise to UK corporation tax, or US or UK capital gains Tax consequences to each US Holder will depend upon the particular facts and tax.
circumstances of each such holder.
Accordingly, each person should consult with his own professional advisor with respect to the tax consequences of his ownership and In general, for US federal income tax purposes, a US Holder will recognise capital gain disposition of shares or ADSs.
This summary does not discuss any tax rules other than or loss if such US Holder sells or exchanges shares or ADSs, provided that such shares UK tax and US federal income tax rules.
The UK and US tax authorities and courts are or ADSs are capital assets in the hands of such US Holder subject to the discussion not bound by this summary and may disagree with its conclusions.
below under US passive foreign investment company rules.
Any gain or loss will generally be US source gain or loss.
For an individual, any capital gain will generally US HoldersofADSswill be treated as owners of the shares underlying the ADSs.
be subject to US federal income tax at preferential rates if the individual has held the Accordingly, except as noted, the UK and US tax consequences discussed below apply shares or ADSs for more than one year.
equally to US Holders of ADSs and shares.
US passive foreign investment company rules Taxation of distributions The Company believes that it will not be treated as a passive foreign investment Under current UK taxation legislation, no tax is withheld from dividend payments by company PFIC for US federal income tax purposes for the current taxable year or the Company and generally no UK tax is payable by US Holders who are not resident for future taxable years.
However, an actual determination of PFIC status is factual and or ordinarily resident for tax purposes in the UK on dividends declared on the shares.
cannot be made until the close of the applicable taxable year.
The Company will be a PFIC for any taxable year in which either: US Holders who are not resident or ordinarily resident for tax purposes in the UK with i 75% or more of its gross income is passive income: or no other source of UK income and no liability to UK tax are not required to le a UK income tax return.
ii its assets that produce passive income or that are held for the production of For US federal income tax purposes, the gross amount of any distribution made by the passive income amount to at least 50% of the value of its total assets on average.
Company to a US Holder with respect to any shares or ADSs held by the US Holder generally will be includable in the income of the US Holder as dividend income to the For purposes of this test, the Company will be treated as directly owning its extent that such distribution is paid out of the Companys current or accumulated proportionate share of the assets, and directly receiving its proportionate share of the earnings and profits as determined under US federal income tax principles subject to gross income, of each corporation in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, the discussion below under US passive foreign investment company rules.
Dividends at least 25% of the value of the shares of such corporation.
will generally constitute foreign source passive income for foreign tax credit purposes.
The dividend income generally will not be eligible for the dividends received If the Company were to become a PFIC, the tax applicable to distributions on shares or deduction allowed to corporations.
If the amount of any distribution exceeds the ADSs and any gains a US Holder recognises on disposition of shares or ADSs may be Companys current and accumulated earnings and profits as so computed, such excess less favourable to such US Holder.
Accordingly, each person should consult with his first will be treated as a tax-free return of capital to the extent of the US Holders tax own professional advisor regarding the PFIC rules.
basis in its shares or ADSs, and thereafter as gain from the sale or exchange of property.
Inheritance and gift taxes An individual who is domiciled in the US for the purposes of the United KingdomDividends received by a non-corporate US Holder before 1 January 2011, with respect United States Estate and Gift Tax Convention the Estate Tax Treaty and who is not a to such US Holders shares or ADSs that constitute qualied dividend income, will be national of the UK for the purposes of the Estate Tax Treaty will generally not be subject to a reduced rate of US federal taxation provided that such US Holders shares subject to UK inheritance tax in respect of the shares or ADSs on the individuals death......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 118 Annual Report 2008......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... or on a gift of the shares or ADSs during the individuals lifetime provided that any US information reporting and backup withholding applicable US federal gift or estate tax liability is paid, unless the shares or ADSs are Dividend payments on the shares or ADSs and proceeds from the sale, exchange or part of the business property of a permanent establishment in the UK of an enterprise other disposition of the shares or ADSs may be subject to information reporting to the or pertainto a xed base in  theperformance of Internal Revenue Service and possible US backup withholding at a rate of 28%.
Where the ADSs or shares have been placed in trust by federal backup withholding generally is imposed on specified payments to persons that a settlor who, at time of settlement, was a US Holder, the ADSs or shares will fail to furnish required information.
Backup withholding will not apply to a holder who generally not be subject to UK inheritance tax if at the time when the settlement was furnishes a correct taxpayer identication number or certicate of foreign status and made the settlor was domiciled in the United States and was not a national of the makes any other required certication, or who is otherwise exempt from backup United Kingdom for the purposes of the Estate Tax Treaty.
In the exceptional case withholding.
Any US persons required to establish their exempt status generally must where the shares are subject both to UK inheritance tax and to US federal gift or le Internal Revenue Service Form W-9, Request  Number estate tax, the Estate Tax Treaty generally provides for the tax paid in the UK to be and Certication.
credited against tax paid in the US or for tax paid in the US to be credited against tax payable in the UK based on priority rules set out in that Treaty.
Backup withholding is not an additional tax.
Amounts withheld as backup withholding may be credited against a US Holders US federal income tax liability.
A US Holder may UK stampdutyand stampdutyreserve tax obtain a refund of any excess amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules A transfer for value of the shares will generally be subject to UK ad valorem stamp by ling the appropriate claim for refund with the Internal Revenue Service and duty, normally at the rate of 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration given furnishing any required information.
for the transfer, rounded up if necessary to the nearest multiple of 5.
Stamp duty is normally a liability of the purchaser.
Documents on display Certain documents referred to in this Annual Report can be inspected at our registered An agreement to transfer shares or any interest therein for money or moneys worth ofce at Grant Way, Isleworth, Middlesex, TW7 5QD, England, during normal business will normally give rise to a charge to stamp duty reserve tax SDRT at the rate of hours on Monday to Friday public holidays excepted.
Shareholders attending the 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration for the shares or interest therein Companys AGM will also have the opportunity to inspect certain documents as detailed with no rounding up or down.
However, if a duly stamped instrument of transfer of in the Notice of AGM from 15 minutes prior to the meeting until its conclusion.
A copy the shares is executed in pursuance of the agreement and duly produced within six of theNoticeofAGM canbe downloaded fromthe Companys corporate websiteat years of the date on which the agreement for sale is made or, if the agreement is www.
conditional, the date on which the condition is satisfied any SDRT paid is generally repayable with interest, and otherwise the SDRT charge is cancelled.
SDRT is in We are subject to the periodic reporting and other informational requirements of the general payable by the purchaser.
The UK Finance Act 1996 amending the UK Finance US Securities Exchange Act.
Under the Exchange Act, we are required to le reports Act 1986 makes it clear that contrary to previous UK HMRC practice SDRT will be and other information with the SEC.
Copies of reports and other information, when so levied in respect of agreements to transfer chargeable securities which include shares led, may be inspected without charge and may be obtained at prescribed rates at the even where a person not resident in the UK buys chargeable securities from another public reference facilities maintained by the SEC at 100 F Street, N. E. Washington, non-resident and the transaction is carried out outside the UK.
The public may obtain information regarding the SECs Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-202-551-8090.
Our public lings with the SEC are also Stamp duty or SDRT charges at the rate of 1.5% in the case of both stamp duty and available on the website maintained by the SEC at www.
SDRT of the amount or value of the consideration, or in some circumstances, the value of the shares, may arise on a transfer of shares to the Depositary or the Material modications to the rights of security holders and use of Custodian of the Depositary or to certain persons providing a clearance system or proceeds their nominees or agents and will usually be payable by the Depositary or such other The constituent instruments dening the rights of holders of ordinary shares have not persons.
It is possible for persons operating clearance services to make an election to been materially modied.
HMRC subject to certain conditions, pursuant to which, instead of the 1.5% stamp duty or SDRT charge applying on entry as described above, a 0.5% SDRT charge would Pursuant to the terms of the Deposit Agreement, The Bank of New York, as Depositary, apply to transfers of securities made within the system.
has agreed to notify holders of ADSs of all actions of the Company in which shareholders of ordinary shares are entitled to exercise voting rights, thus facilitating In accordance with the terms of the Deposit Agreement, any tax or duty payable by the the exercise of voting rights by holders of ADSs.
The address of The Bank of New York Depositary or the Custodian of the Depositary on any subsequent deposit of shares will is 101 Barclay Street, New York, New York, 10286. be charged by the Depositary to the holder of the ADS or any deposited security represented by the ADS.
No UK stamp duty will be payable on the acquisition or transfer of an ADS or beneficial ownership of an ADS, provided that the ADS and any separate instrument of transfer or written agreement to transfer remains at all times outside the UK, and provided further that any instrument of transfer or written agreement to transfer is not executed in the UK.
An agreement to transfer ADSs will not give rise to a liability for SDRT.
Any transfer for value of the underlying shares represented by ADSs which will exclude a transfer from the Custodian of the Depositary or the Depositary to an ADS holder on a cancellation of the ADSs, may give rise to a liability to UK stamp duty.
The amount of UK stamp duty payable is generally calculated at the rate of 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration on a transfer from the Custodian of the Depositary to a US Holder or registered holder of an ADS, rounded up if necessary to the nearest multiple of 5.
