Believe in better B y helping you t ake control 7, 000 Hours of HD programmes every month 1.3m New Sky customers in the last year Sky goes from strength to strength, attracting Flexibility and convenience 1.3 million new customers last year more than any year since its launch in 2001.
The reason for its success We want our customers to enjoy the best is the simple way Sky helps people to get more out of their TV viewing.
A whole series can be recorded at the possible viewing experience.
So we make press of a button.
Two programmes can be recorded at the same time while you watch a third that has already TV fit in with their lives by giving them the been recorded.
And with our remote record feature, you can even use your mobile phone or PC to programme a flexibility and convenience of when, where Sky recording from anywhere in the world.
Because customers love Sky, they tell their family and friends how it transforms the TV experience.
The power of customer advocacy is reflected in our latest Sky advertising campaign, which features celebrities such as Kelly Brook, Sir Michael Parkinson and Ross Kemp talking about the difference Sky has made to their lives.
B Br riit tiis sh S h Sk ky B y Br ro oa ad dc ca as st tiin ng G g Gr ro ou up p p pllc c 12 12 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ev viie ew 2 w 20 00 08 8 High Definition is the biggest improvement in television Because we want everyone in the family to be able And our Sky Player service allows customers to enjoy picture quality since colour replaced black and white, to enjoy their favourite programmes, we developed a broad range of content on their home computers.
and Sky is leading the way.
Sky HD takes the viewing Sky Multiroom.
Over 1.5 million households have seized On-demand access to top entertainment shows, experience to another level, bringing cinema-like sound the opportunity it offers to watch different channels hundreds of movies, the latest news and the best of and vision into the home.
in different rooms at the same time.
sporting action means it is easy and simple to find the great programmes on offer.
With over 7,000 hours of HD sport, movies and We continue to innovate to put customers in control.
entertainment every month, we show ten times as many Sky Anytime TV is the latest enhancement to the Sky We even make sure that customers can keep in touch hours in HD as our nearest competitor.
And with five experience, using the storage capacity in Sky and with sports, news and the latest entertainment while new HD channels joining in the last year, we are adding Sky HD boxes to let customers watch a selection they are on the move.
Over 20 channels including live more hours all the time.
Our leadership in HD has of programmes on-demand, at the touch of a button.
sports action can be accessed through Sky Mobile TV, been recognised by the Royal Television Society, which It automatically records the best of each weeks movies, while Sky Anytime on Mobile allows customers to access awarded Sky HD its Raising The Bar Award for 2007 entertainment shows and documentaries so families the latest news and sports headlines wherever they are.
and praised Sky for its ambition, momentum and can watch them whenever they want.
B Br riit tiis sh S h Sk ky B y Br ro oa ad dc ca as st tiin ng G g Gr ro ou up p p pllc c 13 13 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ev viie ew 2 w 20 00 08 8
