A long-term growth rate of 3% was applied in order to extrapolate cash ow projections beyond this five year period, based on future industry expectations.
The cash ows were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 8.3% 2007: 8.6%.
i Interactive The Interactive unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of BiB.
The key assumptions on which forecast five year cash ows were based included the number of interactive application providers on the interactive platform, the number of unique users of interactive services, the average spend per unique user, contractual rate cards, the number of customer connections to interactive services, and the level of conditional access and access control charges to broadcasters and interactive application providers on the Sky digital platform.
The values assigned to each of these assumptions were determined based on historical data and trends within the unit, and on contractual rate cards, where these were available.
ii Betting and gaming The Betting and gaming unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of SIG and 365 Medias betting business.
The key assumptions on which forecast five year cash ows were based include the number of weekly unique users, the number of bets placed per user per week, the average stake per user per week and the average spendper active user per week.
The values assigned to each of these assumptions were determined based on an extrapolation of historical trends within the unit, and external information on expected future trends in betting and gaming.
iii Broadcast The Broadcast unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of Easynets UK broadband network assets, Easynets UK residential business, 365 Medias content business and Amstrad.
The key assumptions on which forecast five year cash ows of the Broadcast unit were based include the number of gross DTH subscriber additions, the rate ofDTH churn, the average revenue per subscriber, acquisition costs per subscriber and anticipated changes in the product mix and marketing mix of the broadcast business.
The values assigned to each of these assumptions were determined based on the extrapolation of historical trends within the Group, and external information on expected future trends in the UK and Ireland entertainment and communications industry.
iv Easynet Enterprise The Easynet Enterprise unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of Easynets enterprise broadband business in the UK and other European countries.
The key assumptions on which forecast five year cash ows were based include the number of Easynet Enterprise customers, the average revenue per customer and the operating margin generated per customer.
The values assigned to each of these assumptions were determined based on an extrapolation of historical trends within the unit, and external information on expected future trends in the enterprise broadband industry.
