Believe in better B y wanting to g ive you more Sky has always stood for the best choice of TV available.
Choice, quality and value We began with a belief that viewers in the UK and Ireland would respond to increased choice and We want to be peoples first choice for quality on screen, and our commitment to outstanding content is just as strong today.
Depth and breadth of entertainment and communications.
In a programming in entertainment, news, sports, movies, documentaries and the arts is at the heart of what we fast-changing marketplace, customers are do.
So is the way we use technology to enhance the viewing experience and make life easier for customers.
increasingly rewarding trusted providers who Weve led the way with innovations like Sky and high definition TV as we keep pushing forward to meet offer real choice, quality and value thats customers changing needs.
why more people are choosing Sky every day.
But being a Sky customer today doesnt only mean access to quality entertainment to enjoy how, where and when you want.
It also means high-speed internet access with Sky Broadband and money-saving home telephone B Br riit tiis sh S h Sk ky B y Br ro oa ad dc ca as st tiin ng G g Gr ro ou up p p pllc c 8 8 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ev viie ew 2 w 20 00 08 8 1 7 Sky TV packages start from 17 per month 11% Percentage of customers taking a combination of TV, broadband and talk calls with Sky Talk.
With one of the UKs most recognised choosing to take a combination of our TV, broadband Looking ahead, we continue to see a substantial growth brands, Sky is well placed to bring together a range of and phone products.
As we bring together the TV that customers products that meet the whole familys entertainment trend for consumers to consolidate these services from love with great value broadband and telephony, were and communications needs.
a single source continues to grow, we believe that more well placed to encourage more families to join Sky, to of our customers will choose to take even more of our stay longer and to take more from us.
Since the launch of Sky Broadband and the new Sky Talk products in the years ahead.
in 2006, customers have responded to our transparent pricing and flexible packages by making us the UKs As well as allowing existing customers to get more from fastest growing broadband and home phone provider.
Sky, the expansion of our product range has also created In the last year, more than 900,000 customers have another reason for people to join us for the first time.
joined Sky Broadband and more than 700,000 have With combined packages of TV, phone and broadband chosen one of our Sky Talk call packages.
available from just 17 a month, many people can switch to Sky and get all of these services including a better Broadband and Talk allow us to give more value to choice of TV for less than they are paying their current existing Sky TV customers who can save money by provider for broadband alone.
choosing Sky for a broader range of services.
After less than two years, over 10% of our customers are already B Br riit tiis sh S h Sk ky B y Br ro oa ad dc ca as st tiin ng G g Gr ro ou up p p pllc c 9 9 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ev viie ew 2 w 20 00 08 8
