Financial Accounts Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and and the financial statements.
The Directors are required to integrity of the Company website.
Legislation in the United prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and of financial statements differs from legislation in other have also elected to prepare financial statements for the jurisdictions.
Company in accordance with IFRS.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance We confirm to the best of our knowledge: with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
T he financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, statements present fairly for each financial year the financial position and profit or loss of the Company and Companys financial position, financial performance and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the whole.
effects of transactions, other events and conditions in 2.
T he Management Report, which is incorporated into the accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria Directors Report includes a fair review of the development for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the and performance of the business and the position of International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Company and the undertakings included in the the preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: By order of the Board properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the T Attwood P H Keller specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users Chief Executive Officer Finance Director to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 2 June 2008 2 June 2008 events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, having assessed the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern, management either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease trading, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 65
