64 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Accounting policies continued Borrowings The residual value and useful economic life of all assets are Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, being their issue reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet proceeds net of any transaction costs incurred.
All items of property, plant and equipment are tested for subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss recognised in the income statement over the expected life of the is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying value borrowings using the EIR.
Borrowings are classified as current exceeds the higher of the assets value in use or its fair value less liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer costs to sell.
settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance Share capital sheet date.
IPF plc has only ordinary share capital.
These shares, with Intangible assets a nominal value of 10p per share, are classified as equity.
Intangible assets comprise computer software and a banking Shares held by employee trust licence in Russia.
Computer software is capitalised as an intangible The net amount paid by the employee trust to acquire shares is asset on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire or develop the held in a separate reserve and shown as a reduction in equity.
specific software and bring it into use.
Foreign currency translation Computer software is amortised on a straight-line basis over its Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups estimated useful economic life which is generally estimated to be subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary five years.
The residual values and economic lives are reviewed by economic environment in which the subsidiary operates the management at each balance sheet date.
The Groups financial information is The banking licence is not subject to amortisation as it is deemed presented in sterling.
to have an indefinite useful life as it will be used to allow the Group Transactions that are not denominated in a subsidiarys functional to issue credit to customers in Russia.
It is tested for impairment currency are recorded at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of at each balance sheet date.
Investments in subsidiaries Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, where cost is are translated into the relevant functional currency at the rates of equal to the fair value of the consideration used to acquire the exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Investments are tested for impairment whenever events translation are charged or credited to the income statement, except or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges or qualifying may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for net investment hedges.
the amount by which the investment carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets value in use or its fair value less costs to sell.
The income statements of the Group subsidiaries none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a Property, plant and equipment functional currency different from sterling are translated into Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less subsequent sterling at the average exchange rate and the balance sheets are depreciation and impairment.
Cost represents invoiced cost plus translated at the exchange rates ruling at each balance sheet date.
any other costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries, and of borrowings Depreciation is calculated to write down assets to their estimated and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such realisable value over their useful economic lives.
The following are investments, are taken to equity.
When a foreign operation is sold the principal bases used: such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement Category Depreciation rate Method as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Fixtures and fittings 10% Straight-line Taxation Equipment including The tax expense represents the sum of current and deferred tax.
computer hardware 20 to 33.3% Straight-line Current tax is calculated based on taxable profit for the year using Motor vehicles 25% Reducing balance tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
