46 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Governance Corporate governance statement Introduction Non-executive directors This statement explains how the Company applied the The non-executive directors have been appointed for a fixed principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code published period of three years.
The initial period may be extended by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Combined for a further period, subject to re-election by shareholders.
Code in the financial year ending on 31 December 2008.
Their letters of appointment may be inspected at the Companys The statement of compliance is at the end of this statement.
registered office and are available from the Company Secretary.
Each of the non-executive directors has been formally The board determined by the board to be independent for the purposes Members and attendance of the Combined Code.
The board leads and controls the Company.
The members and their attendance at board meetings in 2008 were as follows.
Ray Miles, the senior independent director, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through Number of Number Name meetings attended the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Christopher Rodrigues Chairman 9 9 and Finance Director has failed to address or for which such John Harnett Chief Executive Officer 9 9 contact is inappropriate.
David Broadbent Finance Director 9 9 Re-election of directors Charles Gregson Non-executive director 9 8 Under the Companys Articles of Association, each director Tony Hales Non-executive director 9 9 must offer himself for re-election every three years.
After nine Ray Miles Non-executive director 9 8 years a director, other than an executive director, must offer Nick Page Non-executive director 9 9 himself for re-election annually.
A director who is initially In addition to its board meetings, the board held a strategy appointed by the board is subject to election at the next AGM.
retreat in April 2008 which was attended by all the directors.
Policy on other board appointments Governance The board has approved a policy on other directorships, any The board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved request for an exception to which is considered on its merits.
These include corporate strategy, approval of A full-time executive director will be permitted to hold one budgets and financial results, new board appointments, proposals non-executive directorship and to retain the fees from that for dividend payments and the approval of all major transactions.
appointment provided that the board considers that this will not adversely affect his executive responsibilities.
The board has approved a statement of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive The Companys policy is that the Chairman and the nonOfficer.
The Chairman is responsible for chairing board meetings executive directors should have sufficient time to fulfil their and monitoring their effectiveness and chairing the annual duties as such, including chairing a board committee as general meeting the AGM and nomination committee.
A non-executive director should not hold more The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for developing than four other material non-executive directorships.
If he and implementing the strategy agreed by the board and for holds an executive role in another FTSE 350 company, he all executive matters apart from those reserved to the board should not hold more than two other material non-executive and the board committees and will delegate accordingly.
There are five principal board committees.
Their written Performance evaluation terms of reference are available on the Companys website The board has carried out an evaluation of its performance www.
co. uk and from the Company Secretary.
and that of its committees and individual directors in 2008.
The Chairman was primarily responsible for this evaluation.
Chairman Directors completed a questionnaire on different aspects of The Chairman is also Chairman of VisitBritain and a nonthe board and its committees and the performance of individual executive director of Ladbrokes plc.
The senior independent director was responsible of 2009 he has been acting Chief Executive of VisitBritain for collating comments on the Chairmans performance.
A summary of the evaluation was presented to the board which considered the results of the evaluation.
