62 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Accounting policies Basis of preparation Accounting convention The consolidated Group and Parent Company financial statements The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under of IPF plc and its subsidiaries IPF or the Group have been prepared the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting derivative financial instruments at fair value.
The principal accounting Standards IFRS, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act policies, which have been applied consistently, are set out in the 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The following standards and interpretations were effective in the year: Consolidation These consolidated financial statements include the financial IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum results of all companies which are controlled by the Group.
Control Funding Requirements and their Interaction exists where the Group has the power to govern the financial The following interpretations were effective in the current financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from year but were not relevant to the Group: its activities.
All companies are 100% owned by IPF plc Group companies.
A list of the principal subsidiaries included in the IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements consolidated financial statements is included within note 11.
IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes Finance costs The following standards and interpretations, which were in issue Finance costs comprise the interest on external borrowings and but not yet effective, have not been early adopted by the Group: are recognised on an effective interest rate EIR basis.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments Segment reporting The Groups primary reporting format is geographical segments.
IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements A geographical segment is a component of the Group that operates Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based payment Vesting conditions within a particular economic environment and that is subject to and cancellations risks and returns that are different from those of components operating in other economic environments.
IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations The provision of home credit is the only business segment Amendment to IAS 36 Impairment of assets impairment tests operated by the Group and therefore a secondary segmental Amendment to IAS 19 Employee benefits analysis is not provided.
Amendment to IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and Revenue measurement Revenue, which excludes value added tax and intra-group transactions, comprises revenue earned on amounts receivable IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation from customers.
Revenue on customer receivables is calculated IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs using an EIR.
The EIR is calculated using estimated cash flows being contractual payments adjusted for the impact of customers Amendment to IAS 32 and IAS 1 Puttable financial instruments paying early but excluding the anticipated impact of customers and obligations arising on liquidation paying late or not paying at all.
Amendment to IAS 28 and IAS 32 investments in associates Directly attributable issue costs are also taken into account in Amendment to IAS 38 Intangible assets calculating the EIR.
Interest income continues to be accrued on impaired receivables using the original EIR applied to the loans IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and separate financial statements carrying value.
Amendment to IFRS 5 and IFRS 1 Non-current assets held-for-sale The accounting for amounts receivable from customers is and discontinued operations considered further below.
The standards and interpretations listed above are not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements.
