co. uk Directors report and business review 45 Health and safety Responsibility statement The Group attaches great importance to the health and safety This statement is given pursuant to Rule 4 of the Disclosure of its employees, agents and other people who may be affected and Transparency Rules.
It is given by each of the directors: namely, Christopher The board has approved a Group health and safety policy and Rodrigues, Chairman: John Harnett, Chief Executive Officer: a framework for health and safety.
It has established a health David Broadbent, Finance Director: Charles Gregson, and safety steering committee which is chaired by the Company non-executive director: Tony Hales, non-executive director: Secretary.
This committee reports annually to the board by Ray Miles, non-executive director: and Nick Page, means of a written report.
Each subsidiary board is responsible non-executive director.
for the issue and implementation of its own health and safety To the best of each directors knowledge: policy as it affects the subsidiary companys day-to-day responsibility for health and safety.
Health and safety is a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with considered regularly at board meetings and each board the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true produces a written report for the health and safety steering and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position committee once a year.
and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Corporate governance statement Full details of the Companys approach to corporate governance b the management report contained in this report includes and the compliance statement are set out in the corporate a fair review of the development and performance of governance statement which forms part of this report.
the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements whole, together with a description of the principal risks This statement, which should be read in conjunction with and uncertainties that they face.
the independent auditors report, is made to distinguish for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors Disclosure of information to the auditors and the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
In the case of each person who is a director at the date of this report, it is confirmed that, so far as the director is aware, The directors are required to prepare the financial statements there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, auditors are unaware: and he has taken all the steps that ought as adopted by the EU.
They are also required to ensure that the to have been taken as a director in order to make himself aware financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, of any relevant audit information and to establish that the as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Such financial statements should present fairly for each financial year the financial position, financial performance Auditors and cash flows of the Company and the Group.
A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the AGM.
The directors have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of Annual general meeting the Company and the Group and to prevent and detect material The AGM will be held at 10.30 am on Wednesday, 13 May 2009 fraud and other irregularities.
at International Personal Finance plc, Number Three, Leeds City Office Park, Meadow Lane, Leeds LS11 5BD.
The Notice of The Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 will be Meeting, together with an explanation of the items of business, published as a printed report and on the Companys website.
will be contained in the Chairmans letter to shareholders to be The maintenance and integrity of the International Personal dated 31 March 2009.
Finance website is the responsibility of the directors and the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters.
Approved by the board on 23 March 2009.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and Rosamond Marshall Smith dissemination of financial statements may differ from General Counsel & Company Secretary legislation in other jurisdictions.
