co. uk Financial statements 63 Leases The unwinding of the discounted value used to compute the The leases entered into by the Group are solely operating leases.
impairment is reflected in the interest charged on the impaired Costs in respect of operating leases are charged to the income loan.
Impairment charges in respect of customer receivables are statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
charged to the income statement.
Operating costs Cash and cash equivalents Operating costs include agent commission, marketing costs, foreign Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and exchange gains and losses and gains or losses on derivative contracts short-term deposits with original maturities of three months or taken to the income statement.
All other costs are included in less.
The short-term deposits are principally held for the purpose administrative expenses.
Cash also includes those balances held by agents for operational purposes.
Bank overdrafts Share-based payments are presented in current liabilities to the extent that there is no The cost of providing share-based payments to employees is right of offset with cash balances.
charged to the income statement over the vesting period of the award.
The corresponding credit is made to retained earnings.
Derivative financial instruments The cost is based on the fair value of awards granted, determined The Group uses derivative financial instruments, principally interest using a Monte Carlo simulation option pricing model or binomial rate swaps and forward currency contracts, to manage the interest option pricing model depending on the type of award.
rate and currency risks arising from the Groups underlying business operations.
No transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken.
In the Parent Company financial statements, in accordance with IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions, the fair All derivative financial instruments are assessed against the value of providing share-based payments to employees of subsidiary hedge accounting criteria set out in IAS 39.
The majority of the companies is treated as an increase in the investment in subsidiaries.
Groups derivatives are cash flow hedges of highly probable forecast transactions and meet the hedge accounting requirements of IAS Exceptional items 39.
The Group also uses some foreign currency contracts which The Group classifies as exceptional those significant items that are do not qualify for hedge accounting as they do not hedge a specific one-off in nature and do not reflect the underlying performance of future transaction.
These contracts are used to reduce the impact the Group.
of exchange rate fluctuations on the reported results.
Derivatives Financial instruments are initially recognised at the fair value on the date a derivative Amounts receivable from customers contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at each All customer receivables are initially recognised at the amount reporting date at their fair value.
Where derivatives do not qualify loaned to the customer plus directly attributable incremental for hedge accounting, movements in their fair value are recognised issue costs.
After initial recognition, customer receivables are immediately within the income statement.
subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is For derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges and the amount of the customer receivable at initial recognition less where the hedge accounting criteria are met, the effective portion customer repayments, plus revenue earned calculated using the of changes in the fair value is recognised in equity.
The gain or loss EIR, less any deduction for impairment.
Customer receivables relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the are classified as loans and receivables in accordance with IAS 39. income statement as part of operating costs.
Amounts accumulated All customer receivables are assessed for impairment each week.
in equity are recognised in the income statement when the income or Customer accounts that are in arrears those that have missed any expense on the hedged item is recognised in the income statement.
portion of a contractual payment are deemed to have demonstrated The Group discontinues hedge accounting when: evidence of impairment and are subject to an impairment review.
Impairment is calculated using actuarial models which use it is evident from testing that a derivative is not, or has ceased historical payment performance to generate the estimated amount to be, highly effective as a hedge: and timing of future cash flows from each arrears stage.
These the derivative expires, or is sold, terminated or exercised: or estimated future cash flows are discounted to a present value using the underlying hedged item matures or is sold or repaid.
the original EIR and this figure is compared with the balance sheet value.
All such impairments are charged to the income statement.
