Impairment testing of goodwill and trademarks with indefinite lives continued The recoverable amount of the goodwill and intangible assets allocated to the cash-generating units detailed above has been determined based on a value in use calculation.
To calculate this, 20 year cash flow projections are based on financial budgets approved by senior management.
A 20 year cash flow period has been used to reflect the considered longevity of the cashgenerating units.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to pre-tax cash flow projections is 11% 2007: 10.6% and cash flows beyond the one-year period are extrapolated based on forecast growth rates in line with senior management expectations of growth.
No growth in real terms is assumed beyond five years.
Senior management expectations are formed in line with historical performance and experience as well as available external market data.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculation The following describes each key assumption on which management has based its cash flow projections to undertake impairment testing of goodwill.
Growth rates reflect senior management expectations of volume growth based on historical growth, current strategy and expected market trends.
Discount rates reflect senior managements estimate of the pre-tax cost of capital.
The estimated pre-tax cost of capital is the benchmark used by management to assess operating performance and to evaluate future capital investment proposals.
Marginal contribution being revenue less material costs and all other marginal costs that management considers to be directly attributable to the sale of a given product.
Marginal contribution is based on financial budgets approved by senior management.
Key assumptions are made within these budgets about pricing, discounts and costs based on historical data, current strategy and expected market trends.
Advertising and promotional spend financial budgets approved by senior management are used to determine the value assigned to advertising and promotional spend.
This is based on the planned spend for year one and strategic intent thereafter.
Raw materials price, production and distribution costs, selling costs and other overhead inflation the basis used to determine the value assigned to inflation is forecast consumer price indices of 2.5% 2007: 2.5%.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions There are no reasonably possible changes in key assumptions which would cause the carrying value of these units to exceed their recoverable amount.
Operating lease premiums 2008 2007 m m Operating lease premiums 2.4 2.4 This amount relates to the un-amortised element of lease premiums paid on inception of operating leases.
Inventories 2008 2007 m m Raw materials 13.0 9.0 Finished goods 27.7 26.2 Consumable stores 5.7 5.4 Returnable packaging 3.0 4.7 Total inventories at lower of cost and net realisable value 49.4 45.3 Britvic plc Annual Report 2008 77
