Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Exceptional items 2008 2007 Note m m Cost of incentive schemes directly associated with the flotation a 2.8 3.3 Restructuring costs b 11.6 8.1 Returnable bottle line closure and associated costs c 0.7 2.1 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment d 3.4 Costs in relation to the purchase of Britvic Ireland e 2.1 1.2 Pension curtailment gain f 5.6 IT equipment impairment g 1.1 18.3 5.7 a Cost of incentive schemes directly associated with the flotation include all-employee share schemes and management incentives.
The cost relates to a transitional award granted to members of both the senior leadership team and senior management team shortly after flotation, the purpose of which was to compensate these individuals for the loss of existing long-term incentive bonuses which were discontinued upon flotation.
b Restructuring costs includes the costs of major restructuring programmes undertaken.
In the current year these are principally: Redundancy costs relating to the forthcoming closure of one of the factories in the Britvic Ireland business: An impairment of property, plant and equipment relating to the forthcoming closure of one of the factories in the Britvic Ireland business: and An impairment of property, plant and equipment relating to the forthcoming closure of one of the factories in the GB segment.
In the prior year costs principally related to redundancy costs and advisors fees incurred in the outsourcing of both the secondary distribution network and the delivery and remanufacture of vending and chiller equipment to external providers.
c Returnable bottle line closure and associated costs relates primarily to a write-down of inventories for returnable glass bottle stocks which have become redundant due to the move to non-returnable bottles in the GB segment.
d The 2007 number relates to the sale of one of the Groups depots which was completed in April 2007. e Costs in relation to the purchase of Britvic Ireland relate to the costs incurred in acquiring the business which cannot be included in the cost of the business combination and therefore cannot be capitalised.
In the current year these costs principally relate to compensation paid to a distributor formerly used in Ireland prior to the acquisition of Britvic Ireland.
The 2007 number principally relates to the costs associated with setting up the financing structure to facilitate the acquisition and internal staff costs such as transaction bonuses.
f The 2007 number represents the pension curtailment gain triggered by the transfer of Group employees under the outsourcing arrangements of the secondary distribution network.
g The IT equipment impairment relates to the write down of servers which have now been replaced to accommodate increased business requirements following the acquisition of Britvic Ireland.
Details of the tax implications of exceptional items are given in Note 10a.
All impairments have been calculated based on fair value less costs to sell.
