Notes to the Company Financial Statements 1.
Parent undertaking The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
These accounts present information about the Company as an individual undertaking, under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, and not about its Group.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided under section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to publish its individual profit and loss account and related notes.
The Company is exempt from the requirements of Financial Reporting Standard No.
Accounting policies Change in accounting policy The Company has changed its policy in respect of FRS 20 Share-based payment and now records an increase in its investment in subsidiaries to reflect the share-based compensation expense recorded by its subsidiaries.
This change is a refinement of the treatment previously adopted, to reflect current best practice following the issue of UITF 44.
The comparative information has been restated for this change in accounting policy where applicable.
Further, the Company has also recognised the impact on intercompany balances relating to the purchase of own shares through Group entities, and impact on distributable reserves relating to the granting of shares to satisfy vested share-based awards under PSP and SIP schemes.
The impact on the Companys financial statements is explained in Note 13.
Investments The Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost less any provisions made for impairment.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Finance costs arising from the outstanding loan balance and finance charges are charged to the income statement using an effective interest rate method.
Borrowing costs After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
All borrowing costs are recognised as finance costs in the profit and loss account in the period in which they are incurred.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Issued share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Dividends Dividend income is recognised when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Final dividends are recorded in the financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are approved and paid.
Taxation The current income tax expense is based on taxable profits for the year, after any adjustments in respect of prior years.
It is calculated using taxation rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and is measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
