Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
General information Britvic plc the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
It is a public limited company domiciled in England & Wales and its ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Britvic plc and its subsidiaries together the Group operate in the soft drinks manufacturing and distribution industry, principally in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland.
The operating companies of the Group are disclosed within Note 33.
Statement of compliance The financial information has been prepared on the basis of applicable International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation For all periods up to and including the 52 weeks ended 2 October 2005, Britannia Soft Drinks Limited prepared its financial statements in accordance with UK generally accepted accounting practice UK GAAP.
As a consequence of the acquisition of Britannia Soft Drinks Limited by Britvic plc and of that companys listing on the London Stock Exchange, from 3 October 2005 the Group is required to prepare consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
As such the Group took the following exemptions available under IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards: a Not to restate the comparative information disclosed in the 2005 Financial Statements being the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 2 October 2005 in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
b Not to restate business combinations occurring before 4 October 2004. c To recognise all actuarial gains and losses on pensions and other post-retirement benefits directly in shareholders equity at 4 October 2004. d Not to apply IFRS 2 Share-based Payment to grants of equity instruments on or before 7 November 2002 that had vested prior to 1 January 2005.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis except where measurement of balances at fair value is required as explained below.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest million except where otherwise indicated.
The Group has changed the format of the balance sheet presentation.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial information incorporates the financial information of Britvic plc and the entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries.
The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of Britvic plc and all its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 28 September 2008 in accordance with IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
While the original acquisition of Britannia Soft Drinks Limited was accounted for under the merger method, in subsequent financial periods the acquisition method of accounting has been used, under which the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
