Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Schedule A to the directors' report Deadlines for exercising voting rights Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of Investec plc in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representatives.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not more than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Variation of rights Subject to the Companies Acts, the Articles specify that rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate general meeting the quorum shall be two persons or, if there is only one holder, that holder at least holding or representing by proxy at least one third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
Where, under the company's share incentive plan, participants are the beneficial owners of the shares, but not the registered owners, the participants are not entitled to exercise any voting rights until the shares are released to the participants.
Under the company's employee trust, the trustee does not vote in respect of unallocated shares.
Transfer of shares All transfers of shares may be effected by transfer in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the directors.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and except in the case of fully-paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
Transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form are effected by means of the CREST system.
The directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason, refuse to register any transfer of shares not being fully paid shares provided that such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether fully-paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
If the directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer they shall within two months after the date on which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with Investec plc send to the allottee or transferee a notice of the refusal.
The directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer unless the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share and when submitted for registration is accompanied by the relevant share certificates and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably require.
Subject to the Companies Acts and regulations and applicable CREST rules, the directors may determine that any class of shares may be held in uncertificated form and that title to such shares may be transferred by means of the CREST system or that shares of any class should cease to be so held and transferred.
A number of the company's employee share plans include restrictions on transfer of shares while the shares are subject to the plans, in particular, the share incentive plan.
Plc preference shares The following are the rights and privileges which attach to the plc preference shares: to receive a non-cumulative preferential dividend out of the profits of Investec plc in priority to the plc ordinary shares but pari passu with the perpetual preference shares, on such dates in respect of such periods and on such other terms and conditions as may be determined by the directors prior to the allotment thereof: the plc preference shares will rank as regards participation in profits pari passu inter se and with the most senior ranking preference shares of Investec plc in issue if any from time to time and with the perpetual preference shares: on a return of capital, whether or not on a winding up but not on a redemption or purchase of any shares by Investec plc or otherwise, the plc preference shares will rank, pari passu inter se and with the most senior ranking preference shares of Investec plc in issue if any from time to time and with any other shares of Investec plc that are expressed to rank pari passu therewith as regards participation in the capital, and otherwise in priority to any other class of shares of Investec plc: Investec plc may, at its option, redeem all or any of the plc preference shares for the time being issued and outstanding on the first call date or any dividend payment date thereafter: and holders of plc preference shares will not be entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of Investec plc.
Holders will be entitled to attend and vote at a class meeting of holders of plc preference shares.
