Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Notes to Investec plc parent company accounts Parent company profit and loss account The company has taken advantage of the exemption in s 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its own profit and loss account.
The company's profit for the year, determined in accordance with the Act, was 94 041 000 2007: 30 847 271.
Treasury shares 2008 2007 At 31 March Treasury shares held by Investec plc 000 000 Investec plc ordinary shares 3 549 1 197 Number of Investec plc ordinary shares held by Investec plc Number Number At 1 April 500 000 500 000 Purchase of own shares by Investec plc 624 995 - At 31 March 1 124 995 500 000 Reconciliation of treasury shares 000 000 At 1 April 1 197 2 309 Purchase of own shares by Investec plc 3 549 - Share based payments adjustment 1 197 1 112 At 31 March 3 549 1 197 Market value of treasury shares 000 000 3 808 3 290 Treasury shares are being held in an employee benefit trust in relation to the Investec Share Matching Plan 2005 and in relation to staff share options in Kensington Group plc.
Dividends on treasury shares have not been included in the profit and loss account.
2008 Investec Annual Report 283 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Investec Limited parent company account Income statement For the year to 31 March 2008 2007 Rmillion Interest income 196 165 Interest expense 81 78 Net interest income 115 87 Principal transactions 3 619 867 Operating income 3 734 954 Administrative expenses 56 105 Profit before taxation 3 678 849 Taxation 35 - Profit after taxation 3 643 849 2008 Investec Annual Report 284 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Investec Limited parent company account Balance sheet At 31 March Notes 2008 2007 Rmillion Assets Loans and advances to banks 30 28 Trading securities - 1 Loans and advances to customers 1 3 Other assets 1- Investment in subsidiaries b 9 235 6 561 9 267 6 593 Liabilities Current taxation liabilities 122 84 Other liabilities 482 827 604 911 Subordinated liabilities including convertible debt 379 379 983 1 290 Equity Ordinary share capital c 1 1 Share premium 5 254 5 061 Perpetual preference shares d 2 309 2 309 Other reserves 62 62 Retained income loss 658 2 130 Total equity 8 284 5 303 Total liabilities and shareholders' equity 9 267 6 593 2008 Investec Annual Report 285 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Notes to Investec Limited parent company accounts Statement of changes in equity Rmillion Share Share Capital Perpetual Profit Total capital premium reserve preference and loss shareInvestec account account shares account holders Limited Investec equity Limited At 1 April 2006 1 4 811 62 2 309 2 356 4 827 Retained profit for the year - - - - 849 849 Share based payments - - - - 234 234 Dividends accrued to ordinary shareholders - - - - 690 690 Dividends accrued to perpetual preference shareholders - - - - 167 167 Issue of shares - 250 - - - 250 At 31 March 2007 1 5 061 62 2 309 2 130 5 303 Retained profit for the year ---- 3 643 3 643 Share based payments ---- 292 292 Dividends accrued to ordinary shareholders ---- 951 951 Dividends accrued to perpetual preference shareholders ---- 196 196 Issue of shares - 193 - - - 193 At 31 March 2008 1 5 254 62 2 309 658 8 284 2008 Investec Annual Report 286 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Notes to Investec Limited parent company accounts a Accounting policies Basis of preparation The parent company accounts of Investec Limited are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and in a manner consistent with the policies disclosed on pages 213 to 223 for the group accounts, except as noted below: Foreign currencies The presentational and functional currency for Investec Limited parent company is South African Rand.
All foreign currency transactions are initially recorded and translated to the functional currency at the rate applicable at the time of the transaction.
Investments in subsidiaries Investment in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any impairment in value.
b Investment in subsidiaries At 31 March 2008 2007 Rmillion At beginning of year 6 561 6 023 Increase in investment in subsidiary 1 850 - Increase decrease in loans to subsidiaries 775 436 Exchange adjustments 49 102 At end of year 9 235 6 561 At list of the companies principal subsidiaries is detailed in note 49 of the group accounts on page 280. c. The company's called up share capital is detailed in note 35 of the group accounts on pages 265 to 268. d. The company's perpetual preference shares are detailed in note 37 of the group accounts on page 269.
2008 Investec Annual Report 287 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Definitions Adjusted shareholders equity Refer to calculation on page 26.
Cost to income ratio Administrative expenses and depreciation divided by operating income.
Core loans and advances Refer to calculation on page 101. Dividend cover Adjusted earnings per ordinary share before goodwill and non-operating items divided by dividends per ordinary share.
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders before Refer to pages 237 and 238. goodwill and non-operating items Adjusted earnings per ordinary share before goodwill and Refer to pages 237 and 238. non-operating items Effective operational tax rate Tax on profit on ordinary activities excluding exceptional items divided by operating profit excluding profit from associates and Assurance Activities.
Market capitalisation Total number of shares in issue including Investec plc and Investec Limited multiplied by the closing share price of Investec plc on the London Stock Exchange.
Net tangible asset value per share Refer to calculation on page 29.
Non-operating items Reflects profits and or losses on termination or disposal of group operations.
Operating profit Operating income less administrative expenses, impairments for bad and doubtful debts and depreciation of tangible fixed assets.
This amount is before goodwill and non-operating items.
Operating profit per employee Refer to calculation on page 32.
Return on average adjusted shareholders' equity Refer to calculation on page 26.
Return on average adjusted tangible shareholders equity Refer to calculation on page 26.
Staff compensation to operating income ratio All employee related costs expressed as a percentage of operating income.
Third party assets under administration Includes third party assets under administration managed by the Private Client, Asset Management and Property businesses.
Total capital resources Includes shareholders' equity, subordinated liabilities and minority interests.
Total equity Total shareholders' equity including minority interests.
Weighted number of ordinary shares in issue The number of ordinary shares in issue at the beginning of the year, increased by shares issued during the year, weighted on a time basis for the period during which they have participated in the income of the group less treasury shares.
Refer to calculation on page 237.
2008 Investec Annual Report 288 Notices Investec plc Incorporated in England and Wales Registration number 3633621 Share code: INP ISIN: GB00B17BBQ50 This document is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you are recommended to obtain your own personal financial advice immediately from your stockbroker, bank manager, accountant or other independent professional adviser authorised under Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your ordinary shares in Investec plc, please send this document together with the accompanying form of proxy at once to the relevant transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other person through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the relevant transferee.
Notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec plc Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc will be held at 11:00 United Kingdom time on Thursday, 7 August 2008, in the Diagonal Room, Lower Ground Floor, at the registered office of Investec plc at 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP to transact the following business: Common business: Investec plc and Investec Limited To consider and if deemed fit, to pass, with or without modification, the following ordinary resolutions of Investec plc and Investec Limited: 1.
To re-elect Samuel Ellis Abrahams as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
To re-elect Cheryl Ann Carolus as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
To re-elect Haruko Fukuda OBE as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
To re-elect Hugh Sidney Herman as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
To re-elect Geoffrey Michael Thomas Howe as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
To re-elect Bernard Kantor as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
To re-elect Ian Robert Kantor as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
To re-elect Sir Chips Keswick as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
To re-elect Mangalani Peter Malungani as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
To re-elect Peter Richard Suter Thomas as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
For brief biographical details of the directors to be re-elected, please refer to pages 189 to 192 of the Annual Report of Investec plc Investec Limited.
Investec plc and Investec Limited adopted a policy, in accordance with corporate governance best practice, of requiring all nonexecutive directors who have served on the board for nine years or more, to seek re-election on an annual basis which practice is entrenched in the Articles of Association of both Investec plc and Investec Limited.
Ordinary business: Investec Limited To consider and if deemed fit, to pass, with or without modification, the following ordinary resolutions of Investec Limited: 11.
To receive and adopt the audited financial statements of Investec Limited for the year ended 31 March 2008, together with the reports of the directors of Investec Limited and of the auditors of Investec Limited.
To determine, ratify and approve the remuneration of the directors of Investec Limited for the year ended 31 March 2008.
To sanction the interim dividend paid by Investec Limited on the ordinary shares in Investec Limited for the 6 six month period ended 30 September 2007.
To sanction the interim dividend paid by Investec Limited on the dividend access South African Resident SA DAS redeemable preference share for the 6 six month period ended 30 September 2007.
Subject to the passing of resolution no.
35, to declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares and the dividend access South African Resident SA DAS redeemable preference share in Investec Limited for the year ended 31 March 2008 of an amount equal to that recommended by the directors of Investec Limited.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young Inc. of Ernst & Young House, Wanderers Office Park, 52 Corlett Drive, Illovo, 2196 Private Bag X14, Northlands, 2116 as auditors of Investec Limited to hold office until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2009 and to authorise the directors of Investec Limited to fix their remuneration.
To re-appoint KPMG Inc. of 85 Empire Road, Parktown, 2193 Private Bag 9, Parkview, 2122 as auditors of Investec Limited to hold office until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2009 and to authorise the directors of Investec Limited to fix their remuneration.
Special business: Investec Limited To consider and if deemed fit, to pass, with or without modification, the following ordinary and special resolutions of Investec Limited: 18.
Ordinary resolution: Investec Limited: Placing 10% of the unissued ordinary shares under the control of the directors Resolved that: - with reference to the authority granted to directors in terms of Article 12 of the Articles of Association of Investec Limited: unless and until such date that special resolution no.
2 becomes effective, 4 207 950 four million two hundred and seven thousand nine hundred and fifty ordinary shares of ZAR0.0002 each being 10% ten per cent of the unissued ordinary shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited: or from the date on which special resolution no.
2 becomes effective, 6 457 950 six million four hundred and fifty-seven thousand nine hundred and fifty ordinary shares of ZAR0.0002 each being 10% ten per cent of the unissued ordinary shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited be and are hereby placed under the control of the directors of Investec Limited as a general authority in terms of Section 221 of the South African Companies Act, No.
61 of 1973, as amended, the SA Act who are authorised to allot and issue the same at their discretion until the next Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2009, subject to the provisions of the SA Act, the South African Banks Act, No.
94 of 1990, as amended and the Listings Requirements of the JSE Limited.
Ordinary resolution: Investec Limited: Placing 10% of the unissued Class A variable rate compulsorily convertible noncumulative preference shares under the control of the directors Resolved that: - with reference to the authority granted to directors in terms of Article 12 of the Articles of Association of Investec Limited, a total of 4 000 000 four million Class A variable rate compulsorily convertible non-cumulative preference shares Class A preference shares of ZAR0.0002 each, being 10% ten per cent of the unissued Class A preference shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited, be and are hereby placed under the control of the directors of Investec Limited as a general authority in terms of Section 221 of the South African Companies Act, No.
Ordinary resolution: Investec Limited: Placing the remaining unissued shares being the variable rate cumulative redeemable preference shares, the non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating preference shares and the special convertible redeemable preference shares under the control of the directors Resolved that: - with reference to the authority granted to directors in terms of Article 12 of the Articles of Association of Investec Limited, all the unissued shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited, excluding the ordinary shares and the Class A variable rate compulsorily convertible non-cumulative preference shares, be and are hereby placed under the control of the directors of Investec Limited as a general authority in terms of Section 221 of the South African Companies Act, No.
Ordinary resolution: Investec Limited: Directors' authority to allot and issue ordinary shares for cash Resolved that: - subject to the passing of resolution no.
18, the Listings Requirements of the JSE Limited JSE Listings Requirements, the South African Banks Act, No.
94 of 1990, as amended and the South African Companies Act, No.
61 of 1973, as amended, the directors of Investec Limited be and they are hereby authorised to allot and issue: unless and until such date that special resolution no.
2 becomes effective, 4 207 950 four million two hundred and seven thousand nine hundred and fifty ordinary shares of ZAR0.0002 each: or from the date on which special resolution no.
2 becomes effective, 6 457 950 six million four hundred and fifty seven thousand nine hundred and fifty ordinary shares of ZAR0.0002 each for cash as and when suitable situations arise, subject to the following specific limitations as required by the JSE Listings Requirements: i this authority shall not extend beyond the later of the date of the next Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2009 or the date of the expiry of 15 fifteen months from the date of the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 7 August 2008: ii a paid press announcement giving full details including the impact on net asset value and earnings per ordinary share, will be published at the time of an issue representing, on a cumulative basis within 1 one financial year, 5% five per cent or more of the number of ordinary shares in issue prior to such issue: iii the issue in the aggregate in any 1 one financial year will not exceed 15% fifteen per cent of the number of ordinary shares in issue, including instruments which are compulsorily convertible: iv in determining the price at which an allotment and issue of ordinary shares may be made in terms of this authority, the maximum discount permitted will be 10% ten per cent of the weighted average traded price of the ordinary shares in question as determined over the 30 thirty days prior to the date that the price of the issue is determined or agreed by the directors of Investec Limited: and v the equity securities shares must be issued to public shareholders and not to related parties.
The directors are seeking an authority to allot up to 10% ten per cent of the number of unissued ordinary shares for cash which represents 2.7% two point seven per cent of the number of issued ordinary shares which is significantly lower than the 15% fifteen per cent permitted in terms of the JSE Listings Requirements.
9 are both passed, and subject to the limits specified in those respective resolutions, the directors will have authority to allot up to an aggregate of 5% five per cent of the total combined issued ordinary share capital of Investec plc and Investec Limited for cash other than by way of rights issue.
This complies with the limits set out in the relevant Association of British Insurers guidelines and the directors confirm that, as and when they exercise such authorities, they intend to comply with those guidelines.
In terms of the JSE Listings Requirements, in order for resolution no.
21 to be given effect to, a 75% seventy five per cent majority of the votes of all members present or represented by proxy at the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc and Investec Limited must be cast in favour of resolution no.
Ordinary resolution: Investec Limited: Directors' authority to allot and issue Class A variable rate compulsorily convertible non-cumulative preference shares for cash Resolved that: - subject to the passing of resolution no.
19, the Listings Requirements of the JSE Limited JSE Listings Requirements, the South African Banks Act, No.
61 of 1973, as amended, the directors of Investec Limited be and they are hereby authorised to allot and issue 4 000 000 four million Class A variable rate compulsorily convertible non-cumulative preference shares Class A preference shares of ZAR0.0002 each being 10% ten per cent of the unissued Class A preference shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited for cash as and when suitable situations arise, subject to the following specific limitations as required by the JSE Listings Requirements: i this authority shall not extend beyond the later of the date of the next Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2009 or the date of the expiry of 15 fifteen months from the date of the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 7 August 2008: ii a paid press announcement giving full details including the impact on net asset value and earnings per Class A preference share, will be published at the time of an issue representing, on a cumulative basis within 1 one financial year, 5% five per cent or more of the number of Class A preference shares in issue prior to such issue: iii the issue in the aggregate in any 1 one financial year will not exceed 15% fifteen per cent of the number of Class A preference shares in issue, including instruments which are compulsorily convertible: 2008 Investec Annual Report 291 Notices iv in determining the price at which an allotment and issue of Class A preference shares may be made in terms of this authority, the maximum discount permitted will be 10% ten per cent of the weighted average traded price of the Class A preference shares in question as determined over the 30 thirty days prior to the date that the price of the issue is determined or agreed by the directors of Investec Limited: and v the equity securities shares must be issued to public shareholders and not to related parties.
22 is passed, the directors will have authority to allot Class A preference shares for cash other than by way of rights issue in respect of Investec Limited up to the limits specified in resolution no.
22, i. e. 4 000 000 four million Class A preference shares, being equivalent to 10% ten per cent of the unissued Class A preference shares.
22 to be given effect to, a 75% seventy five per cent majority of the votes of all members present or represented by proxy at the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc and Investec Limited must be cast in favour of resolution no.
1: Investec Limited: Directors' authority to acquire ordinary shares and preference shares Resolved that: - in terms of Article 9 of the Articles of Association of Investec Limited and with effect from 7 August 2008, Investec Limited hereby approves, as a general approval contemplated in Sections 85 to 89 both inclusive of the South African Companies Act, No.
61 of 1973, as amended the SA Act, the acquisition by Investec Limited or any of its subsidiaries from time to time of the issued ordinary shares and non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating preference shares the perpetual preference shares of Investec Limited, upon such terms and conditions and in such amounts as the directors of Investec Limited or its subsidiaries may from time to time decide, but subject to the provisions of the South African Banks Act, No.
94 of 1990, as amended, the SA Act and the Listings Requirements of the JSE Limited the JSE and the JSE Listings Requirements, being that: i any such acquisition of ordinary shares or perpetual preference shares shall be effected through the order book operated by the JSE trading system and done without any prior understanding or arrangement: ii this general authority shall be valid until Investec Limited's next Annual General Meeting to be held in 2009, provided that it shall not extend beyond 15 fifteen months from the date of passing of this special resolution no.
1: iii an announcement containing full details of such acquisitions will be published as soon as Investec Limited or any of its subsidiaries has acquired ordinary shares or perpetual preference shares constituting, on a cumulative basis, 3% three per cent of the number of ordinary shares or perpetual preference shares in issue, as the case may be, prior to the acquisition pursuant to which the aforesaid 3% three per cent threshold is reached and for each 3% three per cent in aggregate acquired thereafter: iv acquisitions of shares in aggregate in any 1 one one financial year may not exceed 20% twenty per cent of Investec Limited's issued ordinary share capital or Investec Limited's issued perpetual preference share capital as at the date of passing of this special resolution no.
1: v in determining the price at which ordinary shares or perpetual preference shares issued by Investec Limited are acquired by it or any of its subsidiaries in terms of this general authority, the maximum premium at which such ordinary shares or perpetual preference shares, as the case may be, may be acquired will be 10% ten per cent of the weighted average of the market value at which such ordinary shares or perpetual preference shares, as the case may be, are traded on the JSE as determined over the 5 five business days immediately preceding the date of repurchase of such ordinary shares or perpetual preference shares, as the case may be, by Investec Limited or any of its subsidiaries: vi Investec Limited has been given authority by its Articles of Association: vii at any point in time, Investec Limited may only appoint 1 one agent to effect any repurchase on Investec Limited's behalf: viii Investec Limited remaining in compliance with the minimum shareholder spread requirements of the JSE Listings Requirements: and ix Investec Limited and or its subsidiaries not repurchasing any shares during a prohibited period as defined by the JSE Listings Requirements.
The reason for and effect of special resolution no.
1 is to grant a renewable general authority to Investec Limited, or a subsidiary of Investec Limited, to repurchase ordinary shares and perpetual preference shares of Investec Limited which are in issue from time to time in terms of the SA Act and the JSE Listings Requirements.
2008 Investec Annual Report 292 Notices The directors of Investec Limited have no present intention of making any repurchases but believe that Investec Limited should retain the flexibility to take action if future repurchases are considered desirable and in the best interests of shareholders.
The directors of Investec Limited are of the opinion that, after considering the effect of such acquisition of ordinary shares and perpetual preference shares, if implemented and on the assumption that the maximum of 20% twenty per cent of the current issued ordinary share capital or perpetual preference share capital of Investec Limited will be repurchased, using the mechanism of the general authority at the maximum price at which the repurchase may take place a 10% ten per cent premium above the weighted average of the market value for the securities for the 5 five business days immediately preceding the date of the repurchase and having regard to the price of the ordinary shares or perpetual preference shares of Investec Limited on the JSE at the last practical date prior to the date of the notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 7 August 2008 that: Investec Limited and its subsidiaries will be able, in the ordinary course of business, to pay its debt for a period of 12 twelve months after the date of the notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 7 August 2008: the consolidated assets of Investec Limited and its subsidiaries, fairly valued in accordance with General Accepted Accounting Practice, will be in excess of the consolidated liabilities of Investec Limited and its subsidiaries for a period of 12 twelve months after the date of the notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 7 August 2008: Investec Limited and its subsidiaries will have adequate capital and reserves for ordinary business purposes for a period of 12 twelve months after the date of the notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 7 August 2008: and the working capital of Investec Limited and its subsidiaries will be adequate for ordinary business purposes for a period of 12 twelve months after the date of the notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 7 August 2008.
Litigation statement In terms of section 11.26 of the JSE Listings Requirements, the directors, whose names appear on pages 189 to 192 of the 2008 Annual Report, are not aware of any legal or arbitration proceedings that are pending or threatened, that may have or have had in the recent past, being at least the previous 12 twelve months, a material effect on Investec Limited and its subsidiaries' financial position, other than disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
Directors' responsibility statement The directors, whose names appear on pages 189 to 192 of the 2008 annual report, collectively and individually accept full responsibility for the accuracy of the information pertaining to this special resolution and certify that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, there are no facts that have been omitted which would make any statement false or misleading and that all reasonable enquiries to ascertain such facts have been made and that the special resolution contains all information.
Material changes Other than the facts and developments reported on in the 2008 annual report, there have been no material changes in the affairs or financial position of Investec Limited and its subsidiaries since the date of signature of the audit report and up to the date of this notice.
The following additional information, some of which may appear elsewhere in the 2008 annual report, is provided in terms of the JSE Listings Requirements for purposes of the general authority: directors and management - annual report pages 189 to 196: major beneficial shareholders - annual report page 186: directors' interests in ordinary shares - annual report page 177: share capital of Investec Limited - annual report pages 265 to 268.
2: Investec Limited: Increase in share capital Resolved that: - subject to the passing of special resolution no.
11 as contained in the Investec plc notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 7 August 2008 and such resolution otherwise becoming effective, in terms of Section 75 1 e of the Companies Act, Act No.
61 of 1973, as amended the SA Act, Article 7 of the Articles of Association of Investec Limited and, with effect from 7 August 2008, the number of ordinary shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited be and is hereby increased to 300 000 000 three hundred million by the creation of 22 500 000 twenty two million five hundred thousand new ordinary shares of ZAR0.0002 each in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited.
2 is to increase the number of ordinary shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited.
3: Investec Limited:Amendment to Memorandum of Association Resolved that: - subject to the passing and registration of the above special resolution no.
2 and the passing of special resolution no.
11 as contained in the Investec plc notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 7 August 2008, in terms of Section 56 4 of the Companies Act, Act No.
61 of 1973, as amended, the SA Act, Article 149 of the Articles of Association of Investec Limited and with effect from 7 August 2008, the Memorandum of Association of Investec Limited be amended by the deletion of the entire paragraph 8 a and the substitution thereof with the following new paragraph 8 a : 8 a Par value: The share capital of Investec Limited is R1 210 002.00 divided into: i 300 000 000 three hundred million ordinary shares of R0.0002 each: ii 40 000 000 forty million class A variable rate compulsorily convertible non-cumulative preference shares of R0.0002 each: iii 50 000 fifty thousand variable rate cumulative redeemable preference shares of R0.60 each: iv 100 000 000 one hundred million non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating preference shares of R0.01 each: v 1 one dividend access South African Resident redeemable preference share of R1.00: vi 1 one dividend access non-South African Resident redeemable preference share of R1.00: vii 560 000 000 five hundred and sixty million special convertible redeemable preference shares of R0.0002 each.
3 is to amend the Memorandum of Association of Investec Limited to correctly reflect the new authorised share capital of Investec Limited.
4: Investec Limited:Amendment to Articles of Association: Multiple proxies Resolved that: - subject to the passing of special resolution no.
12 as contained in the Investec plc notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 7 August 2008 and such resolution becoming effective and with effect from 7 August 2008, the Articles of Association of Investec Limited be amended by the insertion of the following new Article 72A: 72A A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by him.
4 is to align the Articles of Association of Investec Limited to those of Investec plc, in accordance with the Dual Listed Company agreements.
5: Investec Limited:Amendment to Articles of Association: Demand for a poll Resolved that: - subject to the passing of special resolution no.
12 as contained in the Investec plc notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 7 August 2008 and such resolution becoming effective and with effect from 7 August 2008, the Articles of Association of Investec Limited be amended by the deletion of the current Article 57.2 a and the substitution thereof with the following new Article 57.2 a : 57.2 a not less than 5 five members in person or by proxy and entitled to vote: or The reason for and effect of special resolution no.
5 is to align the Articles of Association of Investec Limited to those of Investec plc, in accordance with the Dual Listed Company agreements.
6: Investec Limited:Amendment to Articles of Association: Corporate representation Resolved that: - subject to the passing of special resolution no.
12 as contained in the Investec plc notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 7 August 2008 and such resolution becoming effective and with effect from 7 August 2008, the Articles of Association of Investec Limited be amended by the deletion of the current Article 75 and the substitution thereof with the following new Article 75: 75 Corporations acting by representatives Subject to the Statutes, any corporation which is a member of the company may, by resolution of its directors or other governing body, authorise a person or persons to act as its representative or representatives at any General Meeting.
6 is to align the Articles of Association of Investec Limited to those of Investec plc, in accordance with the Dual Listed Company agreements.
7: Investec Limited:Amendment to Articles of Association:Timing for the deposit of form of proxy Resolved that: - subject to the passing of special resolution no.
12 as contained in the Investec plc notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 7 August 2008 and such resolution becoming effective and with effect from 7 August 2008, the Articles of Association of Investec Limited be amended by the deletion of the current Article 72 and the substitution thereof with the following new Article 72: 72 Deposit of form of proxy An instrument appointing a proxy must be left at such place or one of such places, if any, as may be specified for that purpose in or by way of note to or in any document accompanying the notice convening the meeting or, if no place is so specified, at the Transfer Office, not more than forty eight hours or such lesser period as the directors may specify in the notice of a General Meeting before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting or in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the meeting or adjourned meeting for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used, and in default shall not be treated as valid.
A proxy received from the holder of the Limited special converting shares will be valid if it is received before the closing of the poll to which it relates.
The instrument shall, unless the contrary is stated thereon, be valid as well for any adjournment of the meeting as for the meeting to which it relates.
An instrument of proxy relating to more than one meeting, including any adjournment thereof, having once been so delivered for the purposes of any meeting shall not require again to be delivered for the purposes of any subsequent meeting to which it relates.
7 is to change the period in which a form of proxy must be deposited before the time appointed for a general or an Annual General Meeting from a minimum of 48 forty eight hours to a maximum of 48 forty eight hours thereby aligning the Articles of Association of Investec Limited to those of Investec plc, in accordance with the Dual Listed Company agreements.
8: Investec Limited: Replacement of the Articles of Association Resolved that: - with effect from 7 August 2008, the copy of the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification be and are hereby adopted as the new Articles of Association of Investec Limited, in substitution for and to the exclusion of the existing Articles of Association and to the extent that special resolution nos.
4, 5, 6 and 7 are passed and registered, these amendments will also be included in the new Articles of Association.
The reason for and effect of special resolution No.
8 is to update and consolidate the Articles of Association of Investec Limited by incorporating all amendments made thereto from July 2002 up to the date of this notice and to the extent that special resolution nos.
Ordinary resolution: Investec Limited: Directors' authority to take action in respect of the resolutions Resolved that: - any director or the Company Secretary of Investec Limited, be and is hereby authorised to do all things and sign all documents which may be necessary to carry into effect the aforesaid resolutions to the extent the same have been passed and, where applicable, registered.
Ordinary business: Investec plc To consider and, if deemed fit, to pass, with or without modification, the following resolutions of Investec plc: 32.
To receive and adopt the audited financial statements of Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2008, together with the reports of the directors of Investec plc and of the auditors of Investec plc.
To approve the remuneration report of Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2008.
To sanction the interim dividend paid by Investec plc on the ordinary shares in Investec plc for the 6 six month period ended 30 September 2007.
15, to declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares in Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 of an amount equal to that recommended by the directors of Investec plc.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP of 1 More London Place, London, SE1 2AF, as auditors of Investec plc to hold office until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2009 and to authorise the directors of Investec plc to fix their remuneration.
2008 Investec Annual Report 295 Notices Special business: Investec plc To consider and, if deemed fit, to pass, with or without modification, the following resolutions of Investec plc: 37.
Ordinary resolution: Investec plc: Directors' authority to allot shares and other securities Resolved that: - the authority conferred on the directors of Investec plc by paragraph 12.2 of Article 12 of Investec plc's Articles of Association be renewed for the period ending on the date of the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2009 or, if earlier, 15 fifteen months from the date on which this resolution is passed, and for such period the Section 80 of the Companies Act, 1985 amount shall be: unless and until such date that special resolution no.
2 becomes effective, 866 660 eight hundred and sixty six thousand six hundred and sixty Pounds Sterling : or from the date on which special resolution no.
2 becomes effective, 871 160 eight hundred and seventy one thousand one hundred and sixty Pounds Sterling.
The Articles of Association of Investec plc permit the directors of Investec plc to allot shares and other securities in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act, 1985, up to an amount authorised by the shareholders in general meeting.
The authority conferred on the directors at Investec plc's Annual General Meeting held on 8 August 2007 expires on the date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of Investec plc convened for 7 August 2008 and the directors of Investec plc recommend that this authority be renewed.
2 will, if passed, authorise the directors of Investec plc to allot Investec plc's unissued shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 871 160 eight hundred and seventy one thousand one hundred and sixty Pounds Sterling as set out in the table below: Number of Par value Relative part Total unissued of Section 80 Shares amount 1 Ordinary shares 135 825 632 27 165 9 055 2 3 Special converting shares 64 579 502 12 916 12 916 871 160 Non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating preference 2 shares perpetual preference shares 84 918 851 849 189 849 189 1.
One third of value issued in line with that normally adopted by UK Companies.
Based on 100% one hundred per cent of the number of the unissued shares.
This amount is higher than the one third of issued ordinary share capital limit normally adopted by UK companies at their Annual General Meetings to allow the directors of Investec plc to issue special converting shares in Investec plc as and when required in accordance with the agreements which constitute Investec's Dual Listed Company structure and to issue all of the unissued Investec plc perpetual preference shares, which would not dilute share holdings of ordinary shares.
While the authority to allot shares to the value of 871 160 eight hundred and seventy one thousand one hundred and sixty Pounds Sterling is given in respect of all of the relevant securities of Investec plc, the directors of Investec plc would ensure that the shares of each class listed in the above table allotted by them would not be in excess of the amount listed in the column entitled Relative part of Section 80 amount for each such class of shares.
As of 17 June 2008 the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice, Investec plc holds 3 006 465 three million and six thousand four hundred and sixty five treasury shares which represent less than 1% one per cent of the total ordinary share capital of Investec plc in issue.
9: Investec plc: Directors' authority to allot ordinary shares for cash Resolved that: - subject to the passing of resolution no.
37, the power conferred on the directors of Investec plc by paragraph 12.4 of Article 12 of Investec plc's Articles of Association be renewed for the period referred to in resolution no.
37 and for such period the Section 89 of the Companies Act, 1985 amount shall be 6 596 six thousand five hundred and ninety six Pounds Sterling.
2008 Investec Annual Report 296 Notices The purpose of special resolution no.
9 is to renew the authority of the directors of Investec plc to allot equity securities for cash otherwise than to shareholders in proportion to existing holdings.
In the case of allotments other than rights issues, the authority is limited to equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 6 596 six thousand five hundred and ninety six Pounds Sterling which represents approximately 5% five per cent of the total combined issued ordinary share capital of Investec plc and Investec Limited as at 10 June 2008 being the last practicable date prior to publication of this notice.
The authority will expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2009 or, if earlier, 15 fifteen months after the passing of this special resolution no.
9 are both passed and, subject to the limits specified in those respective resolutions, the directors will have authority to allot up to an aggregate of 5% five per cent of the total combined issued ordinary share capital of Investec plc and Investec Limited for cash other than by way of rights issue.
The directors also confirm that pursuant to the Dual Listed Company structure, the exercise of any such authority would be subject to the following specific limitations as required by the Listings Requirements of the JSE Limited JSE Listings Requirements : i this authority shall not extend beyond the later of the date of the next Annual General Meeting of Investec plc or the date of the expiry of 15 fifteen months from the date of the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc convened for 7 August 2008: ii a paid press announcement giving full details including the impact on net asset value and earnings per ordinary share, will be published at the time of an issue representing, on a cumulative basis within 1 one financial year, 5% five per cent or more of the number of ordinary shares in issue prior to such issue: iii the issue in the aggregate in any 1 one financial year will not exceed 15% fifteen per cent of the number of ordinary shares in issue, including instruments which are compulsorily convertible: iv in determining the price at which an allotment and issue of ordinary shares may be made in terms of this authority, the maximum discount permitted will be 10% ten per cent of the weighted average traded price of the ordinary shares in question as determined over the 30 thirty days prior to the date that the price of the issue is determined or agreed by the directors of Investec plc: and v the equity securities shares must be issued to public shareholders and not to related parties.
In terms of the JSE Listings Requirements, in order for special resolution no.
9 to be given effect to a 75% seventy five per cent majority of the votes of all members present or represented by proxy at the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc and Investec Limited must be cast in favour of special resolution no.
10: Investec plc: Directors' authority to purchase ordinary shares Resolved that: - Investec plc be and is hereby unconditionally and generally authorised for the purpose of Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985, the 1985 Act to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the 1985 Act of ordinary shares in the capital of Investec plc provided that: i the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares which may be purchased is 42 417 437 forty two million four hundred and seventeen thousand four hundred and thirty seven ordinary shares of 0.0002 each: ii the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is its nominal value of such share at the time of purchase: iii the maximum price which may be paid for any ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% one hundred and five per cent of the average of the middle market quotations of the ordinary shares of Investec plc as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 5 five business days immediately preceding the day on which such share is contracted to be purchased: and iv this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2009, or if earlier, 15 fifteen months from the date on which this resolution is passed except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares, the contract for which was concluded before the expiry of such authority and which might be executed wholly or partly after such expiry unless such authority is renewed prior to that time.
The directors of Investec plc consider it may, in certain circumstances, be in the best interests of shareholders generally for Investec plc to purchase its own ordinary shares.
Accordingly, the purpose and effect of special resolution no.
10 is to grant a general authority, subject to the specified limits, to Investec plc to acquire ordinary shares of Investec plc.
As of 17 June 2008 the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice, there were options outstanding over 31 037 860 ordinary shares, representing 7.3% seven comma three per cent of Investec plc's issued ordinary share capital at that date.
If the authority to buy back shares under this special resolution no.
10 was exercised in full, the total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares would represent 8.1% eight comma one per cent of Investec plc's issued ordinary share capital.
2008 Investec Annual Report 297 Notices The Companies Acquisition of own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 the Regulations permit Investec plc to purchase its own ordinary shares to be held in treasury, with a view to possible resale at a future date as opposed to cancelling these shares as previously required.
The directors of Investec plc have no present intention of making any purchases, but believe that Investec plc should retain the flexibility to take further action if future purchases were considered desirable and in the best interest of shareholders.
If Investec plc were to purchase shares under the regulations they will be cancelled or, to the extent determined by the directors of Investec plc, held in treasury, provided that the number of shares held in treasury at any one time does not exceed 10% ten per cent of Investec plc's issued ordinary share capital.
The authority will be exercised only if the directors of Investec plc believe that to do so would result in an increase of earnings per ordinary share and would be in the interests of shareholders generally or, in the case of the creation of treasury shares, that to do so would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
In order for special resolution no.
10 to be passed, a 75% seventy five per cent majority of the votes of all members present or represented by proxy at the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited must be cast in favour of special resolution no.
Ordinary resolution: Investec plc: Political donations Resolved that: - in accordance with Section 366 of the Companies Act, 2006 the 2006 Act the company and any company which, at any time during the period for which this resolution has effect, is a subsidiary of the company, be and are hereby authorised to: i make donations to political organisations not exceeding 25 000 twenty-five thousand Pounds Sterling in total: and ii incur political expenditure not exceeding 75 000 seventy five thousand Pounds Sterling in total.
In each case during the period commencing on the date of this resolution and ending on the date of the Annual General Meeting of the company to be held in 2009, provided that the maximum amounts referred to in i and ii above may consist of sums in any currency converted into pounds Sterling at such rate as the company may in its absolute discretion determine.
For the purposes of this resolution, the terms political donations, political organisations and political expenditure shall have the meanings given to them in Sections 363 to 365 of the 2006 Act.
The reason and effect of resolution no.
40 is that the 2006 Act requires companies to obtain shareholder approval before they can make donations to EU political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
The company does not give any money for political purposes in the UK nor does the company make any donations to EU political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
However, the definitions of political donations and political expenditure used in the 2006 Act are very wide.
The authority is a precautionary measure to ensure that the company does not inadvertently breach the 2006 Act.
11: Investec plc: Increase in special converting share capital Resolved that: - subject to the passing and registration of special resolution no.
2 as contained in the Investec Limited notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 7 August 2008, the number of authorised special converting shares of 0.0002 each in the authorised share capital of Investec plc be and is hereby increased to 300 000 000 three hundred million by the creation of 22 500 000 twenty two million five hundred thousand new special converting shares of 0.0002 each.
The reason and effect of special resolution no.
11 is to align the number of authorised special converting shares following the increase in the authorised ordinary share capital of Investec Limited, thereby complying with the Dual Listed Company agreements in place between Investec plc and Investec Limited.
11 to be passed, a 75% seventy five per cent majority of the votes of all members present or represented by proxy at the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited must be cast in favour of special resolution no.
12: Investec plc:Amendments to the Articles of Association Resolved that: - with effect from 7 August 2008, the Articles of Association of Investec plc which were produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification as new Articles A be and are hereby adopted as the new Articles of Association of Investec plc New Articles, with effect from the end of this meeting or, if earlier, from 22:00 UK time on the date on which this resolution is passed, in substitution for and to the exclusion of all existing Articles of Association and, to the effect that special resolution nos.
2 and 11 are passed and registered, if required, these amendments will also be included into the new Articles.
This resolution is to adopt new Articles that reflect the provisions of the UK Companies Act, 2006 the 2006 Act enacted to the date of this notice of Annual General Meeting or which are expected to be enacted by 1 October 2008.
12 is to amend and replace the Articles of Association of Investec plc to reflect those provisions of the 2006 Act that either are already in force or are expected to be enacted by 1 October 2008.
The Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited are broadly identical, the differences being due to variances in applicable law in South Africa and the UK.
The main amendments to the Investec plc Articles of Association are as follows: i provisions in the current Articles which replicate provisions contained in the Companies Act, 1985 are amended to bring them into line with the 2006 Act: ii provisions in the current Articles dealing with the convening of general meetings and the length of notice required to convene general meetings are being amended to conform to new provisions in the 2006 Act: iii the time limits for the appointment or termination of a proxy appointment have been altered by the 2006 Act so that proxies cannot be received more than 48 hours before the meeting or, in the case of a poll being taken not less than 48 hours after the meeting, more than 24 hours before the time for the taking of a poll, with weekends and bank holidays being permitted to be excluded for this purpose: iv multiple proxies may be appointed provided each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share held by the member: v under the 2006 Act, from 1 October 2008, a director must avoid situations where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or may conflict with the company's interests.
The 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts.
The new Articles give the directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
12 to be passed, a 75% seventy five per cent majority of the votes of all members present or represented by proxy at the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited must be cast in favour of special resolution no.
Ordinary resolution: Investec plc: Directors' authority to take action in respect of the resolutions Resolved that: - any director or the company secretary of Investec plc, be and is hereby authorised to do all things and sign all documents which may be necessary to carry into effect the aforesaid resolutions to the extent the same have been passed and where applicable, registered.
The directors of Investec plc consider that the proposed resolutions in the notice of the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of Investec plc and its shareholders and recommends that you vote in favour as the directors of Investec plc intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
By order of the board David Miller Company Secretary 17 June 2008 Registered No: 3633621 Registered Office: 2 Gresham Street London EC2V 7QP 2008 Investec Annual Report 299 Notices Notes: 1.
All of the above resolutions are Joint Electorate Actions under the Articles of Association of Investec plc and, accordingly, both the holders of ordinary shares in Investec plc and the holder of the special voting share in Investec plc are entitled to vote.
Voting will be on a poll which will remain open for sufficient time to allow the Investec Limited Annual General Meeting to be held and for the votes of the holder of the Investec plc special voting share to be ascertained and cast on a poll.
On the poll: a each fully paid ordinary share in Investec plc other than those subject to voting restrictions will have one vote: b the holder of the Investec plc special voting share will cast the same number of votes as were validly cast for and against the equivalent resolution by Investec Limited shareholders on the poll at the Investec Limited Annual General Meeting: c the holder of the Investec plc special voting share will be obliged to cast these votes for and against the relevant resolutions in accordance with the votes cast for and against the equivalent resolution by Investec Limited shareholders on the poll at the Investec Limited Annual General Meeting: d through this mechanism, the votes of the Investec Limited shareholders at the Investec Limited Annual General Meeting will be reflected at Investec plc's Annual General Meeting in respect of each Joint Electorate Action: and e the results of the Joint Electorate Action will be announced after both polls have closed.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more persons as his or her proxy to exercise all or any of his or her rights to attend and to speak and vote at the meeting, provided that, if more than one proxy is appointed by a member, each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a member of the Investec Limited or Investec plc.
A form of proxy is enclosed.
The appointment of a proxy will not prevent a member from subsequently attending and voting at the meeting in person.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the company in accordance with section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the registered shareholder who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, and any power of attorney or other authority under which it was executed or a duly certified copy of any such power or authority must be returned so as to reach Investec plc's registrars, Computershare Investor Services plc, The Pavillions, Bridgewater Road, Bristol BS99 3FA, not less than 48 forty eight hours before the time for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the meeting or adjourned meeting for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
Entitlement to attend and vote at the meeting and the number of votes which may be cast thereat will be determined by reference to Investec plc's register of members at 11:00 UK time on 5 August 2008 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 48 forty eight hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, as the case may be.
The form of proxy and voting instruction form include a Vote Withheld option against each resolution, which enables a member to abstain on that resolution.
However, it should be noted that a Vote Withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes For and Against that resolution.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the Annual General Meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that: i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the chairman and the chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting, but the corporate representative has not appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to in the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the chairman is being appointed.
Copies of Investec plc's and Investec Limited's new Articles of Association are available for inspection at Investec plc and Investec Limited's registered office during business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and any public holidays excluded from the date of this notice until the close of Investec plc and Investec Limited's Annual General Meeting to be convened on, 7 August 2008 and will also be available for inspection at the place of the meeting for 15 fifteen minutes before and during the meeting.
2008 Investec Annual Report 300 Notices Investec Limited Reg.
1925 002833 06 Share Code: INL ISIN: ZAE000081949 Notice of Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited will be held at 12:00 South African time on Thursday, 7 August 2008, in the Auditorium, Ground Floor, at the registered office of Investec Limited at 100 Grayston Drive, Sandown, Sandton, 2196, to transact the following business: Common business: Investec plc and Investec Limited To consider and if deemed fit, to pass, with or without modification, the following ordinary resolutions of Investec plc and Investec Limited: 1.
2 becomes effective, 6 457 950 six million four hundred and fifty seven thousand nine hundred and fifty ordinary shares of ZAR0.0002 each being 10% ten per cent of the unissued ordinary shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited be and are hereby placed under the control of the directors of Investec Limited as a general authority in terms of Section 221 of the South African Companies Act, No.
94 of 1990, as amended and the Listings Requirements of the JSE Limited 2008 Investec Annual Report 302 Notices.
21 and 38 are both passed, and subject to the limits specified in those respective resolutions, the directors will have authority to allot up to an aggregate of 5% five per cent of the total combined issued ordinary share capital of Investec plc and Investec Limited for cash other than by way of rights issue.
Ordinary resolution: Investec Limited: Directors' authority to allot and issue class A variable rate compulsorily convertible non-cumulative preference shares for cash Resolved that: - subject to the passing of resolution no.
61 of 1973, as amended, the directors of Investec Limited be and they are hereby authorised to allot and issue 4 000 000 four million class A variable rate compulsorily convertible non-cumulative preference shares Class A Preference Shares of ZAR0.0002 each being 10% ten per cent of the unissued Class A preference shares in the authorised share capital of Investec Limited for cash as and when suitable situations arise, subject to the following specific limitations as required by the JSE Listings Requirements: i this authority shall not extend beyond the later of the date of the next Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2009 or the date of the expiry of 15 fifteen months from the date of the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited convened for 7 August 2008: ii a paid press announcement giving full details including the impact on net asset value and earnings per Class A preference share, will be published at the time of an issue representing, on a cumulative basis within 1 one financial year, 5% five per cent or more of the number of Class A preference shares in issue prior to such issue: iii the issue in the aggregate in any 1 one financial year will not exceed 15% fifteen per cent of the number of Class A preference shares in issue, including instruments which are compulsorily convertible: 2008 Investec Annual Report 303 Notices iv in determining the price at which an allotment and issue of Class A preference shares may be made in terms of this authority, the maximum discount permitted will be 10% ten per cent of the weighted average traded price of the Class A preference shares in question as determined over the 30 thirty days prior to the date that the price of the issue is determined or agreed by the directors of Investec Limited: and v the equity securities shares must be issued to public shareholders and not to related parties.
1: iii an announcement containing full details of such acquisitions will be published as soon as Investec Limited or any of its subsidiaries has acquired ordinary shares or perpetual preference shares constituting, on a cumulative basis, 3% three per cent of the number of ordinary shares or perpetual preference shares in issue, as the case may be, prior to the acquisition pursuant to which the aforesaid 3% three per cent threshold is reached and for each 3% three per cent in aggregate acquired thereafter: iv acquisitions of shares in aggregate in any 1 one financial year may not exceed 20% twenty per cent of Investec Limited's issued ordinary share capital or Investec Limited's issued perpetual preference share capital as at the date of passing of this special resolution no.
2008 Investec Annual Report 304 Notices The directors of Investec Limited have no present intention of making any repurchases but believe that Investec Limited should retain the flexibility to take action if future repurchases are considered desirable and in the best interests of shareholders.
12 as contained in the Investec plc notice of Annual General Meeting convened for 7 August 2008 and such resolution becoming effective and with effect from 7 August 2008, the Articles of Association of Investec Limited be amended by the deletion of the current Article 75 and the substitution thereof with the following new Article 75: 75 Corporations acting by representatives Subject to the statutes, any corporation which is a member of the company may, by resolution of its directors or other governing body, authorise a person or persons to act as its representative or representatives at any General Meeting.
7 is to change the period in which a form of proxy must be deposited before the time appointed for a general or an Annual General Meeting from a minimum of 48 forty eight to a maximum of 48 forty eight hours, thereby aligning the Articles of Association of Investec Limited to those of Investec plc, in accordance with the Dual Listed Company agreements.
8 is to update and consolidate the Articles of Association of Investec Limited by incorporating all amendments made thereto from July 2002 and up to the date of this notice and to the extent that special resolution nos.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP of 1 More London Place, London SE1 2AF, as auditors of Investec plc to hold office until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2009 and to authorise the directors of Investec plc to fix their remuneration.
2008 Investec Annual Report 307 Notices Special business: Investec plc To consider and, if deemed fit, to pass, with or without modification, the following resolutions of Investec plc: 37.
One third of value issued in line with that normally adopted by UK companies.
While the authority to allot shares to the value of 871 160 eight hundred and seventy-one thousand one hundred and sixty Pounds Sterling is given in respect of all of the relevant securities of Investec plc, the directors of Investec plc would ensure that the shares of each class listed in the above table allotted by them would not be in excess of the amount listed in the column entitled Relative part of Section 80 amount for each such class of shares.
Ordinary resolution: Investec plc: Directors' authority to allot ordinary shares for cash Resolved that: - subject to the passing of resolution no.
2008 Investec Annual Report 308 Notices The purpose of resolution no.
38 is to renew the authority of the directors of Investec plc to allot equity securities for cash otherwise than to shareholders in proportion to existing holdings.
In the case of allotments other than rights issues, the authority is limited to equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 6 596 six thousand five hundred and ninety six pounds Sterling which represents approximately 5% five per cent of the total combined issued ordinary share capital of Investec plc and Investec Limited as at 10 June 2008 being the last practicable date prior to publication of this notice.
The authority will expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2009 or, if earlier, 15 fifteen months after the passing of this resolution no.
21 and 38 are both passed and, subject to the limits specified in those respective resolutions, the directors will have authority to allot up to an aggregate of 5% five per cent of the total combined issued ordinary share capital of Investec plc and Investec Limited for cash other than by way of rights issue.
38 to be given effect to, a 75% seventy five per cent majority of the votes of all members present or represented by proxy at the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc and Investec Limited must be cast in favour of resolution no.
Ordinary resolution: Investec plc: Directors' authority to purchase ordinary shares Resolved that: - Investec plc be and is hereby unconditionally and generally authorised for the purpose of Section 166 of the Companies Act, 1985 the 1985 Act to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the 1985 Act of ordinary shares in the capital of Investec plc provided that: i the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares which may be purchased is 42 417 437 forty two million four hundred and seventeen thousand four hundred and thirty seven ordinary shares of 0.0002 each: ii the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is its nominal value of such share at the time of purchase: iii the maximum price which may be paid for any ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% one hundred and five per cent of the average of the middle market quotations of the ordinary shares of Investec plc as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 5 five business days immediately preceding the day on which such share is contracted to be purchased: and iv this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2009, or if earlier, 15 fifteen months from the date on which this resolution is passed except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares, the contract for which was concluded before the expiry of such authority and which might be executed wholly or partly after such expiry unless such authority is renewed prior to that time.
Accordingly, the purpose and effect of resolution no.
39 is to grant a general authority, subject to the specified limits, to Investec plc to acquire ordinary shares of Investec plc.
If the authority to buy back shares under this resolution no.
39 was exercised in full, the total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares would represent 8.1% eight comma one per cent of Investec plc's issued ordinary share capital.
2008 Investec Annual Report 309 Notices The Companies Acquisition of own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 the Regulations permit Investec plc to purchase its own ordinary shares to be held in treasury, with a view to possible resale at a future date as opposed to cancelling these shares as previously required.
In order for resolution no.
39 to be passed, a 75% seventy five per cent majority of the votes of all members present or represented by proxy at the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited must be cast in favour of resolution no.
Ordinary resolution: Investec plc: Political donations Resolved that: - in accordance with Section 366 of the Companies Act, 2006 the 2006 Act the company and any company which, at any time during the period for which this resolution has effect, is a subsidiary of the company, be and are hereby authorised to: i make donations to political organisations not exceeding 25 000 twenty five thousand Pounds Sterling in total: and ii incur political expenditure not exceeding 75 000 seventy five thousand Pounds Sterling in total.
In each case during the period commencing on the date of this resolution and ending on the date of the Annual General Meeting of the company to be held in 2009, provided that the maximum amounts referred to in i and ii above may consist of sums in any currency converted into Pounds Sterling at such rate as the company may in its absolute discretion determine.
The authority given is a precautionary measure to ensure that the company does not inadvertently breach the 2006 Act.
Ordinary resolution: Investec plc: Increase in special converting share capital Resolved that: - subject to the passing and registration of special resolution No.
41 is to align the number of authorised special converting shares following the increase in the authorised ordinary share capital of Investec Limited, thereby complying with the Dual Listed Company agreements in place between Investec plc and Investec Limited.
41 to be passed, a 75% seventy five per cent majority of the votes of all members present or represented by proxy at the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited must be cast in favour of resolution no.
Ordinary resolution: Investec plc: Amendments to the Articles of Association generally Resolved that: - with effect from 7 August 2008, the Articles of Association of Investec plc which were produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification as new Articles A be and are hereby adopted as the new Articles of Association of Investec plc New Articles, with effect from the end of this meeting or, if earlier, from 22:00 UK time on the date on which this resolution is passed, in substitution for and to the exclusion of all existing Articles of Association and, to the effect that special resolution no.
41 are passed and registered, if required, these amendments will also be included into the new Articles.
2008 Investec Annual Report 310 Notices The reason for and effect of resolution no.
42 is to amend and replace the Articles of Association of Investec plc to reflect those provisions of the 2006 Act that either are already in force or are expected to be enacted by 1 October 2008.
42 to be passed, a 75% seventy five per cent majority of the votes of all members present or represented by proxy at the Annual General Meeting of Investec Limited must be cast in favour of resolution no.
The directors of Investec Limited consider that the proposed resolutions in the notice of the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of Investec Limited and its shareholders and recommend that you vote in favour as the directors of Investec Limited intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
By order of the board Benita Coetsee Company Secretary 17 June 2008 Registration No: 1925 002833 06 Registered Office: c o Company Secretarial Investec Limited 100 Grayston Drive Sandown Sandton, 2196 PO Box 785700, Sandton, 2146 2008 Investec Annual Report 311 Notices Notes: 1.
All of the above resolutions are Joint Electorate Actions under the Articles of Association of Investec Limited and accordingly, both the holders of ordinary shares in Investec Limited and the holders of the special convertible redeemable preference shares in Investec Limited are entitled to vote.
Voting will be on a poll which will remain open for sufficient time to allow the Investec plc Annual General Meeting to be held and for the vote of the holder of Investec Limited's special convertible redeemable preference shares to be ascertained and cast on a poll.
On the poll: a each ordinary share in Investec Limited other than those subject to voting restrictions will have 1 one vote: b the holder of Investec Limited's special convertible redeemable preference shares will cast the same number of votes as were validly cast for and against the equivalent resolution at the Investec plc Annual General Meeting: c the holder of Investec Limited's special convertible redeemable preference shares will be obliged to cast these votes for and against the relevant resolution in accordance with the votes cast for and against the equivalent resolution by Investec plc shareholders on the poll at the Investec plc Annual General Meeting: d through this mechanism, the votes of the Investec plc shareholders at the Investec plc Annual General Meeting will be reflected at Investec Limited's Annual General Meeting in respect of each Joint Electorate Action: and e the results of the Joint Electorate Actions will be announced after both polls have closed.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy and any power of attorney or other authority under which it is executed or a duly certified copy of any such power or authority, must be deposited at the Transfer Secretary's office at 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg, 2001, not less than 48 forty eight hours before the time for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the meeting or adjourned meeting for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
Entitlement to attend and vote at the meeting and the number of votes which may be cast thereat will be determined by reference to Investec Limited's register of members at 12:00 South African time on 5 August 2008 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 48 forty eight hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, as the case may be.
Copies of Investec plc and Investec Limited's new Articles of Association are available for inspection at Investec plc and Investec Limited's registered office during business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and any public holidays excluded from the date of this notice until the close of Investec plc and Investec Limited's Annual General Meeting to be convened on 7 August 2008 and will also be available for inspection at the place of the meeting for 15 fifteen minutes before and during the meeting.
2008 Investec Annual Report 312 Notices Contact details Australia, Brisbane Hong Kong Level 31 Riparian Plaza 71 Eagle Street 2106 - 2108 Jardine House 1 Connaught Place Brisbane QLD 4000 Australia Central Hong Kong Telephone 61 7 3018 8100 Telephone 852 2861 6888 Facsimile 61 7 3018 8108 Facsimile 852 2861 6861 e-mail australia@investec.
com Australia, Melbourne Ireland, Dublin Level 49 120 Collins Street The Harcourt Building Melbourne VIC 3000 Australia Harcourt Street Dublin 2 Ireland Telephone 61 3 8660 1000 Telephone 353 1 421 0000 Facsimile 61 3 8660 1010 Facsimile 353 1 421 0500 e-mail australia@investec.
ie Australia, Perth Mauritius, Port Louis Level 21 140 St George's Terrace 7th Floor Harbour Front Building Perth WA 6000 Australia President John Kennedy Street Telephone 61 89 485 4000 Port Louis Mauritius Facsimile 61 89 485 4010 Telephone 230 207 4000 e-mail australia@investec.
au Facsimile 230 207 4003 e-mail info@investec.
com Australia, Sydney Namibia, Windhoek Level 31 The Chifley Tower 2 Chifley Square Sydney NSW 2000 Australia 5 Conradie Street ground floor Investment House Telephone 61 2 9236 000 Windhoek Namibia Facsimile 61 2 9236 0001 Telephone 264 61 249 626 e-mail australia@investec.
au Facsimile 264 61 249 689 e-mail info@investec.
com Botswana, Gaborone South Africa, Cape Town 10 Kgale Mews Lot 115 Millenium Office Park Gaborone Botswana 36 Hans Strijdom Avenue Foreshore Telephone 09 267 318 0112 Cape Town 8001 Facsimile 09 267 318 0114 PO Box 1826 Cape Town 8000 e-mail info@investec.
com Telephone 27 21 416 1000 Facsimile 27 21 416 1001 Canada, Toronto South Africa, Durban TD Bank Tower 66 Wellington Street West Suite 2701 Toronto 1 Holwood Park 5 Canegate Drive PO Box 307 Toronto Ontario M5K 1K2 La Lucia Ridge Office Estate Durban 4320 Telephone 1 416 915 3160 PO Box 3912 Durban 4000 Facsimile 1 416 915 3165 Telephone 27 31 575 4000 Facsimile 27 86 500 9901 Channel Islands, St Helier South Africa, East London PO Box 344 5 Castle Street St Helier 1st Floor Pilot Mill House The Quarry Jersey JE4 8UZ Selbourne East London 5247 Telephone 44 1534 512 512 PO Box 19484 Tacoma 5214 Facsimile 44 1534 512 513 Telephone 27 43 721 0660 e-mail enquiries@investectrust.
com Facsimile 27 43 721 0664 Channel Islands, St Peter Port PO Box 188 La Vieille Cour St Peter Port Guernsey GY1 3LP Telephone 44 1481 723 506 Facsimile 44 1481 741 147 e-mail enquiries@investec-ci.
com 2008 Investec Annual Report 313 Contact details Contact details South Africa, Johannesburg Switzerland, Geneva 100 Grayston Drive Sandown Sandton 2196 3 Place des Bergues PO Box 785700 Sandton 2146 1201 Geneva Switzerland Telephone 27 11 286 7000 Telephone 41 22 807 2000 Facsimile 27 11 286 7777 Facsimile 41 22 807 2005 e-mail, South African offices e-mail enquiries@investectrust.
ch Recruitment queries recruitment@investec.
co. za Switzerland, Zurich Client queries - Asset management: comcentre@investecmail.
com Loewenstrasse 29 - Institutional Securities: securities@investec.
co. za CH-8001 Zurich Switzerland - Private Client Securities: iso@investec.
co. za Telephone 41 44 226 1000 - Property Group: ipg@investec.
co. za Facsimile 41 44 226 1010 - Private Bank: privatebank@investec.
co. za e-mail info@investecbank.
ch - Capital Markets: info-tsf@investec.
co. za United Kingdom, London South Africa, Port Elizabeth 2 Gresham Street Fairview Office Park 66 Ring Road Greenacres London EC2V 7QP Port Elizabeth 6057 Telephone 44 20 7597 4000 PO Box 27416 Greenacres 6057 Facsimile 44 20 7597 4070 Telephone 27 41 391 9400 Facsimile 27 41 374 8346 7 United Kingdom, Manchester South Africa, Pretoria The Pinnacle 73 King Street Manchester M24NG United Kingdom Cnr Atterbury and Klarinet Streets Menlo Park Pretoria 0081 Telephone 44 161 819 7900 PO Box 1882 Brooklyn Square 0075 Facsimile 44 161 819 7901 Telephone 27 12 427 8300 e-mail richard.
co. uk Facsimile 27 12 427 8301 United Kingdom, Abingdon South Africa, Pietermaritzburg 2 New Abbey Court 55 - 59 Stert Street Redlands Estate 1 George MacFarlane Lane Abingdon Oxfordshire OX14 3JF United Kingdom Pietermaritzburg 3201 Telephone 44 1235 555 577 P O Box 594 Pietermaritzburg 3200 Facsimile 44 1235 555 734 Telephone 27 33 264 5800 email iaf@investec.
co. uk Fax 27 33 342 1561 United States, New York South Africa, Knysna 1 Battery Park Plaza TH24 & TH25 Long Street Thesen Harbour Town New York NY 10004 USA Knysna 6570 Telephone 212 898 6200 Telephone 27 44 302 1800 Facsimile 212 898 6255 Facsimile 27 44 382 4954 Taiwan South Africa, Nelspruit Unit B 20F Taipei 101 Tower 7 Xin Yi Rd.
5 Corporate Corner 21 Murray Street Taipei 110 Taiwan Nelspruit 1200 Telephone 886 2 8101 0800 Telephone 27 13 752 6378 Facsimile 886 2 8101 0900 Facsimile 27 13 752 6406 South Africa, Stellenbosch fide Wagenweg Office Park Stellentian Avenue Stellenbosch 7600 Telephone 27 21 809 0700 Facsimile 27 21 809 0730 2008 Investec Annual Report 314 Form of proxy Form of proxy Form of proxy for Annual General Meeting on 7 August 2008 at 12:00 South African time Investec Limited Reg.
1925 002833 06 the Company Share code: INL ISIN: ZAE000081949 Only for use by members who have not dematerialised their Investec Limited shares or who have dematerialised their shares and selected own name registration with Computershare's CSDP For use by Investec Limited members who have not dematerialised their shares or who have dematerialised their Investec Limited Shares but with own name registration at the Investec Limited Annual General Meeting to be held at 12:00 South African time on Thursday, 7 August 2008 in the Auditorium, Ground Floor, at the registered office of Investec Limited, 100 Grayston Drive, Sandown, Sandton, South Africa.
Members who have dematerialised their Investec Limited Shares must inform their Central Securities Depository Participant CSDP or broker of their intention to attend the Investec Limited Annual General Meeting and request their CSDP or broker to issue them with the necessary authorisation to attend or provide their CSDP or broker with their voting instructions should they not wish to attend the Investec Limited Annual General Meeting in person.
I We of being a holder s of ordinary shares of R0.0002 each do hereby appoint of or failing him of or failing them, the chairman of the meeting as my our proxy to vote for me us and on my our behalf at the annual general meeting of Investec Limited to be held on 7 August 2008 at 12:00 South African time and at any adjournment thereof.
Investec Limited In favour of Against Abstain Common business: Investec plc and Investec Limited To consider and, if deemed fit, to pass, with or without modification, the following ordinary resolutions of Investec plc and Investec Limited: 1.
To re-elect Samuel Ellis Abrahams as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited 2.
To re-elect Cheryl Ann Carolus as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited 3.
To re-elect Haruko Fukuda OBE as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited 4.
To re-elect Hugh Sidney Herman as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited 5.
To re-elect Geoffrey Michael Thomas Howe as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited 6.
To re-elect Bernard Kantor as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited 7.
To re-elect Ian Robert Kantor as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited 8.
To re-elect Sir Chips Keswick as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited 9.
To re-elect Mangalani Peter Malungani as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited 10.
To re-elect Peter Richard Suter Thomas as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited 2008 Investec Annual Report 315 Form of proxy Form of proxy Investec Limited In favour of Against Abstain Ordinary business: Investec Limited 11.
To receive and adopt the audited financial statements of Investec Limited for the year ended 31 March 2008 together with the reports of the directors of Investec Limited and of the auditors of Investec Limited 12.
To determine, ratify and approve the remuneration of the directors of Investec Limited for the year ended 31 March 2008 13.
To sanction the interim dividend paid by Investec Limited on the ordinary shares in Investec Limited for the six 6 month period ended 30 September 2007.
To sanction the interim dividend paid by Investec Limited on the dividend access South African Resident SA DAS redeemable preference share for the 6 six month period ended 30 September 2007 15.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares and the dividend access South African Resident SA DAS redeemable preference share in Investec Limited for the year ended 31 March 2008 of an amount equal to that recommended by the directors of Investec Limited.
To reappoint Ernst & Young Inc. as auditors of Investec Limited and to authorise the directors of Investec Limited to fix the remuneration of the auditors 17.
To reappoint KPMG Inc. as auditors of Investec Limited and to authorise the directors of Investec Limited to fix the remuneration of the auditors Special business: Investec Limited Ordinary resolutions 18.
To place 10% of the unissued ordinary shares of Investec Limited under the control of the directors of Investec Limited 19.
To place 10% of the unissued Class A variable rate compulsorily convertible non-cumulative preference shares of Investec Limited under the control of the directors of Investec Limited 20.
To place the remaining unissued shares, being the variable rate cumulative redeemable preference shares, the non-redeemable, non cumulative, non-participating preference shares and the special convertible redeemable preference shares under the control of the directors of Investec Limited 21.
Directors' authority to allot and issue 10% of the unissued ordinary shares of Investec Limited for cash 22.
Directors' authority to allot and issue 10% of the unissued Class A variable rate compulsorily convertible non-cumulative preference shares of Investec Limited for cash Special resolutions: Investec Limited 23.
Directors' authority to acquire ordinary shares and preference shares of Investec Limited 24.
Increase in authorised ordinary share capital 25.
Amendment to Memorandum of Association to reflect increase in authorised share capital 26.
Amendment to Articles of Association: Multiple Proxies 27.
Amendment to Articles of Association: Demand for a poll 28.
Amendment to Articles of Association: Corporate Representation 29.
Amendments to the Articles of Association:Timing for the deposit of form of proxy 30.
Replacement of the Articles of Association Ordinary resolution: Investec Limited 31.
Directors' authority to take action in respect of the resolutions Investec plc Ordinary business: Investec plc 32.
To receive and adopt the audited financial statements of Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 together with the reports of the directors and auditors of Investec plc 33.
To approve the Remuneration Report of Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 34.
To sanction the interim dividend paid by Investec plc on the ordinary shares in Investec plc for the 6 six month period ended 30 September 2007 35.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares in Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 of an amount equal to that recommended by the directors of Investec plc 2008 Investec Annual Report 316 Form of proxy Form of proxy Investec plc In favour of Against Abstain 36.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of Investec plc and to authorise the directors of Investec plc to fix the remuneration of the auditors Special business: Investec plc Ordinary resolutions 37.
Directors' authority to allot shares and other securities Section 80 authority 38.
Directors' authority to allot ordinary shares for cash Section 89 authority 39.
Directors' authority to purchase ordinary shares 40.
Increase in the authorised special converting share capital 42.
Amendments to the Articles of Association 43.
Directors' authority to take action in respect of the resolutions Signature Date A member entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy who need not be a member of the Company to attend, and, on a poll, to vote in his place.
Each resolution is to be decided on a poll and a member or his proxy shall have one vote for every share held.
You are not obliged either to cast all your votes or to cast all your votes in the same way.
Please instruct your proxy how to vote by either: i marking the appropriate box with an X next to each resolution, in which event the proxy will cast all your votes in the manner so specified: or ii setting out the number of votes to be cast in each box i. e. in favour of and or against and or by way of abstention in respect of each resolution provided that, if for any resolution the aggregate number of votes to be cast would exceed the total number of shares held, you will be deemed to have given no specific instruction as to how you wish your proxy to vote in respect of that resolution.
Your proxy will have discretion to vote in respect of your total holding on any resolution on which you have not or are deemed not to have given specific instruction as to how to vote and, unless instructed otherwise, on any business which may properly come before the meeting.
The date must be filled in on this form of proxy when it is signed.
If you are signing in a representative capacity, whether for another person or for an organisation, then, in order for this form to be valid, you must include a power of attorney or other written authority that authorises you to sign or a certified copy of such power or authority.
In the case of a company, the proxy form should either be sealed by the company or signed by a director or an authorised signatory and the provisions of paragraph 3 shall apply to such authorised signatory.
In the case of joint holders only one need sign.
If more than one joint holder votes, whether in person or by proxy, only the most senior shareholder who renders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, will be counted.
For this purpose, seniority is determined by the order in which shareholders' names appear in the register for that share.
Any alteration or correction made to this form of proxy must be initialled by the signatory or signatories.
The return of this form of proxy will not prevent you from attending the meeting and voting in person.
This form of proxy must be received by the company's Transfer Secretaries: Computershare Investor Services Proprietary Limited 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg, 2001 PO Box 61763, Marshalltown, 2107 not later than 12:00 South African time on Tuesday, 5 August 2008.
Proxy forms received after this time will not be valid.
Dematerialised members who have not selected own name registration and who wish to attend the annual general meeting or be represented by proxy must inform their CSDP or broker of their voting instructions.
However, should such member wish to attend the annual general meeting in person, they will need to request their CSDP or broker timeously who will furnish them with the necessary authority in terms of the custody agreement entered into between the dematerialised members and the CSDP or broker.
2008 Investec Annual Report 317 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2008 Corporate information Investec plc and Investec Limited Secretary and Registered Office Directorate Investec plc Executive directors David Miller Stephen Koseff Chief Executive Officer 2 Gresham Street Bernard Kantor Managing Director London EC2V 7QP Glynn Burger Group Risk and Finance Director United Kingdom Alan Tapnack Telephone 44 20 7597 4541 Facsimile 44 20 7597 4491 Non-executive directors Hugh Herman Non-executive Chairman Investec Limited Sam Abrahams Benita Coetsee George Alford 100 Grayston Drive Cheryl Carolus Sandown Sandton 2196 Haruko Fukuda OBE PO Box 785700 Sandton 2196 Geoffrey Howe Telephone 27 11 286 7957 Ian Kantor Facsimile 27 11 291 1806 Sir Chips Keswick Senior Independent NED Peter Malungani Internet address Sir David Prosser www.
com Peter Thomas Fani Titi Registration number Investec plc For queries regarding information in this document: Reg.
3633621 Investec Limited Investor Relations Reg.
com Ernst & Young Inc. Internet address: www.
com grouplinks investorrelations Transfer Secretaries in the UK Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 82 The Pavilions Bridgewater Road Bristol B599 7NH United Kingdom Telephone 44 870 702 0001 Transfer Secretaries in South Africa Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited 70 Marshall Street Johannesburg 2001 PO Box 61051 Marshalltown 2107 Telephone 27 11 370 5000 Overview of the year 1 Operating financial review 5 Risk and governance 23 Remuneration report 55 Our Business Responsibility 73 Additional information 76 Contents Financial statements 89 The Summary Financial Statements have been approved by the board of directors of the group and were signed on its behalf by the Chief Executive Officer, Mr S Koseff.
This document provides a summary of the information contained in Investec's 2008 annual report annual report.
It is not the group's statutory accounts and does not contain sufficient information to allow for a complete understanding of the results and state of affairs of the group as would be provided by the full annual report.
For further information consult the full annual financial statements, the unqualified auditors' reports on those financial statements and the directors' report.
The auditors' reports did not contain a statement under section 237 2 or section 237 3 of the UK Companies Act.
Should you wish to obtain a copy of the full 2008 annual report, please contact the Investor Relations division, whose contact details appear at the beginning of this report.
Furthermore, the 2008 annual report may be viewed on our website.
Overview of the year Overview of the year Snapshot of the year Overview Financial objectives Good operational performance supported by: Target 31 March 31 March - Diversity of income streams.
ROE 20% 23.6% 26.1% Met four of our five financial objectives.
Cost to income ratio 65% 56.1% 59.0% Balanced portfolio of businesses showing resilience.
Adjusted EPS growth 10% Very tough trading environment impacting the financial UK RPI 6.8% 27.2% markets.
Dividend cover times 1.7-2.3 2.3 2.3 Capital adequacy ratio 12% to 15% Plc: 15.3% Plc: 24.7% Ltd:13.9% Ltd:14.7% Financial highlights Operating profit before tax up 15.2% to 537.7 million.
Adjusted attributable earnings up 14.6% to 344.7 million.
Adjusted earnings per share up 6.8% to 56.9 pence.
Proposed full year dividend up 8.7% to 25.0 pence.
Customer deposits up 13.9% to 12.1 billion.
Core loans and advances up 27.3% to 12.9 billion.
Third party assets under management of 52.7 billion.
Benefiting from business and geographic breadth and diversity Operating profit before tax by geography % contribution to operating profit before tax excluding Group Services and Other Activities 6.2% 100 90 80 30.6% 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 63.2% 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 UK and Europe Southern Africa Private Client Activities Australia Asset Management Capital Markets Investment Banking Property Activities Before goodwill and non-operating items.
Capital adequacy figures for 2008 are presented in terms of Basel II and for 2007 in terms of Basel I.
These targets were disclosed in May 2004 and are medium to long-term targets.
We aim to achieve them through varying market conditions.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2 Overview of the year Strategic focus Realigning the business model Build non-lending Managed loan growth revenue Manage costs Price risk appropriately Take advantage of opportunities Build customer deposits Third party assets and Proprietary risk capital Year ended advisory of 573.5mn of 860.1mn 31 March 2008 Balance operational 6.7% Net fees and commissions Net interest income of 69.6% risk businesses with 40.0% of total 40.7% of total of 551.3mn 583.4mn financial risk businesses to build a sustainable Other of 22.2mn Principal transactions of 12.7% business model 19.3% of total 276.7mn Core advisory businesses Core banking businesses Excludes income from private equity investments that are required to be consolidated.
Strong base of recurring income Composition of total operating income mn 1 600 1 484 1 400 1 200 1 000 800 600 400 Operating income from associates and Assurance 200 Activities Principal transactions and other operating income Net fee and commission income 0 Net interest income 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 3 Analysis of income Our focus Overview of the year Strategic focus Disciplined about efficiency mn 1 600 CAGR: 15.1% 1 400 1 200 1 000 CAGR: 12.5% 800 600 400 200 Operating income 0 Administrative expenses 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Strategy for growth remains the same Contin Continue to dr ue to driv ive or e organic gro ganic growth wth UK and Eur UK and Europe ope Manage liquidity v Manage liquidity five er ry y carefull carefully y Build non-lending rev Build non-lending reven enue ue Continue to drive organic growth South Africa Build non-lending revenue Continue to drive organic growth Australia Take advantage of opportunities Build non-lending revenue Outlook Experienced management team.
Strict management of risk and liquidity.
Disciplined expense control while investing for growth.
The environment remains challenging but the scale and diversity of our earnings should enable us to navigate through this period of continued uncertainty.
We expect to continue to benefit from the repricing of risk and opportunities arising from dislocated markets around the world.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 4 Operating financial review Operating financial review Operating financial review Geographic and operational diversity support growth in challenging markets Investec has continued to deliver growth in operating profit, during a volatile period for the global financial system.
We benefited from the geographic and operational diversity of our business units and were able to meet four of our five stated financial objectives in a tough trading environment.
South Africa delivered a strong performance, growing operating profit by 26.5% to 340.0 million 2007: 268.7 million, while the UK felt the impact of difficult credit market conditions posting a marginal decline in operating profit to 164.6 million 2007: 167.4 million.
The Australian business was less affected by these conditions: however, activity levels in the second half slowed somewhat resulting in this geography posting a 9.7% increase in operating profit to 33.1 million 2007: 30.1 million.
Adjusted earnings per share before goodwill and non-operating items grew by 6.8% to 56.9 pence, from 53.3 pence, falling short of our financial growth objective of EPS growth to be 10% greater than UK RPI.
The board recommended a final dividend of 13.5 pence per ordinary share, bringing the total dividends per share for the year to 25.0 pence, up from 23.0 pence in 2007.
Balanced portfolio of businesses showing resilience The group's operating profit growth was supported by profitability from all divisions with Private Client Activities, Property Activities and Asset Management continuing to grow.
Private Client Activities Private Client Activities reported growth in operating profit of 9.8% to 193.7 million 2007: 176.5 million.
A more diversified set of revenues, increased distribution capacity and greater penetration across all areas of specialisation underpinned the Private Banking division's performance with operating profit increasing by 7.8% to 166.4 million.
Notable growth in contribution to operating profit came from Growth and Acquisition Finance and Wealth Management, as funds under advice grew 45.4% to 3.7 billion.
Earnings from lending were up in all geographies with the private client core lending book growing by 29.9% to 8.9 billion 2007: 6.9 billion.
The division increased its retail deposit book by 18.8% to 6.6 billion 2007: 5.6 billion, expanding activities and product development in all jurisdictions.
The weaker credit cycle affected the division's performance and impairments increased in all geographies.
The outlook for next year is tempered as uncertainty in the global credit markets persists.
Private Banking expects to consolidate around current levels of profitability, benefiting from the growth strategy and diversification initiatives already implemented.
Private Client Portfolio Management and Stockbroking reported growth in operating profit of 23.8% to 27.3 million 2007: 22.1 million.
The Private Client business in South Africa benefited from the launch of new products, increased volumes and asset swap activity.
Funds under management, expressed in Rands, increased by 6.8% to R112.7 billion 2007: R105.6 billion.
The results of the UK operations include Investec's 47.3% share of the directors' estimate of the post-tax profit of Rensburg Sheppards plc.
Capital Markets Capital Markets' advisory, structuring and asset creation activities continued to perform well with a number of mandates successfully closed in Project Finance, Structured Finance, Equity Finance and Resource Finance.
The division's treasury and trading activities benefited from increased market volatility while core loans and advances increased by 22.6% from 3.1 billion to 3.8 billion.
The majority of the specialisations within Capital Markets performed well, however, operating profit decreased marginally to 115.8 million 2007: 117.3 million following write downs of 48.9 million on our US structured credit investments held within the Principal Finance business.
During the year we acquired the business of Kensington Group plc Kensington, a specialist mortgage provider in the UK, with a view to enhancing our securitisation capabilities in this market.
Difficult market conditions have subsequently impacted the growth potential of this business requiring a realignment of Kensington's business model to maintain a profitable platform and an ability respond quickly as markets change.
The diversified portfolio of activities should continue to support growth in the medium term: however, short term growth is dependent on liquidity and stability returning to the markets.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 6 Operating financial review Operating financial review Investment Banking Investment Banking delivered a mixed performance across geographies reporting an overall decrease of 15.2% in operating profit to 77.3 million 2007: 91.2 million.
The South African operations posted good results, supported by a stable deal pipeline, dividends received, realisations and an increase in the value of underlying investments held within the Principal Investments portfolio.
This portfolio is now well established, delivering a meaningful base of annuity earnings for the division.
Prime Broking and expansion of the international distribution business drove growth in the agency business.
The UK operations were affected by a weaker performance from some of the investments held within the Private Equity and Direct Investments division and a lower level of IPO and fundraising activity.
The Investment Banking business has successfully developed a core level of sustainable earnings supporting performance through varying cycles.
Out performance going forward will depend on market conditions and an ability to take advantage of opportunities presented in the current climate.
Asset Management Investec Asset Management has built a highly scalable platform which continues to deliver steady growth in operating profit.
The division posted an increase in operating profit of 12.8% to 76.8 million 2007: 68.1 million.
This result was driven by an enhanced global distribution reach, strong retail inflows particularly in the first nine months of the year and solid long term investment performance.
Assets under management in Pounds Sterling decreased by 3.8% to 28.8 billion 2007: 29.9 billion assuming a neutral Rand Pounds Sterling exchange rate would have resulted in an increase of 3.1% to 30.8 billion.
The long term track record and growing demand for specialist high performance products support the fundamentals of the Asset Management business while new initiatives in the pipeline should support longer term growth.
Property Activities This division, based mainly in South Africa, had an exceptional year benefiting from an increased contribution from the investment property portfolio.
An operating profit of 36.3 million 2007: 14.1 million represented growth of 156.8% from the prior year.
During the course of the year, we sold our property fund management and administration business to Growthpoint Property Limited Growthpoint in exchange for Growthpoint shares.
Shortly thereafter we disposed of our shareholding in Growthpoint, monetising the proceeds of the transaction and realising a non-operating gain of 72.9 million on the sale of the business which was established over a number of years and primarily supported Growthpoint's property operations.
Following this divestment, the South African Property division remains focused on trading and development opportunities and property fund management listed and unlisted.
Progress has been made in expanding the South African model into the UK and Australia.
Property funds were successfully launched in both geographies and are now well positioned to pursue further opportunities.
Property fundamentals have weakened in all geographies and, while this business is unlikely to repeat the performance seen in the current year, good expertise and a solid portfolio will continue to drive profitability.
Group Services and Other Activities Group Services and Other Activities performed well benefiting from an increase in net interest income which was partially offset by an increase in interest paid on sub-debt and a lower return on certain assets in the South African portfolio.
Strict management of risk and liquidity Disciplined risk and financial management are important elements for sustainable and appropriate growth in the current market environment.
We maintain capital ratios in excess of our targets and continue to focus on maintaining a stock of readily available, high quality liquid assets to support our activities.
We have successfully implemented Basel II on the standardised approach and are comfortably meeting these requirements.
The capital adequacy of Investec plc applying UK Financial Services Authority rules to its capital base is 15.3%.
The capital adequacy of Investec Limited applying South African Reserve Bank rules to its capital base is 13.9%.
Maintaining a broader responsibility In a world of growing complexity and increasing demand for resources, we recognise the responsibility to protect the longevity of our environment.
Our formal philosophy on our sustainability approach, known as Our Business Responsibility, continues to develop within the group and this initiative is now represented by three overlapping key themes - Planet, People and Profits.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 7 Operating financial review Operating financial review Environmental factors received increasing attention as we tackle the challenges posed by climate change and the scarcity of energy resources.
The South African business leveraged off a more established internal initiative in the UK which featured strongly in the City of London Prize, winning the Chairmans Cup.
The nurturing and development of talent and leadership and a focus on diversity underpinned our efforts on the people front.
Externally, our focus on people continued on developing entrepreneurial skills and increasing the available skills pool amongst previously disadvantaged South Africans in the financial, maths and business fields.
Transformation in South Africa remains a business imperative.
While we strive for greater representation within the organisation, we continued our external focus on supporting black entrepreneurs and creating empowerment platforms, winning leading BEE financier awards and receiving recognition for innovation in the BEE financing arena at the Wits Business School Barloworld 2008 Empowerment awards.
We were also awarded sixth position first in the banking sector in the Financial Mail Empowerdex Top Empowerment Companies 2008 award.
The survey was based on the Department of Trade and Industry's Codes of Good Practice.
We recently submitted our third Financial Sector Charter report to the Financial Sector Charter Council, which was audited and included a comprehensive analysis of our positioning in this regard.
We are pleased to have sustained an 'A' rating.
Promoting confidence in our business conduct Our core values of integrity, responsibility and risk consciousness are represented in our culture of sound governance.
We believe that effective communication is fundamental in building stakeholder relationships and, as a board, we are committed to providing meaningful, transparent, timely and accurate financial and non-financial information to all our stakeholders.
In keeping with our commitment to promoting confidence in our conduct as a business and corporate citizen, we apply recognised corporate governance practices of a high standard in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
Credit to our people Talent, leadership and diversity are key to the sustainability of our business.
Today, we have more than 6 000 employees around the world, endeavouring to make our organisation distinctive.
We thank all of them for their contribution to our performance.
Our thanks also go to our board of directors whose leadership and commitment have helped us navigate through a difficult environment.
Donn Jowell retired from our board during the year and we extend our appreciation to him for his invaluable contribution over his 18 year tenure.
We are always mindful that our financial performance is very much dependent on continuing support from our clients and shareholders, and we will continue to remain responsive to their evolving needs.
Pursuing a growth strategy We strive to be a distinctive specialist banking group driven by commitment to our core philosophies and values.
Maintaining a balanced portfolio of businesses, leveraging off our existing platforms and growing our key earnings drivers remain important to achieving our sustainable growth objectives and supporting our growing base of recurring income.
We will continue to seek organic growth across all geographies while building non-lending revenue with a specific emphasis on careful management of capital, risk and liquidity.
Driving a resilient business The global environment remains challenging.
We have established a well diversified and resilient business with an experienced management team and strong risk controls.
This gives us confidence that we will be successful in meeting the challenges, and taking advantage of any opportunities, which may arise in ongoing difficult trading conditions.
We will remain focused on delivering against our key financial objectives.
Hugh Herman Stephen Koseff Bernard Kantor Chairman Chief Executive Officer Managing Director Operating profit as used in the text above refers to operating profit before goodwill, non-operating items and taxation.
The operating financial review provides an overview of our strategic position, performance during the financial year and outlook for the business.
It should be read together with the sections that follow on pages 9 to 88, which elaborate on the aspects highlighted in this review.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 8 Operating financial review Financial and business review Overview This commentary and analysis of our financial results for the year ended 31 March 2008 provides an overview of our financial performance relative to the group's results for the year ended 31 March 2007.
The commentary and analysis are based on our consolidated financial results presented in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS denominated in Pounds Sterling.
The financial information discussed below is based on the period under review, and may not neccessarily reflect the financial condition or results of the operations of the group going forward.
All references in this document referring to Investec or the group relate to the combined DLC group comprising Investec plc and Investec Limited.
Operating profit before goodwill, non-operating items and taxation by geography mn 560 480 400 320 240 160 80 March 2008 0 March 2007 UK & Southern Australia Other Total Europe Africa geographies group Operating profit before goodwill, non-operating items and taxation by division mn 550 470 390 310 230 150 70 March 2008 -10 March 2007 Private Capital Investment Asset Property Group Total Client Markets Banking Management Activities Services group Activities and Other Activities 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 9 Operating financial review Financial and business review Operating environment Key macro-economic data pertaining to the groups three principal geographies: the UK, South Africa and Australia is set out below.
Certain of our operations are conducted by entities outside the UK.
The results of operations and the financial condition of our individual companies are reported in the local currencies in which they are domiciled, including Rands, Australian Dollars, Euros, and US Dollars.
These results will then be translated into Pounds Sterling at the applicable foreign currency exchange rates for inclusion in our combined consolidated financial statements.
In the case of the income statements, the weighted average rate for the relevant period is applied and, in the case of the balance sheets, the relevant closing rate is used.
The table below sets out the movements in relevant exchange rates against Pounds Sterling over the reporting period.
These rates are indicative only and are not necessarily the rates at which the relevant currencies were converted into Pounds Sterling, for the purposes of preparation of our combined consolidated financial statements.
Currency per 1.00 31 March 2008 31 March 2007 Period end Average Period end Average South African Rand 16.17 14.31 14.20 13.38 Australian Dollar 2.18 2.32 2.42 2.47 Euro 1.25 1.42 1.47 1.47 US Dollar 1.99 2.01 1.96 1.90 Source: Datastream Exchange rates between local currencies and Pounds Sterling have fluctuated over the period.
The most significant impact arises from the volatility of the Rand.
The average Rand: Pounds Sterling exchange rate over the year has depreciated by 7.0% and the closing rate has depreciated by 13.9% since 31 March 2007.
The following table provides an analysis of the impact of the Rand depreciation on our reported numbers.
Results as Currency neutral reported at results at 31 March 2008 31 March 2008 Southern African operating profit before tax '000 339 970 363 942 Southern African profit after tax '000 249 681 267 780 Total group operating profit before tax '000 537 671 555 770 Total group adjusted earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders '000 344 695 361 039 Adjusted EPS pence 56.9 59.6 Total assets 'million 34 104 36 189 Total shareholders equity million 2 210 2 307 Before goodwill and non-operating items.
For balance sheet items we have assumed that the Rand: Pound Sterling closing exchange rate has remained neutral since 31 March 2007.
For income statement items we have used the average Rand: Pound Sterling exchange rate that was applied in the prior period, i. e. 13.38.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 10 Operating financial review Financial and business review Business highlights Our operating profit before goodwill, non-operating items and taxation increased by 15.2% from 466.6 million to 537.7 million.
The following tables set out information on operating profit before goodwill, non-operating items and taxation by geography and by division for the period under review.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 11 Operating financial review Private Banking Partner of choice from wealth creation to wealth management Strategy Contribution analysis Client-focused approach.
Provide financial leverage and acumen.
Operating Employees Adjusted profit shareholders Investment bank for private clients.
equity Differentiation - strong risk management discipline.
100% Deliver distinctive value through partnerships and diagnostic approach.
33.5% 33.3% 37.6% Concentrate on growth markets and niche segments.
Key income drivers Interest earned in connection with the bank's lending 66.5% activities.
66.7% 62.4% Fees earned for advisory, banking and lending services.
Income earned in respect of growth and acquisition finance activities.
0% Financial highlights and Private Banking Remainder of Investec group developments The division has benefited from increased distribution Operating profit track record and greater penetration across all areas of specialisation.
mn Core loans and advances up 29.9% to 8.9bn.
160 154.4 Adjusted shareholders' equity up 15.4% to 553mn.
140 Cost to income ratio down to 52.3%.
Operating profit per employee down 11.7% to 77.0th.
120 101.5 100 Outlook 80 The outlook for the forthcoming twelve months is 66.5 60 tempered as the markets navigate through the credit 45.3 crunch and its impact on the broader economy.
This 40 could have a meaningful impact on pipelines and exits 29.6 across all geographies.
21.5 20 14.2 These conditions could present opportunities which the 10.3 business and its clients are well placed to take advantage 0 of.
This, combined with the well diversified earnings 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 streams will mitigate, to some extent, the effects of the broader market environment.
Before goodwill, non-operating items and taxation and excluding Group Services and Other Activities.
Before goodwill, non-operating items and taxation.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 12 Operating financial review Private Client Portfolio Management and Stockbroking Partner of choice from wealth creation to wealth management The business has however, become more resilient to Strategy volatility over time through its annuity based specialist portfolio management and alternative investment services South Africa and is also ideally placed to capitalise on current asset allocation investment rotation trends.
Mission: To be the premier South African portfolio management and stockbroking house.
We differentiate ourselves through: Before goodwill, non-operating items and taxation.
The quality of investment professionals we employ and the Excluding income from associates.
relationships we build with our clients.
A dynamic and focused investment process that provides consistent and superior returns.
Contribution analysis The provision of innovative investment products and services.
Leveraging the outstanding opportunities available to our Operating Employees Adjusted profit shareholders clients within the broader Investec group.
equity 100% 1.8% 5.5% 3.4% UK and Europe We hold a 47.3% interest in Rensburg Sheppards plc.
Key income drivers 96.6% 98.2% Fees levied as a percentage of assets under management.
94.5% Commissions earned for executing transactions for clients.
Performance fees paid for achieving outperformance against benchmark.
Financial highlights and 0% developments Private Client Portfolio Remainder of Investec group Management and Stockbroking Operating profit up 23.8% to 27.3mn.
Funds under management down 8.8% to 19.9bn.
Adjusted shareholders' equity down 31.0% to 29.6mn.
Operating profit track record ROE pre-tax up to 65.5%.
Cost to income ratio down to 45.1%.
Operating profit per employee up 13.6% to 73.4th.
mn 30 Outlook 27.3 25 South Africa 22.1 Notwithstanding a material correction in broad market 20 prices and valuations, there remains a high level of uncertainty among private client investors and traders 16.6 given ongoing global financial market instability.
In addition 15 to tight credit market conditions, consumers and investors 13.8 alike are facing various new and ongoing challenges in the 11.9 11.1 form of a weak Rand, power outages, high interest and 9.3 10 inflation rates and weakening house prices.
These factors 8.4 have, and will most likely continue to erode investor confidence going forward.
As a result, we expect trading, 5 4.4 particularly speculative related revenues, to soften in the near term.
We are relatively confident that, as a result of the diverse 0 business mix and strong annuity income from 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 discretionary funds under management, the negative impact on trading related activity should be partially offset.
Newly implemented client service strategy initiatives are showing early signs of increased market penetration which is expected to gain momentum as the implementation phase matures.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 13 Operating financial review Capital Markets Specialist structuring and advisory business We will continue to invest in the business to ensure Strategy continued growth in the medium term.
The liquidity issues have affected all our markets although Our objectives include: opportunities continue to present themselves.
Continuing to remain a focused and specialised business, Deal volume has slowed in line with market conditions, targeting markets and products where we can be and the growth of the business is dependent on liquidity distinctive and competitive.
and stability returning to the financial markets, including Through a strong disciplined approach centred on clients the return of securitisation in some form.
and delivery of structured products, we seek: These factors will have an impact on some of our - Asset creation opportunities.
businesses in the coming year, but we have a diversified - Product structuring and distribution opportunities.
portfolio of businesses within Capital Markets and the - Trading, hedging and proprietary market opportunities.
pipeline remains good in many of our specialised lending - Advisory mandates.
areas, including Project Finance, Resource Finance and Creating platforms for the origination and distribution of Structured Finance.
internal and third party originated banking assets on a sustainable basis.
Before goodwill, non-operating items and taxation and Developing our market leading position, focusing on excluding Group Services and Other Activities.
growth initiatives and growing a portfolio of quality term Before goodwill, non-operating items and taxation.
Continuing to concentrate on systems, processes and Contribution analysis automation, to ensure maximum competitive advantage and long-term cost savings.
Taking advantage of opportunities to use our specialist Operating Employees Adjusted skills to launch specialist funds.
profit shareholders Investing in the future and targeting growth.
equity 100% 17.5% Key income drivers 23.1% 39.1% Trading and hedging.
82.5% 76.9% Financial highlights and 60.9% developments The results of the division were affected by a poor 0% performance from the US Principle Finance division which has been negatively affected by the credit crisis.
Capital Markets Remainder of Investec group Our advisory, structuring and asset creation activities continued to perform well.
The Australian business continued to build on the Rothschild's platform and introduced a number of new Operating profit track record initiatives.
The results were adversely affected by a poor performance from the US Principal Finance division which mn has been negatively affected by the credit crisis.
120 117.3 The businesses of Kensington now form part of the 115.8 Capital Markets business in the UK.
Core loans and advances up 22.6% to 3.8bn.
Cost to income ratio down to 52.6%.
66.9 Operating profit per employee down 32.3% 127.4th.
We remain a focused business targeting markets where we can be distinctive 20.3 20 and competitive.
In the UK and South Africa we will continue to strive for depth and greater penetration.
In Australia we continue to 0 look for opportunities to broaden our franchise.
Our strategy around specialist funds remains a key focus.
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 14 Operating financial review Investment Banking Integrated business focused on local client delivery with international access Strategy Contribution analysis Our mission is to be an integrated entrepreneurial investment Operating Employees Adjusted banking business.
profit shareholders equity 100% Our primary objectives are to secure our current positionings 5.9% 10.6% and to continue building our operations, with a strong focus 15.5% on generating a higher level of core sustainable earnings.
Key income drivers Fees resulting from the provision of capital raising and 89.4% 94.1% financial advisory work.
Trading and market making activities.
Sale of investments and revaluation of trading investments.
0% Financial highlights and Investment Banking Remainder of Investec group developments Operating profit track record Mixed performance from balanced portfolio of businesses.
However, we have generated a higher level of core sustainable earnings.
mn 110 Operating profit down 15.2% to 77.3mn.
100.9 Adjusted shareholders' equity up 34.5% to 175.9mn.
91.2 90 Cost to income ratio down to 55.7%.
Operating profit per employee down 25.8% to 216.6th.
80 77.3 70 Outlook 60 53.3 50 49.3 Focus continues to be on diversifying earnings streams.
44.2 42.6 A core level of sustainable earnings enables us to perform 40 37.7 through varying cycles.
30 Outperformance going forward depends on market conditions and our ability to take advantage of 20 opportunities.
13.5 10 Before goodwill, non-operating items and taxation and 0 excluding Group Services and Other Activities.
-10 Before goodwill, non-operating items and taxation.
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Direct Investments and Private Equity Agency and Advisory 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 15 Operating financial review Asset Management Investment specialist focused on performance and client needs Strategy Contribution analysis Deliver sound investment performance across all Operating Employees Adjusted propositions.
profit shareholders Provide exceptional client service.
equity 100% Recognise capacity constraints alpha and service, where 7.0% relevant.
16.2% 15.4% Remain at the forefront of product innovation.
Key income drivers 93.0% 84.6% 83.8% Fees levied as a percentage of assets under management.
Asset Management Remainder of Investec group Competitive positioning.
Attraction and retention of talented employees.
Operating profit track record Financial highlights and developments mn 80 76.8 Performance supports our positioning as a specialist provider of high alpha investment product.
70 68.1 We attracted substantial new business flows into our highly scaleable platform.
60 59.4 We successfully widened global sales reach as a result of growing confidence in quality of product range.
40 Total assets under management down 3.8% to 28.8bn.
36.3 Adjusted shareholders' equity down 5.5% to 116.5mn.
24.6 Cost to income ratio up to 64.9%.
20 19.4 19.1 Operating profit per employee down 1.0% to 78.7th.
17.7 16.5 10 Outlook 0 Momentum across the business remains solid.
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 A solid long-term track record and a growing demand for specialist high performance products support the fundamentals of the business.
The liquidity crisis has impacted markets across the globe and there is continued uncertainty as to the impact this will have on the market in the short to medium term.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 16 Operating financial review Property Activities Leading fund and asset manager, seeking selective trading opportunities Strategy Contribution analysis Grow funds under management.
Operating Employees Adjusted Source development and trading opportunities to create profit shareholders value and trade for profit within agreed risk parameters.
equity Develop global property products.
100% 1.2% 1.8% 7.2% Key income drivers Fees levied as a percentage of assets under management.
98.2% 98.8% 92.8% Financial highlights and developments Strong performance of investment property portfolio.
Sale of South African property fund management and 0% administrative business to Growthpoint.
Property Activities Remainder of Investec group Operating profit up 100% to 36.3mn.
Adjusted shareholders' equity up 49.1% to 29.8mn.
Operating profit track record Cost to income ratio down to 34.6%.
Operating profit per employee up 100% to 209.9th.
mn 40 Outlook 36.3 35 UK and Europe We are making progress in expanding our property model 30 in the UK to include property fund management and aligning the strategic focus of the UK business with that of 25 South Africa.
20 18.2 18.6 South Africa 15 14.1 Vacancies are low in all commercial sectors.
Opportunities to enhance value to existing portfolios 10.1 10 remains positive, however, there are continued concerns around skills availability and the increased cost and 6.1 5.2 5.4 5 shortage of building materials and power shortages are 3.2 likely to result in a slowdown in developments.
0 A shortage of prime zoned land has become evident, driving prices to unprecedented levels, particularly 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 industrial land.
The volatility in global markets and property values has resulted in a sharp sell-off in South African property equities.
Assets under management are likely to reflect a reduction as a direct consequence of this.
Markets are expected to start reflecting value and therefore opportunities on the back of weakening prices.
Australia The Australian property market is presenting many interesting development and investment opportunities that reflect good value given the current environment.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 17 Operating financial review Group Services and Other Activities Overview and financial analysis 000 31 March 31 March Variance % 2008 2007 Change International Trade Finance 7 258 5 462 1 796 32.9% UK Traded Endowments 652 109 761 100.0% Assurance Activities 4 116 1 646 2 470 100.0% 12 026 6 999 5 027 71.8% Central Funding 99 075 66 981 32 094 47.9% Central Services 73 388 74 649 1 261 1.7% Operating profit before goodwill, non-operating items and taxation 37 713 669 38 382 100.0% 000 - 31 March 2008 UK & Southern Australia Other Total Europe Africa group International Trade Finance 3 229 4 029 - - 7 258 UK Traded Endowments - 652 - - 652 Assurance Activities - 4 116 - - 4 116 Central Funding 19 992 67 806 11 277 - 99 075 Central Services 34 138 29 658 9 592 - 73 388 Operating profit before goodwill, non-operating items and taxation 10 917 46 945 1 685 - 37 713 000 - 31 March 2007 UK & Southern Australia Other Total Europe Africa group International Trade Finance 2 957 2 505 - - 5 462 UK Traded Endowments - 109 - - 109 Assurance Activities - 1 646 - - 1 646 Central Funding 4 516 63 716 7 400 381 66 981 Central Services 31 408 32 700 10 541 - 74 649 Operating profit before goodwill, non-operating items and taxation 32 967 35 058 3 141 381 669 Developments International Trade Finance Notwithstanding the higher interest rates and a volatile exchange rate, the International Trade Finance business continued to add new clients across the board.
Central Costs We have a policy of allocating costs housed in the centre that are, in effect, performing a function for the divisions of the group.
There are certain costs that are strategic in nature which have not been allocated for pure segmental disclosure, amounting to 73.4 million 2007: 74.6 million.
Central costs are in line with the prior year.
Cental Funding We have a business model of maintaining a central pool of capital with the aim of ensuring that economies of scale with respect to corporate investments, funding and overall management are obtained.
Central Funding increased operating profit before goodwill, non-operating items and taxation by 47.9% to 99.1 million largely as a result of a strong increase in net ineterest income.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 18 Operating financial review Financial statement analysis Salient features of our results in the year under review A number of significant corporate actions have been undertaken during the year under review which have a bearing on our performance and these are highlighted below: The sale of the South African property fund management and property administration business to Growthpoint Properties Limited Growthpoint, as approved by the Competition Tribunal of South Africa on 18 October 2007.
A non-operating exceptional gain of 72.9 million pre-tax was made on the sale of this business.
The purchase consideration was satisfied by the issue of new Growthpoint linked units.
Furthermore, as announced on 6 November 2007, Investec disposed of 152 473 544 Growthpoint linked units representing its entire shareholding in Growthpoint, inter alia, monetising the proceeds on the disposal of the property fund management and property administration business.
Investec Bank Australia Limited acquired Experien Pty Ltd Experien as of 1 October 2007.
Investec plc acquired Kensington Group plc Kensington with effect from 8 August 2007.
The business was acquired for 216.3 million, via the issue of 36.8 million Investec plc shares, with a net asset value at date of acquisition of 100.2 million after a special dividend of 13.7 million.
Kensington now forms part of the Capital Markets business in the UK.
Total operating income Operating income increased by 26.0% to 1 484 million 2007: 1 177 million.
The various components of total operating income are analysed below.
'000 31 March % of total 31 March % of total % 2008 income 2007 income Change Net interest income 583 420 39.3% 343 915 29.2% 69.6% Other income 900 266 60.7% 833 202 70.8% 8.0% Net fee and commission income 551 296 37.2% 521 498 44.3% 5.7% Principal transactions 276 705 18.6% 245 463 20.9% 12.7% Operating income from associates 12 138 0.8% 10 685 0.9% 13.6% Net income on Assurance Activities 10 084 0.7% 5 871 0.5% 77.4% Other operating income 50 043 3.4% 49 685 4.2% 0.7% Total operating income net of insurance claims 1 483 686 100.0% 1 177 117 100.0% 26.0% Net interest income Net interest income represents interest earned net of interest paid in connection with our portfolio of bank accounts, deposits, lending activity and financial structured products.
Net interest income increased by 69.6% to 583.4 million 2007: 343.9 million as a result of growth in advances, the acquisition of Kensington, and a solid performance from the Central Funding division.
Net fee and commission income Net fee and commission income consists of fees receivable for the provision of asset management, investment advice, banking services, retainers, institutional stockbroking commissions and brokerage and similar items that are likely to recur due to the repetitive nature of these activities.
Also included are facility arrangement fees, corporate finance fees and similar items that are transactional in nature and therefore create more erratic income streams, offset by fees and commissions payable which predominantly comprise brokerage payable, banking fees and similar charges.
Net fee and commission income increased by 5.7% to 551.3 million 2007: 521.5 million benefiting from increased transactional activity, particularly in the first half of the year, and higher average assets under management.
Principal transactions Principal transactions comprise: trading income, the marking-to-market of interest rate instruments, equities and other securities such as foreign exchange instruments: profit on the disposal of dealing properties: dividends received and the profit loss on realisation and revaluation of the group's trading investments.
Income from principal transactions increased by 12.7% to 276.7 million 2007: 245.5 million.
The Growth and Acquisition Finance, Property, Private Equity, Direct Investments and Capital Markets trading divisions delivered a strong performance.
This result was negatively impacted by write downs of 48.9 million on US structured credit investments.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 19 Operating financial review Financial statement analysis Operating income from associates Operating income from associates increased by 13.6% to 12.1 million 2007: 10.7 million.
The current year's figure includes Investec's 47.3% share of the directors' estimate of the post-tax profit of Rensburg Sheppards plc for the year ended 31 March 2008.
Other operating income Other operating income amounts to 50 million 2007: 49.7 million.
The operating results of two investments held within the Private Equity portfolio have been consolidated largely into other operating income and administrative expenses.
Impairment losses on loans and advances As a result of the weaker credit cycle we have seen a decline in the performance of the loan portfolio resulting in an increase in impairment losses on loans and advances from 16.5 million to 58.8 million excluding Kensington.
The percentage of gross default loans to core loans and advances has increased from 1.31% to 1.71% since 31 March 2007.
Impairment losses on loans and advances relating to the Kensington business amount to 55.4 million.
Total expenses Total expenses increased by 19.9% to 831.8 million 2007: 694.0 million.
Variable remuneration increased slightly from 205.8 million to 206.7 million.
Other operating expenses excluding variable remuneration increased by 28.1% to 625.1 million largely as a result of an increase in headcount in certain of our businesses in line with growth initiatives, an increase in costs associated with complying with regulatory requirements and the acquisition of Kensington.
Total expenses also includes 35.4 million from the consolidation of two private equity investments.
We achieved our target of less than 65% for operating expenses to total operating income, with the ratio improving from 59.0% to 56.1%.
An impairment of 59.9 million relating to the acquisition of Kensington taking into account the managed reduction in business volumes and the limited activity in the securitisation markets.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 20 Operating financial review Financial statement analysis Taxation The operational effective tax rate decreased from 26.3% to 22.6% as a result of certain income accruing in lower tax jurisdictions and income earned that is either non-taxable or subject to a lower tax rate.
Earnings attributable to minority interests Earnings attributable to minority interests of 28.9 million largely comprise: 4.8 million relating to investments held in the Private Equity division.
23.4 million relating to Euro denominated preferred securities issued by a subsidiary of Investec plc which are reflected on the balance sheet as part of minority interests.
The transaction is hedged and a forex transaction gain arising on the hedge is reflected in operating profit before goodwill with the equal and opposite impact reflected in earnings attributable to minorities.
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders As a result of the foregoing factors, earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders increased from 340.3 million to 391.6 million.
Dividends and earnings per share Information with respect to dividends and earnings per share is provided on pages 90 and 91 and page 108, respectively.
Balance sheet analysis Capital resources and total assets Total shareholders equity including minority interests increased by 21.4% to 2.2 billion 2007: 1.8 billion largely as a result of the issue of 230.7 million of ordinary shares and increased retained earnings.
Net asset value per share increased from 216.0 pence to 260.6 pence and net tangible asset value per share which excludes goodwill and intangible assets increased from 178.6 pence to 215.0 pence.
Return on adjusted average shareholders equity inclusive of compulsorily convertible instruments decreased from 26.1% to 23.6% against a target of greater than 20% Disciplined risk and capital management remain a key focus.
On balance sheet assets have increased by 29.7% to 34.1 billion 2007: 26.3 billion largely as a result of the acquisition of Kensington and the growth of core loans and advances.
The numbers prior to 2005 are reported in terms of UK GAAP, and thereafter in terms of IFRS.
The information for 2008 is in terms of Basel II and prior to that in terms of Basel I.
The dividend for 2000 and 2001 was set in Rand and the dividend thereafter was determined in Pounds Sterling.
The Rand dividend per share for 2000 and 2001 was 620 cents and 750 cents, respectively.
# For comparative purposes historical information has been adjusted for the 5:1 share split that took place on 4 September 2006.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 22 Risk and governance Risk and governance Risk management Philosophy and approach The group recognises that an effective risk management function is fundamental to its business.
Taking international best practice into account, our comprehensive risk management process involves identifying, understanding and managing the risks associated with each of our businesses.
Risk awareness, control and compliance are embedded in our day-to-day activities.
Group Risk Management part of Group Services independently monitors, manages and reports on our risk as mandated by the board of directors through the Board Risk and Capital Committee.
Business units are ultimately responsible for managing risks that arise.
We monitor and control risk exposure through credit, market, liquidity, operational and legal risk reporting teams.
This approach is core to assuming a tolerable risk and reward profile, helping us to pursue growth across our business.
Group Risk Management operates within an integrated geographical and divisional structure, in line with our management approach, ensuring that the appropriate processes are used to address all risks across the group.
Group Risk Management has specialist divisions in the UK, South Africa, Australia and smaller risk divisions in other regions to promote sound risk management practices.
Group Risk Management divisions with international responsibility are locally responsive yet globally aware.
This helps to ensure that all initiatives and businesses operate within our defined risk parameters and objectives.
Group Risk Management continually seeks new ways to enhance its techniques.
Group Risk Management's objectives Group Risk Management's objectives are to: Be the custodian of our risk management culture.
Set, approve and monitor adherence to risk parameters and limits across the group and ensure they are implemented and adhered to consistently.
Aggregate and monitor our exposure across risk classes.
Co-ordinate risk management activities across the organisation, covering all legal entities and jurisdictions.
Give the boards reasonable assurance that the risks we are exposed to are identified and, to the best extent possible, managed and controlled.
Facilitate various risk committees, as mandated by the board.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 24 Risk and governance Risk management An overview of key risks, policies and procedures In our ordinary course of business we face a number of risks that could affect our business operations.
These risks are summarised briefly in the table below.
The sections that follow provide information on a number of these risk areas.
For additional information pertaining to the management and monitoring of these risks, see the references provided.
Key risks Reference Credit and counterparty risk exposes us to losses caused by financial or other problems See pages 25 to 30. experienced by our clients.
Liquidity risk may impair our ability to fund our operations.
Our net interest earnings and net asset value may be adversely affected by interest rate See pages 36 to 38 and risk.
Market conditions and fluctuations could adversely affect our businesses in a number of See pages 31 to 36. ways.
We may be unable to recruit, retain and motivate key personnel.
See our business responsibility website.
Employee misconduct could cause harm that is difficult to detect.
Operational risk may disrupt our business or result in regulatory action.
We may be vulnerable to the failure of our systems and breaches of our security systems.
We may have insufficient capital in the future and may be unable to secure additional See pages 44 to 47. financing when it is required.
The financial services industry in which we operate is intensely competitive.
Legal and regulatory risks are substantial in our businesses.
We may be exposed to pension risk in our UK operations.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may in the future also impair our business operations.
Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risk factors.
This section provides an overview of these types of risks and related developments that occurred during the period under review.
Further detail on our risk management framework, committees and forums as well as our risk manangement and measurement techniques can be found in the Investec groups 2008 annual report.
Note: In the sections that follow the following abbreviations are used on numerous occasions: BRCC - Board Risk and Capital Committee ERRF - Executive Risk Review Forum FSA - Financial Services Authority SARB - South African Reserve Bank APRA - Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority Credit and counterparty risk management Credit and counterparty risk description Credit and counterparty risk is defined as the current and prospective risk to earnings or capital arising from an obligor's typically a client's or counterparty's failure to meet the terms of any obligation to us or otherwise to perform as agreed.
Credit and counterparty risk arises when our funds are extended, committed, invested, or otherwise exposed through actual or implied contractual agreements, whether reflected on or off balance sheet.
Credit and counterparty risk arises primarily from three types of transactions: Lending transactions, giving rise to a direct exposure.
The risk is created that an obligor will be unable or unwilling to repay capital and or interest on advances and loans granted to it.
This category includes bank placements, where we have placed funds with other financial institutions: Issuer risk on financial instruments where payments due from the issuer of a financial instrument will not be received: Trading transactions, giving rise to settlement and replacement risk collectively counterparty risk.
- Settlement risk is the risk that the settlement of a transaction does not take place as expected, with one party effecting required settlements as they fall due but not receiving settlements to which they are entitled.
- Replacement risk is the risk following default by the original counterparty resulting in the contract holder having to enter into a replacement contract with a second counterparty in order to finalise the transaction.
Credit and counterparty risk can manifest as country risk as a result of the geopolictical and transfer risk associated with exposures arising from transactions with borrowers who are resident in a particular foreign country, or dependent on that country's economy.
Credit and counterparty risk may also arise in other ways and it is the role of the various independent credit committees, assisted by Credit Risk Management, to identify situations falling outside these definitions where credit risk may also be present.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 25 Risk and governance Risk management Credit and counterparty risk year in review Basel II As of 1 January 2008 Investec Limited and Investec plc have been reporting to banking regulators in accordance with Basel II under the Standardised Approach for credit risk.
Internally the focus towards the end of the financial year has shifted from compliance to entrenching internal capital processes at all levels in the organisation.
We have leveraged off the changes required in terms of Basel II and taken the opportunity to refine and improve some of our risk management techniques.
UK and Europe The financial year started with a fair amount of activity in the credit markets although margins began to narrow as a result of competitive pressures across the financial services industry.
By September 2007 the credit landscape had changed dramatically as a result of the severe downgrade in the US of sub prime mortgage loans.
As financial institutions took stock of their own balance sheets, market activity and liquidity diminished evidenced by repricing and lower market activity.
Against this backdrop the core loan book grew by 33.0% to 5.3 billion.
This growth has not been at the expense of risk or pricing and our overall philosophy has been to decline transactions rather than compromise price or quality.
We have witnessed an increase in impairments and defaults, notably in the Private Bank.
Residential mortgages have however, performed satisfactory and assets have not shown a worrying trend.
Future performance continues to be monitored against the general economy and data on home prices.
Generally there has been a slowing of asset activity however, client quality and proactive management has ensured that arrears are well controlled.
Gross defaults as a percentage of gross core loans and advances increased from 1.0% to 2.6%.
The UK Capital Markets Principal Finance division has certain exposures to US structured credit investments.
We have taken a market write down of 48.9 million against the US positions largely as a result of rating agency downgrades and US house price performance related to these portfolios.
As at 31 March 2008 the on balance sheet value of the US portfolio is 71 million of which 16 million is dependent on the performance of the US sub-prime markets.
These residual exposures represent less than 0.6% of the UK bank's balance sheet.
During the year Investec plc acquired Kensington.
South Africa Over the past financial year, a number of financial market trends had an impact on the assessment of our credit and counterparty risk.
These trends include: Continued upward pressure on interest rates the prime lending rate increased from 12.5% at 31 March 2007 to 14.5% at 31 March 2008.
High levels of Rand volatility and a depreciation in the Rand against the US Dollar despite the US Dollar losing ground against the Euro.
Highly volatile and high real prices of oil and metals both base and precious.
Volatile equity markets and low or negative real growth of residential and commercial property.
While the South African property market has been more resilient than that of the more established first world economies it has come under pressure towards the end of the year under review.
We are conscious of the potential effect of the combination of a slowdown of growth in the property market both global and local and upward pressure on interest rates.
The high net worth and or stable income streams of our target market clients provides a level of protection from decreases in property values, should a declining trend continue to occur in the future.
Over the past few years as property values increased, these clients built an effective equity buffer, resulting in lower average loan to value ratios which have reduced potential losses on depreciation of values.
For assets put on book during the current year there has been strict adherence to lower loan to value lending.
As at 31 March 2008 average loan to value ratios within the property development book were around 55% to 60% in line with the prior year.
As detailed above, the Rand has devalued against the US Dollar over the past year and has shown higher levels of volatility compared to the prior year.
An increase in client flow, together with greater hedging activity due to higher levels of volatility, has resulted in increased profitability and exposure in the Treasury Foreign Exchange business.
For both interest rate and foreign exchange products rate simulation methodologies are employed which enable us to identify more accurately the level of potential exposures to counterparties for these trading activities.
The methodologies recognise volume of trading, volatility of products traded, deal tenor and credit mitigants in deriving granular counterparty exposure profiles and, in so doing, allow for roll-off risk assessments.
The core loan portfolio increased by 33.5% to R103.6 billion.
The quality of the overall loan portfolio in Southern Africa remains satisfactory with gross default loans as a percentage of total loans of decreasing from 1.3% to 1.0%.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 26 Risk and governance Risk management Australia The core loan portfolio increased by 59.6% to A$2.6 billion, bolstered by the acquisition of Experien and good growth across our business particularly in the first half of the year.
The quality of the overall portfolio remains satisfactory with gross defaults as a percentage of gross core loans and advances decreasing from 2.8% to 1.6%.
However a disciplined approach to risk remains a key area of focus in a weaker trading environment.
Credit and counterparty risk information An analysis of gross credit and counterparty exposures 000 31 March 31 March % change Average for 2008 2007 the year ended 31 March 2008 On-balance sheet exposures 21 661 399 19 058 446 13.7% 20 359 924 Securitisation exposures arising from securitisation principal finance activities - and amounts not reflected in core loans and advances 861 766 177 358 100.0% 519 562 Rated instruments 121 127 36 554 100.0% 78 841 Unrated instruments 291 665 140 804 100.0% 216 235 Other 448 974 - 100.0% 224 487 Debt instruments NCDs, bonds held, debentures 1 594 676 2 241 358 28.9% 1 918 017 Bank placements 2 438 631 2 474 482 1.4% 2 456 557 Sovereign, government placements 1 002 781 491 870 100.0% 747 326 Call facilities non-bank entities 493 257 571 627 13.7% 532 442 Trading exposures positive fair value excluding potential future exposures 2 056 412 2 909 303 29.3% 2 482 858 Other credit exposures 306 109 58 111 100.0% 182 110 Gross core loans and advances to customers before impairments 12 907 767 10 134 337 27.4% 11 521 052 Off-balance sheet exposures 3 374 450 1 937 227 74.2% 2 655 839 Guarantees 435 098 429 684 1.3% 432 391 Contingent liabilities, committed facilities and other 2 939 352 1 507 543 95.0% 2 223 448 Total gross credit and counterparty exposures pre collateral or other credit enhancements 25 035 849 20 995 673 19.2% 23 015 761 Where the average is based on a straight line average.
"Asset quality and impairments Core loans and advances to customers In order to assess and analyse the credit risk associated with loans and advances we believe that certain adjustments should be made to the category ""loans and advances to customers"" as reflected on the IFRS consolidated balance sheet."
We believe that these adjustments are necessary in order to derive a value that reflects actual core lending activities.
In this regard the following methodology has been applied: Loans and advances which have been originated by us and securitised primarily to provide an alternative source of funding are added to loans and advances.
Warehouse funding facilities and warehouse assets arising out of our securitisation and principal finance activities have been deducted.
Calculation of core loans and advances to customers 000 31 March 31 March 2008 2007 Loans and advances to customers per balance sheet before impairments 14 125 466 9 566 871 Less: warehouse facilities and warehouse assets arising out of our Securitisation and Principal Finance activities 2 131 513 36 555 Add: own-originated securitised assets 913 814 604 020 Gross core loans and advances to customers before impairments 12 907 767 10 134 336 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 29 Risk and governance Risk management An analysis of core loans and advances to customers and asset quality by geography As at 31 March '000 UK and Southern Australia Total Europe Africa 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 Gross core loans and advances to customers 5 295 713 3 974 707 6 430 418 5 486 576 1 181 636 673 053 12 907 767 10 134 336 Total impairments 21 854 8 159 23 367 22 023 8 790 9 609 54 011 39 791 Portfolio impairments 2 053 1 540 4 642 5 122 - - 6 695 6 662 Specific impairments 19 801 6 619 18 725 16 901 8 790 9 609 47 316 33 129 Net core loans and advances to customers 5 273 859 3 966 548 6 407 051 5 464 553 1 172 846 663 444 12 853 756 10 094 545 % of total 41.0% 39.3% 49.8% 54.1% 9.1% 6.6% 100.0% 100.0% % change year on year 33.0% - 17.2% - 76.8% - 27.3% - Current loans and advances to customers 4 816 940 3 752 533 6 276 582 5 241 087 1 089 087 612 069 12 182 609 9 605 689 Past due loans and advances to customers 1-60 days and management not concerned 283 445 143 793 73 219 143 866 44 100 21 283 400 764 308 942 Special mention loans and advances to customers 56 165 37 179 18 282 28 825 29 531 20 663 103 978 86 667 Default loans and advances to customers 139 162 41 203 62 335 72 797 18 919 19 038 220 416 133 038 Gross core loans and advances to customers 5 295 712 3 974 708 6 430 418 5 486 575 1 181 637 673 053 12 907 767 10 134 336 Total gross non-current loans and advances to customers actual capital exposure 478 772 222 175 153 836 245 488 92 550 60 984 725 158 528 647 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are past due but not impaired 399 966 197 398 92 187 184 453 75 649 43 524 567 802 425 375 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are impaired 78 807 24 776 61 649 61 036 16 900 17 460 157 356 103 272 Total gross non-current loans and advances to customers actual amount in arrears 15 369 3 757 35 257 49 954 18 394 17 822 69 020 71 533 Bad debts written off during the period - 5 193 20 584 8 674 168 93 20 752 13 960 Gross default loans and advances to customers 139 163 41 203 62 334 72 797 18 919 19 038 220 416 133 038 Collateral and other credit enhancements 114 011 42 032 83 844 75 899 12 362 10 169 210 217 128 100 Specific impairments 19 801 6 619 18 725 16 901 8 790 9 609 47 316 33 129 Net default loans and advances to customers limited to zero 5 351 - - - - - - - Gross defaults as a % of gross core loans and advances to customers 2.6% 1.0% 1.0% 1.3% 1.6% 2.8% 1.7% 1.3% 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 30 Risk and governance Risk management Equity and investment risk in the banking book Equity and investment risk description Equity and investment risk in the banking book arises primarily from the following activities conducted within the group: Investment Banking Principal Investments Private Equity and Direct Investments :We actively seek and select expansion and buy-out investments as principal in unlisted companies.
Investments are selected based on the track record of management, the attractiveness of the industry and the ability to build value for the existing business by implementing an agreed strategy.
In addition, as a result of our local market knowledge and investment banking expertise, we are well positioned to take direct positions in listed shares where we believe that the market is mispricing the value of the underlying portfolio of assets.
These investment positions are carefully researched with the intent to stimulate corporate activity.
In South Africa, we also continue to pursue opportunities to help create and grow black owned and controlled companies.
Lending transactions within the Private Banking and Capital Markets divisions :The manner in which we structure certain transactions results in equity, warrant and profit shares being held, predominantly within unlisted companies.
Property Activities:We source development, investment and trading opportunities to create value and trade for profit within agreed risk parameters.
Central Funding: In South Africa the Central Funding division is the custodian of certain equity and property investments, which have largely arisen from corporate acquisitions made, notably in the early 2000s.
Valuation The table below provides an analysis of income and revaluations recorded with respect to these investments.
Stress test values applied Unlisted investments 15% Listed equities 25% Trading properties 15% Investment properties 5% Warrants, profit shares and other embedded derivatives 35% Stress testing summary Based on the information above we could have a 110.7 million reversal in revenue which assumes a year in which there is a worst case scenario.
This would not cause the group to report a loss but could have a significantly negative impact on earnings for that period.
The probability of all these asset classes in all geographies in which we operate being negatively impacted at the same time is very low, although the probability of listed equities being negatively impacted at the same time is very high.
Traded market risk management Traded market risk description Traded market risk is a measure of potential change in the value of a portfolio of instruments as a result of changes in the financial environment resulting in changes in underlying market risk factors such as interest rates, equity markets, bond markets, commodity markets, exchange rates and volatilities between now and a future point in time.
The Market Risk Management team identifies, quantifies and manages the effects of these potential changes in accordance with Basel ll and policies determined by the board.
Within our trading activities, we act as principal with clients or the market.
Market risk, therefore, exists where we have taken on principal positions, resulting from proprietary trading, market making, arbitrage, underwriting and investments in the commodity, foreign exchange, equity, capital and money markets.
The focus of these businesses is primarily on supporting client activity.
Our philosophy is that proprietary trading should be limited and that trading should be conducted largely to facilitate clients in deal execution.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 32 Risk and governance Risk management VaR Investec plc Investec IBUK IBAL Limited 95% one-day 99% one-day 95% one-day '000 A$'000 R'million 31 March 2008 Commodities 93 - 0.4 Equity derivatives 275 - 4.0 Foreign exchange 23 34 1.8 Interest rates 397 343 0.4 Consolidated 434 374 3.8 High 951 374 10.8 Low 130 59 1.9 Average 385 178 6.2 31 March 2007 Commodities 79 72 0.4 Equity derivatives 124 - 6.5 Foreign exchange 5 30 0.9 Interest rates 77 132 0.6 Consolidated 179 234 7.0 High 539 500 13.9 Low 130 105 2.8 Average 238 279 6.5 The consolidated VaR for each desk and each entity is lower than the sum of the individual VaRs.
This arises from the correlation offset between various asset classes.
Where: IBUK is Investec Bank UK Limited and IBAL is Investec Bank Australia Limited The graphs below show total daily VaR and profit and loss figures for our trading activities over the reporting period.
The values are for the 99% one-day VaR i. e. 99% of the time, the total trading activities will not lose more than the values depicted below.
Based on these graphs, we can gauge the accuracy of the VaR figures.
Investec Bank UK Limited 99% 1-day VaR backtesting GBP 1 500 000 1 000 000 500 000 0 -500 000 -1 000 000 -1 500 000 -2 000 000 pnl VaR There have been seven exceptions i. e. where the loss is greater than the VaR.
This exceeds the expectations at the 99% level.
All exceptions arose on the Fixed Income desk.
These exceptions arose largely in November and December 2007, a particularly volatile period in the markets with extreme moves across most asset classes and in particular interest rates.
The model would expect around 2 to 3 exceptions per annum.
Investec Bank Australia Limited 99% 1-day VaR backtesting A$ 200 000 100 000 0 -100 000 -200 000 -300 000 -400 000 pnl VaR There have been no exceptions over the past year.
Stress testing The table below indicates the potential losses that could arise if the portfolio is stress tested under extreme market conditions 15 standard deviations.
Investec plc Investec IBUK IBAL Limited Using VaR Using VaR Using VaR '000 A$'000 R'million 31 March 2008 Commodities 712 - 3.1 Equity derivatives 2 105 - 30.6 Foreign exchange 176 200 13.8 Interest rates 3 038 1 995 3.1 Consolidated 6 031 2 195 50.6 31 March 2007 Commodities 602 420 2.8 Equity derivatives 946 - 49.8 Foreign exchange 37 175 7.2 Interest rates 587 767 4.9 Consolidated 2 172 1 362 65.0 Where: IBUK is Investec Bank UK Limited and IBAL is Investec Bank Australia Limited 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 35 Risk and governance Risk management Traded market risk year in review In South Africa, we use our internal models for market risk measurement which in effect puts us at the level of the advanced approach for Basel II.
In terms of this model, trading capital is calculated as a function of the 99% 10-day VaR.
Backtesting results and a detailed stress testing pack will be submitted to the regulator on a monthly basis.
In the UK, all desks are currently at the Capital Adequacy CAD l level and will be applying for CAD ll later in the year.
The past year was characterised by strong, albeit volatile, growth in the equity, commodity and bond markets.
These market conditions, coupled with good client flows and product sales, resulted in strong performances from the South African trading operations.
The model of concentrating on client flow proved very successful with the good results being obtained with relatively low risk taking.
In the UK, the bank continues to build its customer base in an attempt to replicate the South African model.
The new structured equity desk has commenced trading and is expected to produce good income through its product suite and hedging strategies for clients.
The fixed income desk, which makes markets in short Sterling, Euribor and Euro Dollar options and futures, ended the year marginally down on the back of difficult market conditions, especially in the second half of the year on the back of the sub-prime crisis and subsequent liquidity squeeze.
The Irish equity trading businesses performed well.
Australia continues to grow although trading activity remains modest with the focus being mainly commodity hedging.
Revenue from trading activities within our Capital Markets division mn 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 31 March 2008 31 March 2007 UK and Europe South Africa Australia Total trading revenue Balance sheet risk management Balance sheet risk description Balance sheet risk management encompasses the financial risks relating to our asset and liability portfolios, comprising market liquidity, funding, concentration and non-trading interest rate risks on balance sheet.
Non-trading interest rate risk description Non-trading interest rate risk is the impact on net interest earnings and sensitivity to economic value, as a result of increases or decreases in interest rates arising from the execution of our core business strategies and the delivery of products and services to our customers.
Sources of banking-related risk exposures include potential adverse effect of volatility and changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads.
These affect the interest rate margin realised between lending income and borrowing costs, when applied to our rate sensitive asset and liability portfolios, which has a direct effect on future net interest income and the economic value of equity.
The mix of interest rate repricing characteristics is influenced by the underlying financial needs of customers.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 36 Risk and governance Risk management Interest rate sensitivity gap The tables below show our non-trading interest rate mismatch.
These exposures affect the interest rate margin realised between lending income and borrowing costs.
The tables below reflect our economic value sensitivity to a 2% parallel shift in interest rates i. e. the numbers represent the change in our net asset value should such a scenario arise.
UK and Europe million GBP USD EUR Other AUD ZAR All GBP GBP 200bp Down 4.3 3.2 3.2 0.8 0.1 - 9.3 200bp Up 4.3 3.2 3.2 0.8 0.1 - 9.3 South Africa million GBP USD EUR Other AUD ZAR All GBP ZAR 200bp Down 326.3 0.2 3.2 - 0.3 0.1 293.2 200bp Up 228.1 0.2 3.6 - 0.3 0.1 194.0 Australia million AUD 200bp Down 3.3 200bp Up 3.3 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 38 Risk and governance Risk management Liquidity risk description Liquidity risk is the risk that we have insufficient capacity to fund increases in assets, or are unable to meet our payment obligations as they fall due, including repaying depositors or maturing wholesale debt.
This risk is inherent in all banking operations and can be impacted by a range of institution-specific and market-wide events.
Risk management has become more sophisticated with liquidity risk being no exception and we consider both funding liquidity risk and market liquidity risk.
Sources of liquidity risk include unforeseen withdrawals of demand deposits, restricted access to new funding with appropriate maturity and interest rate characteristics, inability to liquidate a marketable asset timeously with minimal risk of capital loss, unpredicted customer non-payment of a loan obligation and a sudden increased demand for loans.
Liquidity mismatch The tables that follow show our liquidity mismatch across our core geographies.
With respect to the contractual liquidity mismatch: No assumptions are made, and we record all asset and liabilities with the underlying contractual maturity as determined by the cash flow profile for each deal.
As an integral part of the broader liquidity generation strategy as mentioned above, we maintain a liquidity buffer in the form of unencumbered, cash, high quality liquid assets and near cash as a buffer against both expected and unexpected cash flows.
As the actual contractual profile of this asset class is of little consequence, we have: - Set the time horizon to one month to monetise our cash and near cash portfolio of available for salediscretionary treasury assets, where there are deep secondary markets for this elective asset class.
- Set the time horizon to on demand to monetise our statutory liquid assets for which liquidity is guaranteed by the central bank.
- Reported the contractual profile by way of a note to the tables.
With respect to the behavioural liquidity mismatch: The new funding we would require under normal business circumstances is shown in the behavioural mismatch.
To this end, behavioural profiling is applied to liabilities with an indeterminable maturity, as the contractual repayments of many customer accounts are on demand or at short notice but expected cash flows vary significantly from contractual maturity.
In addition, re-investment behaviour, with profile and attrition based on history, is applied to term deposits in the normal course of business.
The beginning of the year started with continued spread compression in credit markets to historically tight levels.
Asset growth was strong and all forms of funding were freely available.
There was extremely active uptake in capital markets for Financial Institution paper.
July saw the beginning of the dramatic unwinding of the excessive levels of gearing that characterised the last five years of activity in international financial markets.
In the UK, Interbank lending ceased, overnight rates rose dramatically over official rates and secured lending through non-gilt repo markets ended.
All capital markets activities came to a halt.
Banks that had underwritten leveraged buy-out debt could not sell down, forcing them to fund on-balance sheet.
Off-balance sheet conduits were unable to roll maturing commercial paper funding, forcing distressed selling of assets and draw-down of bank lines.
In this environment, banks in general were unable to issue paper in the capital markets.
In addition, funding through securitisation all but dried up.
Although financial markets continue to deteriorate in certain respects, some stability has returned to the interbank market: deposits have rolled over showing evidence of a certain measure of calm having returned to the market.
The credit markets dislocation has seen a fundamental change to issuance in the domestic Australian debt capital markets.
This has most directly affected structured investment vehicles relying on asset backed commercial paper and term debt securities funding.
The domestic major banks have successfully undertaken senior debt issues, albeit at dramatically wider credit spreads.
Investec Bank Australia Limited IBAL has continued to maintain a strong liquidity position, with consistent funding flow from wholesale relationships particularly in the middle market client base.
IBAL's Private Bank has been a beneficiary of the current environment with a significant inflow of funds from private clients over this period.
On the Rand funding side, Investec Bank Limited IBL experienced strong organic growth in balance sheet, deposit and surplus cash valuer.
During the financial year the balance sheet benefited from our books being well positioned for multiple rate hikes in the Rand and several rate cuts in the US Dollar.
However, the key feature of the latter part of the year was the slow impact of the global credit crisis on local markets increasing the cost of Rand deposits across the board.
In response to the global liquidity crunch IBL instituted a policy of holding higher levels of cash and near cash.
Markets remain challenging and it is anticipated that these conditions will remain in force at least until the end of 2008.
We successfully embarked on several term debt funding initiatives.
This allowed us to maintain liquidity well above internal and external liquidity targets, while growing our profitable lending portfolios.
Decisions concerning timing of issuance and the tenor of liabilities are based upon relative costs, general market conditions, prospective views of organic balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity profile.
Investec Bank UK Limited: -A e240 million 3-year Schuldschein issue was completed in October 2007 at LIBOR 0.25% and a market related upfront arrangement fee.
- During the period of market dislocation we successfully arranged substantial bi-lateral facilities through long-standing historical relationships maintained with other banks.
- In addition we were able to arrange a one year syndicated loan in an amount of e300 million, to start in April 2008 at the lower end of market terms.
Investec Bank Australia Limited: - A new Debt Issuance Programme was established with a programme capacity of A$2.5 billion.
An inaugural debt issuance by IBAL of A$250 million of floating rate medium term notes comprising A$100m of 3 year MTNs at BBSW 0.35% and A$150m of 5year MTNs at BBSW 0.45% was successfully completed in June, prior to the dislocation in credit markets.
Operational risk management Operational risk definition Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss or earnings volatility arising from failed or inadequate internal processes, people and technology, or from external events.
We recognise operational risk as a significant risk category, and strive to manage this within acceptable levels through the promotion of sound operational risk management practices.
Developments As part of our Basel II programme, approval, where required, was obtained from regulators for the implementation of the Standardised Approach.
The process included engagements with regulators and assessments of our operational risk practices against the regulations to ensure compliance with the requirements.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 43 Risk and governance Risk management Operational risk management practices continue to be addressed and reported.
Our processes provide for continuous development and monitoring to ensure that our framework and practices are appropriate, adequate, in line with regulatory requirements and sufficiently embedded in our business.
We continue to develop and enhance our framework, policies and practices in line with developing practice and regulations.
Industry developments are monitored through active participation in industry forums.
We are evaluating measurement approaches in order to enhance the management of operational risk.
Reputational and strategic risk Reputational risk is the risk caused by damage to an organisation's reputation, name or brand.
Such damage may result from a breakdown of trust, confidence or business relationships.
Reputational risk may also arise as a result of other risks manifesting and not being mitigated.
One of the largest single potential causes of reputational risk is strategic risk.
Strategic risk is the risk of unexpected losses arising as a result of incorrect decisions taken by senior management or an internal event having an adverse effect on the perception of Investec by its clients and customers.
We have various policies and practices to mitigate reputational and strategic risk, including strong values that are regularly and proactively reinforced.
We also subscribe to sound corporate governance practices, which require that activities, processes and decisions are based on carefully considered principles.
We are aware of the impact of practices that may result in a breakdown of trust and confidence in the organisation.
We regularly reinforce our policies and practices through transparent communication, accurate reporting, continuous group culture and values assessment, internal audit and regulatory compliance review, and risk management practices.
Legal risk management Legal risk is the risk of loss resulting from any of our rights not being fully enforceable or from our obligations not being properly performed.
This includes our rights and obligations under contracts entered into with counterparties.
Such risk is especially applicable where the counterparty defaults and the relevant documentation may not give rise to the rights and remedies anticipated when the transaction was entered.
A Legal Risk Forum is constituted in each significant legal entity within the group.
Each forum meets at least half-yearly and more frequently where business needs dictate, and is chaired by the Global Head of Legal Risk or an appointed deputy.
Minutes of the meetings are circulated to the Chief Executive Officer of each legal entity.
Pension risk Pension risk arises from defined benefit schemes, where Investec plc is expected to provide funds to reduce any deficit in the schemes.
There are two defined benefit schemes within Investec plc and both are closed to new business.
Pension risk could arise if the net present value of future cash outflows is greater than the current value of the asset pool set aside to cover those payments.
Primary causes of any deficit include: A mismatch in the duration of the assets relative to the liabilities.
Increased life expectancy of individuals leading to increased liabilities.
Investec plc monitors the position of the funds closely, assessing potential adverse movements in the schemes and ensuring that the risk to our capital does not exceed board approved levels.
Capital management and allocation Our capital management approach is driven by our strategy and associated risk appetite, taking into account the regulatory and economic environment applicable to the group.
We seek to balance our capital consumption to ensure that we are prudently capitalised to meet our risks, but are also able to optimise shareholder returns.
Discipline in selection of markets, deals and investments are key to the processes by which we operate to ensure that returns are commensurate with the risk taken.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 44 Risk and governance Risk management Our approach to capital is tied to a group-wide discipline that links capital allocation and structuring, performance measurement, investment decisions, risk management and capital-based incentive compensation into one integrated framework.
Capital is managed on both a regulatory and an internal economic capital basis.
Philosophy and approach The Investec group comprises Investec plc and its subsidiaries and Investec Limited and its subsidiaries.
The DLC structure considers the two groups as independent entities from a credit perspective and hence capital is managed on a separate basis.
The BRCC via the Investec DLC Capital Committee is a board sub-committee with ultimate responsibility for the capital sufficiency for both Investec plc and Investec Limited.
The legal and regulatory treatment of capital is independent of existing shareholder arrangements that are in place to ensure that shareholders have common economic and voting interests as if Investec plc and Invested Limited were a single unified enterprise.
Investec plc is regulated by the UK FSA and Investec Limited is regulated by the SARB.
Consequently, the management of capital is undertaken on a silo basis at the lowest level but considered in aggregate from a group perspective.
Regardless of the statutory entity, the objectives of capital management are to: Support a target level of financial strength aligned with a long-term rating of at least A: Maintain sufficient capital to satisfy the board's risk appetite across all risks faced by the group: Maintain sufficient capital to meet regulatory requirements: Support our growth strategy: Allow the exploration of acquisition opportunities where such opportunities are consistent with our strategy and risk appetite: Provide protection to depositors against losses arising from risks inherent in the business: Provide sufficient capital surplus to ensure that the group is able to retain its going concern basis under relatively severe operating conditions and support growth in assets.
In order to achieve these objectives, we have adopted the following approach to the integration of risk and capital management: Risk Risk Risk modelling Internal Pricing and assessment identification and Captial performance quantification measurement Ongoing risk management Managed by each Managed by Group Risk policy Capital Group Business Unit, and Capital Management Managed by and appetite management strategy Group Risk with oversight by each Business departments with DLC Captial and planning Unit with oversight by Committee oversight by ERRF BRCC BRCC Group Risk Risk reporting Risk specific Macro and business scenario economic as usual risk testing scenario testing management 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 45 Risk and governance Risk management Capital structure As at 31 March 2008 Investec plc Investec Limited '000 R'000 Regulatory capital Tier 1 Share capital 131 148 Share premium 651 023 3 918 743 Non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating preference shares 129 558 3 277 549 Retained income 299 345 6 507 782 Treasury shares 16 511 - Other reserves 89 522 47 996 Minority interests in subsidiaries 159 420 - Less: impairments goodwill and other deductions 376 675 642 022 935 813 13 110 196 Tier 2 Aggregate amount 735 462 5 289 667 Less: deductions 69 015 203 912 666 447 5 085 755 Tier 3 Aggregate amount 18 087 - Less: deductions - - 18 087 - Other deductions from Tier 1 and Tier 2 66 838 - Total eligible capital 1 553 509 18 195 951 Capital requirements As at 31 March 2008 Investec plc Investec Limited Capital Risk-weighted Capital Risk-weighted requirements assets requirements assets '000 '000 R'000 R'000 Credit risk - standardised approach 675 140 8 439 250 10 579 149 111 359 465 Equity risk - standardised approach 11 363 142 038 360 829 3 798 204 Market risk 29 717 371 463 194 398 2 046 288 Capital requirements for portfolios subject to internal models approach - Interest rate 20 380 254 749 9 011 94 850 - Foreign exchange 1 041 13 013 17 491 184 113 - Commodities 2 657 33 213 3 432 36 125 - Equities 5 639 70 488 164 464 1 731 200 Operational risk - standardised approach 96 749 1 209 363 1 260 648 13 269 977 Total 812 969 10 162 114 12 395 024 130 473 934 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 46 Risk and governance Risk management Capital adequacy At 31 March 2008 Investec plc IBUK IBAL Investec IBL million million A$million Limited Rmillion Rmillion Primary capital Tier 1 1 005 894 637 13 752 12 628 Other capital Tier 2 and 3 754 620 118 5 290 5 006 1 759 1 514 755 19 042 17 634 Less:impairments 205 248 213 846 607 Net qualifying capital 1 554 1 266 542 18 196 17 027 Risk-weighted assets banking and trading 10 162 8 687 2 933 130 474 118 792 Credit risk 8 439 7 174 2 509 111 360 105 593 Equity risk 142 138 102 3 798 3 645 Market risk 372 371 18 2 046 605 Operational risk 1 209 1 004 304 13 270 8 949 Capital adequacy ratio 15.3% 14.6% 18.5% 13.9% 14.3% Tier 1 ratio 9.2% 9.1% 15.3% 10.0% 10.3% Capital adequacy ratio - pre operational risk 17.4% 16.5% 20.6% 15.5% 15.5% Tier 1 ratio - pre operational risk 10.5% 10.3% 17.1% 11.2% 11.1% Where: IBUK is Investec Bank UK Limited: IBAL is Investec Bank Australia Limited and IBL is Investec Bank Limited Basel I vs Basel II The most material difference in calculating our minimum capital requirements under Basel II vs Basel I regimes arises from capital to be held with respect to operational risk.
There are a number of other adjustments which result in higher or lower adjustments to capital, but these are relatively immaterial in nature and substantially net off against one another.
However, under the principles of Basel II, Pillar 2, a significant difference between the two regimes has been introduced.
Pillar 2 has led to the introduction and use of the Internal Capital framework.
The Internal Capital framework as discussed in the capital management section seeks to utilise the identification and quantification of all key risks as described in this section to internally derive capital requirements across the group.
This has led to a regime where capital is increasingly allocated on a risk basis rather than utilising regulatory capital as a proxy for risk.
Internal Audit Internal Audit provides objective and independent assurance to management and the board that group processes are adequate for identifying the significant risks to which we are exposed and that the control environment is effective enough to manage these risks.
Internal Audit recommends enhancements to risk management, control and governance processes where weaknesses are identified.
Compliance Compliance risk is the risk that we fail to comply with the letter and spirit of all statutes, regulations, supervisory requirements and industry codes of conduct which apply to our businesses.
We seek to bring the highest standard of compliance best practice to all our jurisdictions.
In keeping with our core values, we also endeavour to comply with the highest professional standards of integrity and behaviour, which builds trust.
We are subject to extensive supervisory and regulatory governance in the countries in which we operate.
The SARB is our lead regulator.
Significant business developments in any of our operations must be approved by the Reserve Bank as well as by the business's home country regulatory authority.
UK and Europe - year in review Regulatory activity in the UK and Europe continued to be focused on the implementation of various European directives and initiatives of the UK's FSA.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 47 Risk and governance Risk management These included: More principles based regulation.
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID.
Management and control of inside information.
Anti-money laundering AML and financial crime.
More principles based regulation We continue to monitor the FSA's Better Regulation Action Plan, which aims to improve future regulation in the UK.
This plan is underpinned by the FSA's objective to become a more principles based regulator by moving the balance of financial services regulation towards high-level principles rather than detailed rules and guidance.
Our Compliance function is closely involved with the development of more principles based regulation.
The business has dealt effectively with practical issues arising out of the principles based initiatives to date.
These include TCF, the deletion of the Money Laundering sourcebook in favour of high level principles and proposals to delete the Training and Competence sourcebook.
MiFID MiFID came into force across Europe on 1 November 2007 and aims to create a single set of rules for certain investment services and activities for a defined list of financial instruments MiFID business.
Where firms carry on MiFID business, a number of new requirements have come into force in relation to matters such as conflicts of interest, outsourcing, client categorisation, inducements, best execution and transaction reporting.
We ran a cross-divisional project to implement MiFID across our European jurisdictions.
TCF At the forefront of the more principles based regulation agenda has been an initiative to ensure that the principle of TCF is embedded in an organisation's culture.
In addition, the FSA requires organisations to have practical arrangements in place that measure and demonstrate that customers are consistently being treated fairly.
Principle 6 states that A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FSA's approach is focused on the culture that an organisation has and, for us, the TCF agenda is closely aligned to our core values.
We have met the March 2008 deadline which required authorised firms to have management information in place to test whether they are delivering against the TCF consumer outcomes.
The next step is to ensure that by the end of December 2008 we are able to prove that this management information demonstrates that we are consistently treating customers fairly.
Management and control of inside information Since 2005 one of the FSA's key objectives has been the prevention and combating of what they call institutional market abuse, i. e. the exploitation of information that financial institutions legitimately receive for illegitimate purposes.
In mid-2007 the FSA published a document outlining good practice guidelines in relation to the management and control of inside information which it expected financial institutions to adopt.
We subsequently conducted a group-wide review of our flows of inside information and the controls we have to manage them.
Our work included enhancing policies and procedures and an extensive training and awareness programme for employees.
AML and financial crime There has been considerable focus on implementing new directive and legislative requirements related to anti-money laundering and financial crime across the European businesses.
On 15 December 2007 the UK adopted the 3rd EU Money Laundering Directive through the implementation of the Money Laundering Regulations 2007.
The UK bank's policies and procedures have been reviewed for compliance with the new regulations.
On the same date the EU Wire Transfer Directive came into force requiring originator names, address details and account numbers to be quoted on incoming and outgoing payments.
We have implemented procedures to ensure compliance with this directive.
On 15 December 2007 Guernsey introduced the amended Criminal Justice Regulations and Money Laundering handbook.
On 4 February 2008 Jersey introduced the new Money Laundering Order 2008 and a new Money Laundering Handbook and on 19 February 2008 they also introduced new Proceeds of Crime Regulations.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 48 Risk and governance Risk management South Africa - year in review Anti-money laundering The implementation of the Financial Intelligence Centre Act FICA and Protection of Constitutional Democracy against Terrorist and Related Activities is ongoing.
In response to international best practice standards of anti-money laundering and anti-terror financing and in particular to Guidance Note 3 issued by the Financial Intelligence Centre, which permits an accountable institution to adopt a risk based approach, we have developed and implemented a centralised AML system that has the capability to: Risk weight clients according to the money laundering and or terror financing risks they may potentially pose.
Compare client lists to databases of adverse client information issued by regulatory authorities which includes persons named on the United Nations lists.
Administer in a central repository the ongoing maintenance of a client's identification and verification and risk weighting.
A further enhancement to the AML system to more adequately address the legislative requirements of suspicious activity reporting is planned for implementation by the end of 2008.
These systematic developments are supported by an enhanced Group AntiMoney Laundering and Anti-Terror Financing Policy which incorporates a Client Acceptance Policy to accommodate this risk weighting and the screening of clients.
Consumer law The National Credit Act was successfully implemented during June 2007 in affected entities which have been registered as credit providers.
The Act imposes strict requirements on credit providers including affordability assessments, disclosure to consumers, advertising and marketing practices, complaints, pricing and reporting to the National Credit Regulator.
The past year saw further regulatory reform pertaining to the financial services industry, particularly relating to legislation aimed at consumer protection in the form of progress made towards the Consumer Protection Bill.
The Bill aims to provide a legal framework for consumer protection by attempting to codify the common law with specific regard to the rights of consumers and the obligations of those providing services and products to them.
The developments are being closely monitored to assess the impact on affected entities.
Conflicts of interest Conflicts of interest are inherent in our business.
We are not required to avoid conflicts but rather to ensure that they are managed appropriately.
Accordingly we have engaged in a group-wide initiative for identifying and managing the conflicts of interest that exist across our various businesses.
Following the implementation of an enhanced framework in the United Kingdom, this initiative has commenced in South Africa with a project to identify all conflicts of interest within and between the South African areas of business as well as a review of all existing mitigations and controls.
Mitigations and controls will be in line with international best practice in this area, including policies and procedures, information flow management, disclosure and declining to act.
Risk based monitoring A project was initiated in October 2006 to align the existing compliance monitoring process with the operational risk processes.
The project entails the adoption of the Enterprise Risk Assessor risk based methodology used by the Operational Risk division.
The project is due for completion by 30 September 2008.
The first phase of the project involved a comprehensive analysis of all acts, regulations, guidance notes and codes of conduct affecting each of the operating units, the performance of a risk assessment of each underlying regulatory risk and the identification and recording of all controls the operating units have adopted to mitigate such risks.
The first phase of the project was completed in March 2008.
The second phase of the project involves the review of compliance monitoring programmes used within the operating units and the design and migration of a fully comprehensive risk based monitoring programme onto the Enterprise Risk Assessor software.
The second phase of the project is due for completion by 30 September 2008.
Mauritius - year in review There were no major compliance developments in the region during the period under review.
The Mauritian entities strongly align themselves with the policies and procedures adopted by the broader group.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 49 Risk and governance Risk management Australia - year in review The main areas of regulatory focus were: Anti-Money Laundering Counter Terrorism Financing Act 2006 AML CTF Act This year has seen the continued roll out of anti-money laundering counter terrorism financing procedures as a number of AML obligations came into effect on 12 December 2007.
The AML CTF Act, which is being implemented in stages, includes obligations such as customer identification and verification, record-keeping and the establishment and maintenance of an AML CTF programme.
Part A of the programme outlines the framework which we use to identify, mitigate and manage the risks which we may reasonably face should the provision of our products and services, whether inadvertently or otherwise, involve or facilitate money laundering or financing of terrorism.
Part B, encompasses our ongoing customer due diligence procedures and takes into account the risk profiles and types of clients we deal with.
Licensing Various Investec Australian Financial Services Licenses have been amended to reflect recent changes in our activities.
All jurisdictions - Basel II capital requirements The new Basel Accord was implemented and came into effect on 1 January 2008.
As discussed in the various risk sections we have implemented these requirements across the group.
Credit ratings In general, we were assigned strong ratings for credit quality, capacity for timely repayment and financial strength.
In terms of our Dual Listed Companies structure, Investec plc and Investec Limited are treated separately from a credit point of view.
As a result, the rating agencies have assigned ratings to the significant banking entities within the group, namely Investec Bank UK Limited, Investec Bank Limited and Investec Bank Australia Limited.
Certain rating agencies have assigned ratings to the holding companies, namely, Investec plc and Investec Limited.
Further information on our credit ratings can be found in the Investec groups 2008 annual report and our website.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 50 Risk and governance Corporate governance Introduction We are committed to promoting sustainable stakeholder confidence in our conduct as a business and as a corporate citizen.
While the board oversees the overall process and structure of corporate governance, each business area and every employee worldwide is responsible for acting in accordance with good corporate governance practices.
In formulating our governance framework, we apply recognised corporate governance practices pragmatically so as to: Identify and mitigate significant risks, including reputational risk.
Exercise effective review and monitoring of our activities.
Promote informed and sound decision making.
Enable effectiveness, efficiency, responsibility and accountability.
Enhance the capital market's perception of us.
Facilitate legal and regulatory compliance.
Secure trust and confidence of all stakeholders.
Protect our brand and reputation.
Ensure sustainable business practices, including social and environmental activities.
Disclose the necessary group information to enable all stakeholders to make a meaningful analysis of our financial position and actions.
Our values and philosophies are the framework against which we measure behaviour and practices so as to assess the characteristics of good governance.
Our values require that directors and employees behave with integrity, displaying consistent and uncompromising moral strength and conduct in order to promote trust.
Sound corporate governance is implicit in our values, culture, processes, functions and organisational structure.
Structures are designed to ensure that the values remain embedded in all businesses and processes.
We continually refine these structures and a written Statement of Values serves as our Code of Ethics.
We operate under a Dual Listed Company DLC structure, and we adhere to the corporate governance regulations of the UK and South Africa.
All international business units operate in accordance with the corporate governance recommendations of their jurisdictions, but with clear reference at all times to group values and culture.
This section provides a summary of our corporate governance philosophy, practices and key developments for the year ended 31 March 2008.
A more detailed review is provided in the Investec groups 2008 annual report.
Board of directors The board is accountable for the performance and affairs of Investec.
It provides entrepreneurial leadership for the company within a framework of prudent and effective controls which allows risk to be assessed and managed.
Specifically, it is responsible for the adoption of strategic plans, monitoring of operational performance and management, ensuring an effective risk management strategy, compliance with applicable legislation, upholding corporate governance standards and succession.
The board meets its objectives by reviewing and guiding corporate strategy, setting the company's values and standards, approving key policies and objectives, ensuring that obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met, understanding the key risks we face, determining our risk tolerance and approving and reviewing the processes in operation to mitigate risk from materialising, including the approval of the terms of reference of key supporting board committees.
The board has defined the limits of delegated authority.
It is responsible for assessing and managing risk policies and philosophies: ensuring appropriate internal controls: overseeing major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals: approving the establishment of businesses: and approving the introduction of new products and services.
In fulfilling its responsibilities, the board is supported by management in implementing the plans and strategies approved by the board.
The board monitors and evaluates management's progress on an ongoing basis.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 51 Risk and governance Corporate governance Furthermore, the board, directly or through its sub-committees: Assesses the quantitative and qualitative aspects of our performance through a comprehensive system of financial and nonfinancial monitoring involving an annual budget process, detailed monthly reporting, regular review of forecasts and regular management strategic and operational updates.
Approves annual budgets, capital projections and business plans.
Monitors our compliance with relevant laws, regulations and codes of business practice.
Monitors our communication with all stakeholders.
Identifies and monitors key risk areas and key performance indicators.
Reviews processes and procedures to ensure the effectiveness of our internal systems of control.
Ensures we adopt sustainable business practices, including our social and environmental activities.
Evaluates the performance of senior management and considers succession planning.
The board seeks to exercise leadership, integrity and judgement in pursuit of strategic goals and objectives, to achieve long-term sustainable growth and prosperity.
The combined boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited met six times during the year.
Three board meetings were held in the UK and three in South Africa, in line with the requirements of our DLC structure.
Furthermore, the boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited held one additional meeting each in the UK and South Africa respectively.
All directors are subject to re-election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Thereafter, in accordance with the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited, at least one third of the directors will retire at each Annual General Meeting.
In compliance with the London Combined Code A.
7.2. non-executive directors who have served on the board for more than nine years from the date of their first election are re-elected annually.
Retiring directors are subject to an assessment of their performance by the Chairman and Nominations and Directors Affairs Committee before nomination for re-election and re-appointment.
Biographical details of the directors standing for re-election at the 2008 Annual General Meeting are on pages 81 to 84.
Date of appointment Independent Last Retiring Investec Investec elected and seeking plc Limited re-election in 2008 Executive directors S Koseff Chief Executive Officer 26 Jun 02 06 Oct 86 - 2006 No B Kantor Managing Director 26 Jun 02 08 Jun 87 - 2006 Yes GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director 03 Jul 02 03 Jul 02 - 2007 No A Tapnack 01 Jul 02 01 Jul 02 - 2007 No Non-executive directors HS Herman Chairman 26 Jun 02 01 Jan 94 No 2007 Yes SE Abrahams 26 Jun 02 21 Oct 96 Yes 2007 Yes GFO Alford 26 Jun 02 26 Jun 02 Yes 2007 No CA Carolus 18 Mar 05 18 Mar 05 Yes 2005 Yes H Fukuda OBE 21 Jul 03 21 Jul 03 Yes 2005 Yes GMT Howe 21 Jul 03 21 Jul 03 Yes 2005 Yes IR Kantor 26 Jun 02 30 Jul 80 No 2007 Yes Sir C Keswick Senior Independent Director 26 Jun 02 26 Jun 02 Yes 2005 Yes MP Malungani 26 Jun 02 26 Jun 02 No 2005 Yes Sir D Prosser 23 Mar 06 23 Mar 06 Yes 2006 No PRS Thomas 26 Jun 02 29 Jun 81 Yes 2007 Yes F Titi 30 Jan 04 30 Jan 04 No 2007 No Donn Jowell resigned from the boards with effect 30 September 2007.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 52 Risk and governance Corporate governance The board is supported by key committees, as follows: DLC Audit Committee Investec plc Audit Committee - Audit Sub-Committees - Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums Investec Limited Audit Committee - Audit Sub-Committees - Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums Board Risk and Capital Committee - DLC Capital Committee - Executive Risk Review Forum - Various specialist risk committees and forums DLC Nomination and Directors Affairs Committee DLC Remuneration Committee These committees have specific terms of reference, appropriately skilled members, independent non-executive director membership, senior management participation and access to specialist advice when necessary.
Year in review Board statement The board, management and employees of Investec are in full support of and committed to complying with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA, the JSE Limited JSE Listings Requirements, regulatory requirements in the countries in which we operate, the London Combined Code 2006 and the King Code of Corporate Practices and Conduct King II, whereby all stakeholders are assured that we are being managed ethically and in compliance with the latest legislation, regulations and best practices.
The board is of the opinion that Investec has complied with the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice contained in section 1 of the London Combined Code 2006 as well as King II, during the period under review, except as outlined below.
3.1. and King II - Independence of the Chairman The Chairman, Hugh Herman, is not considered to be independent.
At the time of his appointment, his duties included promoting the group and introducing clients but excluded day-to-day executive decisions.
His role was full time and he sat on certain management forums.
He was also included in various management incentive and share ownership schemes.
For these reasons, he is not considered by the board to be independent in accordance with the London Combined Code and King II.
However, since 2005 Hugh has distanced himself from executive responsibilities.
Developments Internal control We have adopted the Turnbull guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales in 1999 and revised in 2005, and continued to embed the principles throughout the group during the year under review.
Cognisance has also been taken of the King ll requirements in South Africa.
Communication and stakeholder relations During the year, the Chief Executive Officer, the group Managing Director and other members of executive management continued to meet with shareholders in the UK, Europe, the USA and South Africa, to understand their issues and concerns and discuss matters relating to our activities and performance.
No new material or price sensitive information is provided at such meetings.
Non-executive directors and the Senior Independent Director are available and will attend meetings if requested and, as mentioned above, feedback on any issues or concerns raised by investors is provided to the board.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 53 Risk and governance Corporate governance Governance framework Our governance framework can be depicted as follows: Investec plc and Investec Limited - Board of Directors DLC Nomination and Directors Affairs Audit Committees Board Risk and Capital Committee Committee Audit DLC Capital Executive Risk DLC Remuneration Committee Sub-Committees Committee Review Forum Audit and Compliance Group Credit Committees Implementation Forums Group Investment Committee Group Deal Forum Group Market Risk Forum Asset and Liability Committees Operational Risk Committees Forums Group Legal Risk Forum Internal Audit Compliance Group Risk Management Stakeholders employees, shareholders, government, regulatory bodies, clients, suppliers, communities 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 54 Remuneration report Overview of the year Remuneration report Statement from the Chairman of the Board Remuneration Committee - an overview The remuneration report was prepared by the Remuneration Committee and approved by the board.
The board believes that a properly constituted and effective remuneration committee is key to improving the link between directors' pay and performance, with the ultimate aim of enhancing our competitiveness.
The primary purpose of the committee is to determine our policy on the remuneration of executive directors and the remuneration package for each executive director.
The committee is made up of non-executive directors, and executive directors are not involved in determining their own remuneration packages.
This report describes our remuneration policy which has remained unchanged and directors' remuneration for the 2008 financial year.
During the period, in addition to its regular business, the committee continued to focus specifically on: Talent management and the retention of senior management and executives.
The appropriateness of the various share option and long-term incentive plans currently in place, including inter alia, grant levels, dilution limits, performance criteria and vesting schedules.
Key points to note for the period under review include: Investec has posted an increase in attributable earnings of 14.6% from 300.7 million to 344.7 million.
Executive directors hold 1.8% and 2.6% of the issued share capital of Investec plc and Investec Limited, respectively.
Nonexecutive directors hold 0.8% and 4.3% of the issued share capital of Investec plc and Investec Limited, respectively see table on page 67.
Our total shareholder return was negative 44.8% for Investec plc in Pounds Sterling and negative 34.8% for Investec Limited in Rands.
This compares to a negative return of 15.3% for the FTSE 350 General Finance Index.
The group increased its dividend return by 18.9% in Pounds Sterling and 28.9% in Rand over the year.
We have however, experienced a decline in our share price as a result of the global credit and liquidity crisis.
This decline is not out of line with the fall in share prices of other UK universal and global investment banks.
Since listing on the London Stock Exchange in 2002, Investec plc has outperformed the FTSE 350 General Finance Index see graph on page 64.
The report complies with the provisions of the 2006 London Combined Code, Schedule 7A of the UK Companies Act 1985, the UK Financial Services Authority Listing Rules, the South African King II Code of Corporate Practice and Conduct and the JSE Limited Listing Rules.
Additional information has also been included to reflect the most common enquiries received.
Furthermore, the auditors are of the opinion that the auditable part of this report on pages xx to xx was properly prepared, in accordance with Schedule 7A of the UK Companies Act 1985.
The committee unanimously recommends that you vote to approve this report at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
Signed on behalf of the board George Alford Chairman, Remuneration Committee 17 June 2008 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 56 Overview of the year Remuneration report Composition and role of the committee The members of the Remuneration Committee throughout the year were George Alford Chairman, Geoffrey Howe and Sir Chips Keswick.
The members are independent non-executive directors and are free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The committee's principal responsibilities and objectives are to: Determine, develop and agree with the board, the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of executive directors and executive management comprising individuals discharging managerial responsibilities, who are the global heads of our core areas of activity and are members of our global operations forum.
Ensure that qualified and experienced management and executives will be provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and will be, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their contribution to the success of the group and alignment with the corporate objectives and business strategy.
Review and approve the design of, and determine targets and objectives for any performance related pay schemes for directors and executive management and approve annual payouts under such schemes.
Determine, within the terms of the agreed policy, the total individual remuneration packages of executive directors and executive management including, where appropriate, bonuses, incentive payments and share scheme awards.
Oversee any major changes in our employee benefit structures.
Ensure that the comments, recommendations and rules within the UK and South Africa pertaining to director's remuneration are given due regard, in determining the packages of executive directors.
The committee is authorised by the board to seek any information it requires from any employee in order to perform its duties.
The committee's terms of reference are available on our website.
Meetings The committee met eight times during the financial year with full attendance other than for one meeting which Sir Chips Keswick was unable to attend.
The Company Secretary of Investec plc acts as Secretary to the committee.
Executive directors do not attend these meetings, although the Chairman of the board has attended on one occasion.
The Chairman of the committee reports on the activities of the committee at each meeting of the full board.
Advisers to the committee Where appropriate, the committee has access to independent executive remuneration consultants.
The selection of the advisers is at the discretion of the committee Chairman, and Investec funds any expenses relating to the appointment of external consultants.
During the financial year, the committee continued to use the services of its advisers, Hewitt New Bridge Street, which amongst other things specifically reviewed and provided information on appropriate benchmark, industry and comparable organisations' remuneration practices.
Furthermore, we have used the services of Linklaters, which have advised on a number of issues pertaining to our incentive plans.
Linklaters is one of Investec plc's legal advisers.
Certain specialist divisions within the group, for example, Human Resources and the Staff Shares division, provide supporting information and documentation relating to matters that are presented to the committee.
This includes, for example, comparative data and motivations for proposed salary, bonus and share awards.
The employees within these specialist divisions, which provide support to the committee, are not board directors and are not appointed by the committee.
While executive directors have the right to address any meeting of the committee, they play no role in the determination of their remuneration package or that of any other executive director.
Policy on executive directors' and employees' remuneration Our philosophy is to employ the highest calibre individuals, who are characterised by integrity, intellect and innovation and who adhere and subscribe to our culture, values and philosophies.
We strive to inspire entrepreneurship by providing a working environment that stimulates extraordinary performance, so that executive directors and employees may be positive contributors to our clients, their communities and the group.
We reward executive directors and employees for their contribution through payment of an industry competitive annual package, a variable performance reward and ownership in the form of share incentive scheme participation.
Overall rewards are considered as important as our core values of work content greater responsibility, variety of work and high level of challenge and work affiliation entrepreneurial feel to the company and unique culture in the attraction, retention and motivation of employees.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 57 Overview of the year Remuneration report We have a strong entrepreneurial, merit and values-based culture, characterised by passion, energy and stamina.
The ability to live and perpetuate our values, culture and philosophies in the pursuit of excellence is considered paramount in determining overall reward levels.
Both the type of people the organisation attracts, and the culture and environment within which they work, remain crucial in determining our success and long-term progress.
The key principles of our remuneration policy for executive directors and employees, which were consistently applied during the financial year, are as follows: Reward programmes are designed and administered to align directors' and employees' interests with those of stakeholders.
Reward programmes are clear and transparent, in order to retain individual interest in, and identification with, our short and long-term success.
Total rewards comprise a fixed and variable component.
Total compensation base salary, pension, benefits and incentives is targeted to the relevant competitive market see below at upper quartile levels for superior performance.
A significant proportion of rewards, including annual and long-term incentive components, are explicitly linked to the performance of the business and the individual business units.
We recognise the performance of the business and the individual.
As indicated above, qualitative and quantitative issues form an integral part of the determination of reward levels.
Reward levels are targeted to be commercially competitive, on the following basis: - The most relevant competitive reference points for reward levels are based on the scope of responsibility and individual contributions made.
- Appropriate benchmark, industry and comparable organisations' remuneration practices are reviewed regularly.
- For executive directors, the FTSE 350 General Finance firms provide the most appropriate benchmark.
- For employees, a combination of firms from the JSE Financial 15 and the FTSE 350 General Finance sector offer the most appropriate benchmark.
- The committee also reviews on an individual basis data on other international banks with whom we compete.
- The committee recognises that we operate an international business and compete with both local and international competitors in each of our markets.
- In order to avoid disproportionate packages across areas of the group and between executives, adjustments are made at any extremes to ensure broad internal consistency.
Adjustments may also be made to the competitive positioning of pay components for individuals, in cases where a higher level of investment is needed in order to build or grow either a business unit or our capability in a geography.
Policy on non-executive directors' remuneration The board agrees and determines the fees of non-executive directors and the fees are reviewed annually.
The board's policy is that fees should reflect individual responsibilities and membership of board committees.
The fee structure covers the dual roles that the directors perform for the UK listed Investec plc and the South African listed Investec Limited boards.
The fee structure for nonexecutive directors except the Chairman for the 2008 and 2009 financial years is shown below: Non-executive directors' remuneration 2008 financial year As approved by the board for the 2009 financial year Basic fee 50 000 per year 53 000 per year Chairman of the DLC Audit Committee 40 000 per year 45 000 per year Chairman of the DLC Remuneration Committee 30 000 per year 32 000 per year Member of the DLC Audit Committee 12 500 per year 13 000 per year Member of the DLC Remuneration Committee 12 000 per year 12 500 per year Member of Investec Bank UK Limited board 8 500 per year 9 000 per year Member of the Investec Bank Limited board R135 000 per year R150 000 per year Fees are also payable for any additional time committed to the group including attendance at certain other meetings 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 58 Overview of the year Remuneration report During the 2008 financial year, the Chairman received a total fee of 340 000 for his services as a director and it is intended that he will receive 360 000 for the 2009 financial year.
Non-executive directors may not participate in our share option plans or our long-term share incentive and pension plans.
Prior to the implementation of our Dual Listed Companies DLC structure in July 2002, certain non-executive directors did participate in Investec Group Limited's now Investec Limited's leveraged equity plans.
There is no requirement for non-executive directors to hold shares in the company.
The company has left this choice to the discretion of each non-executive director.
Service contracts and terms of employment Our executive directors have indefinite contracts of employment, terminable by either party giving six months' written notice to the other.
Each executive director is entitled to receive a basic salary and is also eligible for an annual bonus, the amount of which will be determined at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Furthermore, the executive directors may elect to sacrifice a portion of their annual salary to receive company benefits such as a travel allowance and medical aid.
The full costs of these benefits will be deducted from their annual salary.
The contracts of employment do not contain provisions for compensation payable on early termination.
Executive directors are permitted to accept outside appointments on external boards or committees so long as these are not deemed to interfere with the business of the Company.
Any fees earned by executives in this regard are not retained and are given back to the respective companies.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts and letters of appointment confirm the terms and conditions of their service.
The letters of appointment do not contain provisions for compensation payable on early termination.
Unless the nonexecutive directors resign earlier or are removed from their positions, they will remain appointed as directors until the close of our annual general meeting in 2009 subject to rotational re-election as directors at the 2008 meeting and in terms of the provision of the Articles of Association.
All non-executive directors who have been members of the board for longer than nine years are subject to annual re-election as required in terms of our Articles of Association.
Those directors seeking rotational re-election at the 2008 Annual General Meeting are shown on page 52.
Biographical details of the directors of the board These details can be found on pages 81 to 84.
Dates of appointment to the board The boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited are separate and subject to separate legal obligations for each company.
In terms of the DLC arrangements, they comprise the same persons who are authorised, as boards, to manage Investec as if it were a unified economic enterprise.
Details on the dates the directors were appointed to the board can be found on page xx.
Policies on the components of remuneration and employment The reward package for executive directors and employees comprises: Base salary and benefits.
The committee reviews the elements of the reward package relative to appropriate benchmarks and other comparable organisations, the contribution by the individual and the business as a whole, the value of individuals in perpetuating our values and culture, and the possible replacement cost of such individuals.
The elements of the reward package, as listed above, are discussed below and the components for each director are detailed in tables accompanying this report.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 59 Overview of the year Remuneration report Base salary and benefits Salaries are reviewed annually and reflect the relative skills and experience of, and contribution made by, the individual.
Benefits are targeted at competitive levels and are delivered through flexible and tailored packages.
Benefits include pension schemes: life, disability and personal accident insurance: medical cover: and other benefits, as dictated by competitive local market practices.
Only salaries are pensionable, the annual bonuses paid are not pensionable.
Our disclosure of executive directors' salaries on page xx has been done on a gross basis i. e. inclusive of pension fund contributions from the company.
It is the company's policy to seek to set base salaries including benefits at median market levels.
Annual bonus Annual bonuses are closely linked to business performance, based on target business unit performance goals determined in the main by Economic Value Added EVA profit performance against pre-determined targets.
These targets have been in force, and unchanged, for the past few years and are subject to periodic review, with varying levels of return required for each business unit reflecting the state of market maturity, country of operation, risk, capital invested capital intensive businesses or expected expense base fee based businesses.
Individual annual incentive levels are allocated from the EVA pool, based on individual performance, as determined by the committee.
Furthermore, as discussed previously, qualitative issues are integral in the determination of annual bonuses.
In this regard, if business and individual performance goals are achieved or bettered, the variable element of the total reward package is likely to be substantially higher than the relevant target market so as to ensure that overall reward levels are positioned at the upper quartile level for superior performance, in line with our overriding remuneration policy.
As explained in the prior years report, the committee undertook a thorough assessment of the executive remuneration structure in 2007 which resulted in the removal of the annual bonus limit.
This practice was maintained during the 2008 financial year.
The committee still believes that an upper limit on the bonus award is inappropriate given the remuneration practices within the group and in similar financial services businesses.
Our policy remains to target at median salaries and upper quartile for total compensation in order to limit the increase in fixed costs.
Share option and long-term share incentive plans We have a number of share option and long-term share incentive plans that are designed to link the interests of directors and employees with those of shareholders and long-term organisational interests, through performance and risk-based equity grants.
Prior to the implementation of our DLC structure and our listing on the London Stock Exchange in July 2002, we had a number of share option, share purchase and leveraged share schemes in place that were appropriate for a South African listed company.
However, at the time of the London listing it was necessary for us to consider implementing a more internationally recognised share scheme structure and philosophy.
As a result, a number of share option plans were introduced to cater for regulatory, tax and other considerations pertaining to the various jurisdictions in which we operated.
At the same time, however, a decision was taken to maintain the schemes that were in place prior to the London listing until the allocations made in terms of those schemes matured.
While this gives rise to what appears to be a multitude of schemes, the philosophy and practical implications are fairly simple - the appropriate level of equity allocation is determined for each employee and then awards are made out of the scheme that is considered most appropriate for that individual given his her location, tax and regulatory environment.
The share option and long-term share incentive plans in operation, and in which the directors are eligible to participate, are summarised in the table below and further details are provided on our website.
Executive directors collectively hold approximately 2.1% of our issued share capital.
Leveraged equity plans A group of senior and executive managers, including certain Investec plc Investec Limited directors, who have or can have a significant impact on the business, were granted participation prior to the implementation of the DLC structure in a leveraged equity plan known as Fintique II, which was established in 1996.
Further details on Fintique II are provided in tables accompanying this report and on our website.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 60 Overview of the year Remuneration report Summary of Investecs share option and long-term share incentive plans Plan Eligibility Date Options Maximum Performance Vesting Awards Total 2 impleshares award per conditions period made unvested as 1 mented individual during at 31 March 3 4 5 6 the year 2008 Current share option plans Investec plc New and 28 Aug Investec plc Cumulative Growth in Tranches of Nil Number: Share Option existing UK full- 2002 limit of headline EPS 50%, 25% and 1 846 230 Plan 2002 time employees 2 500 000 UK RPI plus 3% 25% at the approved - grants up to across all compounded third, fourth % of issued plan the value of option plans annually over and fifth share capital 30 000 In any the period of anniversaries of company: Directors and financial year: the grant respectively 0.4% executives 1x remuneration package Investec plc New and 28 Aug Investec plc Cumulative Growth in Tranches of 360 103 Number: Share Option existing full-time 2002 limit of headline EPS 25% each on 2 767 745 Plan 2002 employees 2 500 000 UK RPI plus 3% the second, unapproved Excluding across all compounded third, fourth % of issued plan employees in SA, option plans annually over and fifth share capital Botswana, In any the period of anniversaries of company: Namibia and financial year: the grant 0.7% Mauritius 1x remuneraUK employees - tion package grants exceeding 30 000 Directors and executives 7 Long-term incentive plans Investec 1 New and 16 Mar Investec plc Cumulative None 75% end of 6 780 166 Number: Limited Share existing full time 2005 limit of year 4 and 20 829 786 Incentive Plan employees 2 500 000 25% end of - nil cost Excluding across all year 5 % of issued options employees in SA, option plans share capital Botswana, In any of company Namibia and financial year: 4.9% Mauritius 1x remuneraExcluding tion package executive directors Investec New and 16 Mar Investec Cumulative None 75% end of 7 601 180 Number: Limited existing full time 2005 Limited limit of year 4 and 23 598 776 Share employees in SA, 2 500 000 25% end of Incentive Botswana, across all year 5 % of issued Plan - nil cost Namibia and option plans share capital options Mauritius In any of company Excluding financial year: 10.1% executive 1x remuneradirectors tion package 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 61 Overview of the year Remuneration report Summary of Investecs share option and long-term share incentive plans continued Plan Eligibility Date Options Maximum Performance Vesting Awards Total 2 impleshares award per conditions period made unvested as 1 mented individual during at 31 March 3 4 5 6 the year 2008 7 Long-term incentive plans Investec plc Executive 14 Nov Matching A maximum Vesting scale 75% end of 150 000 Number Share directors 2005 awards of of 750 000 over the year 4 and 2 450 000 Matching Investec investment period based 25% end of Plan 2005 Limited and shares may on normalised year 5 % of issued Investec plc be invested EPS growth in share capital shares in in the plan excess of UK of company the ratio of each time RPI, with 0% 0.4% 1:1 against the plan is vesting if EPS shares operated growth is less invested in than 4% plus plan by the RPI p. a. and director 100% vesting if EPS growth is in excess of RPI plus 12% p. a.
Plan introduced in terms of our empowerment transaction The Investec Employees of 15 May Investec 500 000 None Tranches over 2 733 409 Number: Limited Investec Limited 2003 Limited individual eight years 10 739 994 Security who are African, limit in terms ending Purchase Coloured or of this 15 May 2011 % of issued Scheme Indian individuals scheme share capital 2003 Excluding Cumulative of company: executive limit of 4.6% directors 2 500 000 across all option plans In any financial year: 1x remuneration package Share plans not currently in use Investec plc New and 28 Aug Cash Cumulative Growth in Tranches of Last grant Number: Share existing full-time 2002 settled limit of headline EPS 25% each on made on 10 440 Appreciation employees based on 2 500 000 UK RPI plus 3% the second, 17 June Option Plan Excluding the across all compounded third, fourth 2003 % of issued 2002 employees in SA, increase in option plans annually over and fifth share capital Botswana, the Investec In any the period of anniversaries of company: Namibia and Limited financial year: the grant 0% Mauritius share price 1x remuneraUK employees - tion package grants exceeding 30 000 Directors and executives Investec New and 20 June Investec Cumulative Growth in Tranches of Last grant Number: Limited existing full-time 2002 Limited and limit of headline EPS 25% each on made on 2 778 206 Security employees in SA, Investec plc 2 500 000 UK RPI plus 3% the second, 14 Dec Purchase and Botswana, across all compounded third, fourth 2005 % of issued Option Namibia and option plans annually over and fifth share capital Scheme Mauritius In any the period of anniversaries of company: Trust 2002 Directors and financial year: the grant 0.4% executives 1x remuneration package 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 62 Overview of the year Remuneration report Summary of Investecs share option and long-term share incentive plans continued Plan Eligibility Date Options Maximum Performance Vesting Awards Total 2 impleshares award per conditions period made unvested as 1 mented individual during at 31 March 3 4 5 6 the year 2008 Share plans introduced prior to implementation of the DLC structure Investec Employees - 1 Nov Investec Cumulative None Tranches of Last grant Number: Group excluding SA, 1999 Group limit of 25% each on made on 410 510 Limited Botswana, Limited 2 500 000 the second, 20 June 2002.
UK Share Namibia and prior to across all third, fourth No further % of issued Option Plan Mauritius implementa option plans and fifth grants will share capital Directors and tion of In any anniversaries.
be made of company executives DLC financial year: Awards lapse 0.1% structure 1x remunera- 10 years after now tion package grant.
Investec Limited and Investec plc Investec Employees in SA, 25 Nov Investec Cumulative None Tranches of Last grant Number: Limited Botswana, 1988 Limited and limit of 25% each on made on 2 540 824 Security Namibia and Investec plc 2 500 000 the second, 2 May 2002.
Purchase and Mauritius across all third, fourth No further % of issued Option Directors and option plans and fifth grants will share capital Scheme Trust executives In any anniversaries.
be made of company financial year: Awards lapse 0.4% 1x remunera- 10 years after tion package grant.
Notes: 1 The limits for allocations to employees and executive management during a financial year may be exceeded if the directors determine that exceptional circumstances make it desirable that options should be granted in excess of that limit.
2 These conditions require growth in headline earnings per share EPS over the relevant option period to equal or exceed the UK Retail Price Index RPI plus 3% compounded annually over the same period.
In choosing the performance targets for this plan, the committee considered the merits of EPS-based targets against other possibilities, such as comparative performance or comparative growth in return on average shareholders' funds ROE against a basket of other companies.
The committee determined that EPS-based targets are most appropriate as they measure our underlying growth.
The committee intends to continue to apply this during the 2009 financial year but keeps the whole matter of the suitability of target-linked share based remuneration under periodic review.
This note does not apply to the Share Matching Plan 2005 which has different performance conditions as approved by shareholders further information is available on our website.
3 This represents the number of awards made to all participants.
For further details, see the directors' report on page 92.
More details on the directors' shareholdings are also provided in tables accompanying this report.
4 Dilution limits: Investec is committed to following the Association of British Insurers' ABI guidelines and accordingly, as from the date of the implementation of our DLC structure 29 July 2002, the maximum number of new shares which may be issued by the company under all of the share plans in respect of grants made after July 2002 may not exceed 10% of the issued share capital of the company over a rolling ten-year period.
The committee regularly monitors the utilisation of dilution limits and available headroom to ensure that these guidelines are complied with.
The issued share capital of Investec plc and Investec Limited at 31 March 2008 was 423.3 million shares and 234.3 million shares, respectively.
As announced on the stock exchange news services, 4.9 million Investec plc and 6.7 million Investec Limited shares were issued to the staff share schemes during the year.
5 The market price of an Investec plc share as at 31 March 2008 was 3.39 2007: 6.58, ranging from a low of 2.94 to a high of 7.65 during the financial year.
6 The market price of an Investec Limited share as at 31 March 2008 was R57.43 2007: R93.30, ranging from a low of R50.90 to a high of R104.40 during the financial year.
7 The rules of these long-term incentive plans do not allow Investec to issue new shares to the plan to satisfy any awards made to participants, nor may awards be made to executive directors.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 63 Overview of the year Remuneration report Performance graph total shareholder return We have implemented a DLC structure, in terms of which we have primary listings in London and Johannesburg.
The listing on the London Stock Exchange LSE took place on 29 July 2002, although we have been listed in South Africa since 1986.
Schedule 7A of the UK Companies Act 1985 requires this report to include a performance graph of Investec plc's total shareholder return TSR performance against that of a broad market index.
We found it difficult to locate an appropriate group of companies to benchmark ourselves against because of our specialist activities.
A number of companies within the FTSE 350 General Finance Index conduct similar activities to us, although they do not necessarily have the same geographical profile.
Nevertheless, we believe that this is the most appropriate index against which to measure our performance on the LSE.
The graph below shows the cumulative shareholder return for a holding of our shares in blue in Pounds Sterling on the LSE, compared to the average total shareholder return of other members of the FTSE 350 General Finance Index.
It shows that, at 31 March 2008, a hypothetical 100 invested in Investec plc at the time of its listing on the LSE in July 2002 would have generated a total return of 248 compared with a return of 161 if invested in the FTSE 350 General Finance Index.
Investec plc has therefore outperformed the FTSE 350 General Finance Index over the period.
During the period from 1 April 2007 to 31 March 2008, the return to shareholders of Investec plc measured in Pounds Sterling and Investec Limited measured in Rands was negative 44.8% and negative 34.8%, respectively.
The market price of our shares on the LSE was 3.39 as at 31 March 2008, ranging from a low of 2.94 to a high of 7.65 during the financial year.
Furthermore, the market price of our shares on the JSE Limited was R57.43 as at 31 March 2008, ranging from a low of R50.90 to a high of R104.40 during the financial year.
2 Gross remuneration of S Koseff, B Kantor and A Tapnack has increased on average by approximately 5.0%.
The gross remuneration of GR Burger is determined in Rands and converted into Pounds Sterling.
In Rand terms GR Burger's gross remuneration increased by 6.5% from R2 625 000 to R2 795 833.
Gross remuneration increases for other employees across the group have generally been in the range of 4% to 10% depending on where they are employed, and the increases awarded to executive directors are consistent with this.
3 The executive directors receive other benefits which may include pension schemes: life, disability and personal accident insurance: and medical cover, on similar terms to other senior executives.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 65 Overview of the year Remuneration report 4 A breakdown of the components of the reward packages for the executive directors in the 2007 financial year is as follows: Name Salary Total other Gross Annual Total benefits remuneration bonus remuneration Executive directors S Koseff Chief Executive Officer 315 644 69 356 385 000 3 050 000 3 435 000 B Kantor Managing Director 354 796 30 204 385 000 3 050 000 3 435 000 GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director 212 944 48 177 261 121 2 250 000 2 511 121 A Tapnack 244 167 29 137 273 304 1 050 000 1 323 304 Total Pounds Sterling 1 127 551 176 874 1 304 425 9 400 000 10 704 425 5 Resigned with effect from 30 September 2007.
Retirement benefits None of the executive directors belong to a defined benefit pension scheme and all are members of one of our defined contribution schemes.
The total contribution to these schemes, payable by the company, included in the total salary of the director or included in benefits paid as highlighted in the tables above, is as follows: Name 2008 2007 Executive directors S Koseff Chief Executive Officer 54 813 49 828 B Kantor Managing Director 27 563 21 021 GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director 26 841 29 418 A Tapnack 25 833 24 417 Total Pounds Sterling 135 050 124 684 Executive directors' total assumed cost to company The table below provides an indication of the total cost to the company in relation to executive directors' remuneration.
Total cash payments and benefits reflect the information disclosed in the tables above.
The IFRS accounting charge in terms of IFRS 2 reflects the cost that has been expensed by the company in its income statement in the relevant period in relation to share options and long-term incentive awards that have been granted to the executives.
Further details on these equity awards are provided in the tables that follow.
Name Salary, bonus Accounting Total Salary, bonus Accounting Total and other IFRS charge assumed and other IFRS charge remuneration benefits in relation remuneration benefits in relation to expense to equity expense equity awards awards 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 Executive directors S Koseff Chief Executive Officer 3 297 500 636 737 3 934 237 3 435 000 662 087 4 097 087 B Kantor Managing Director 3 307 959 633 809 3 941 768 3 435 000 653 331 4 088 331 GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director 2 708 401 647 000 3 355 401 2 511 121 552 800 3 063 921 A Tapnack 1 039 177 170 075 1 209 252 1 323 304 179 591 1 502 895 Total Pounds Sterling 10 353 037 2 087 621 12 440 658 10 704 425 2 047 809 12 752 234 Directors' shareholdings, options and long-term incentive awards The company's register of directors' interests contains full details of directors' shareholdings, options and long-term incentive awards.
The tables that follow provide information on the directors' shareholdings, options and long-term incentive awards for the year ended 31 March 2008.
2 The market price of an Investec plc share as at 31 March 2008 was 3.39 2007: 6.58, ranging from a low of 2.94 to a high of 7.65 during the financial year.
3 The market price of an Investec Limited share as at 31 March 2008 was R57.43 2007: R93.30, ranging from a low of R50.90 to a high of R104.40 during the financial year.
4 In addition to his shareholdings reflected in the table above, B Kantor has an interest in Investec Limited shares via futures contracts, the details of which are as follows: - B Kantor purchased single stock futures over 800 000 Investec Limited shares at a strike price of R62.30 per share.
5 In November 2003, Investec Limited concluded an empowerment transaction with Tiso Group Tiso, Peu Group Proprietary Limited Peu, a broad-based Entrepreneurship Development Trust and an Employee Share Trust in terms of which they acquired a 25.1% stake in the issued share capital of Investec Limited.
MP Malungani is the Chairman of Peu and F Titi was the former Chief Executive Officer of Tiso.
F Titi disposed of his entire interest in Tiso on 31 January 2008, resulting in his indirect interest in Investec Limited reducing to nil.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 67 Overview of the year Remuneration report Directors' interest in preference shares as at 31 March 2008 Name Investec Bank Limited Investec Limited Investec plc 1 April 31 March 1 April 31 March 1 April 31 March 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 Executive directors S Koseff 4 000 4 000 3 000 3 000 21 198 21 198 Non-executive directors HS Herman 1 135 1 135 - - - - Notes: The market price of an Investec Bank Limited preference share as at 31 March 2008 was R91.00 2007: R103.10.
The market price of an Investec Limited preference share as at 31 March 2008 was R84.40 2007: R95.00.
The market price of an Investec plc preference share as at 31 March 2008 was R98.00 2007: R124.99.
Directors' attributable interest in Investec plc and Investec Limited shares through a leveraged equity plan called Fintique II as at 31 March 2008 Name Entitlement to Entitlement to Settlement Total Investec plc shares Investec Limited shares period entitlement 1 April 31 March 1 April 31 March i. e. Investec 2007 2008 2007 2008 plc and Investec Limited shares - % interest in scheme 31 March 2008 Executive directors S Koseff 918 420 918 420 539 395 539 395 1 April 2008 to 8.2% 31 July 2008 1 B Kantor - - 221 500 - 1 April 2008 to - 31 July 2008 GR Burger 629 515 629 515 369 715 369 715 1 April 2008 to 5.6% 31 July 2008 A Tapnack - - 168 340 168 340 1 April 2008 to 0.9% 31 July 2008 Non-executive directors HS Herman 451 045 451 045 264 900 264 900 1 April 2008 to 4.0% 31 July 2008 Total number 1 998 980 1 998 980 1 563 850 1 342 350 19.0% 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 68 Overview of the year Remuneration report Notes: Fintique II was constituted on 31 July 1996, via a special purpose vehicle SPV, initially available to 235 selected executives, senior managers and directors.
Participants acquired units in the SPV, where the underlying instruments are compulsory convertible debentures, which convert into 4 430 Investec shares for every 1 000 units in Fintique II.
The scheme was funded through cash contributions from participants and the upfront sale of the income stream on the debentures and the right to the redemption proceeds.
A total of 4.0 million units were issued in terms of the scheme, converting into approximately 17.8 million shares.
All the shares to which the directors are entitled in terms of the Fintique II scheme are fully tradable and so fully vested as the term is understood in the UK, and can be taken up at a price of R3.52 per share, based on the valuation of the scheme as at 31 March 2008.
The market price of an Investec plc share and an Investec Limited share as at 31 March 2008 was 3.39 and R57.43, respectively.
While the combined Investec plc and Investec Limited share entitlement will remain unchanged, the mix of Investec plc and Investec Limited shares may vary from time to time.
The directors are at risk for any shortfall on maturity of the scheme.
1 In terms of the scheme B Kantor disposed of his entitlements in respect of 221 500 Investec Limited shares at a market price of R61.61 per share on 28 February 2008.
Following the disposal of the 221 500 Investec Limited shares, B Kantor has no remaining entitlements in terms of the Fintique II scheme.
Directors' interest in options as at 31 March 2008 Investec plc shares Name Date ofExerciseNumber Exercised Options Balance Market Gross Period grant price of Investec during granted at price at gains made exercisable plc shares the lapsed 31 date of on date 1 1 1 at 1 April year during the March exercise of exercise 2007 year 2008 Executive directors S Koseff 20 Dec R22.39 41 250 41 250 - - R58.20 R1 477 162 2002 B Kantor 20 Dec 1.59 72 905 57 775 - 15 130 4.18 149 637 Vesting scale in terms 2002 of the scheme rules.
Vesting ends 20 March 2012 20 Dec 1.59 72 905 57 775 - 15 130 3.19 92 440 2002 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 69 Overview of the year Remuneration report Directors' interest in options as at 31 March 2008 continued Investec Limited shares Name Date ofExerciseNumber  grant price of Investec during granted at price at gains made Limited the lapsed 31 date of on date 1 1 1 shares at year during the March exercise of exercise 1 April 2007 year 2008 Executive directors S Koseff 20 Dec R22.26 21 250 21 250 - - R59.29 R786 888 2002 GR Burger 20 June R32.90 46 250 46 250 - - R72.40 R1 826 875 2002 20 Dec R22.26 21 250 21 250 - - R59.29 R786 888 2002 A Tapnack 20 June R32.90 34 680 34 680 - - R72.40 R1 369 860 2002 Notes: No new option grants were made to executive directors during the financial year.
The market price of an Investec plc share as at 31 March 2008 was 3.39 2007: 6.58, ranging from a low of 2.94 to a high of 7.65 during the financial year.
A total of 423.3 million Investec plc shares were in issue as at 31 March 2008.
The market price of an Investec Limited share as at 31 March 2008 was R57.43 2007: R93.30, ranging from a low of R50.90 to a high of R104.40 during the financial year.
A total of 234.3 million Investec Limited shares were in issue as at 31 March 2008.
1 Details with respect to options exercised: S Koseff exercised his options and bought 41 250 Investec plc shares and 21 250 Investec Limited shares on 18 January 2008, when the share price was R58.20 and R59.29 per Investec plc and Investec Limited share, respectively.
The performance conditions with respect to these options were met.
B Kantor exercised his options and bought 57 775 Investec plc shares on 18 January 2008, when the share price was 4.18 per share.
GR Burger exercised his options and bought 78 750 Investec plc shares and 46 250 Investec Limited shares on 18 September 2007, when the share price was R72.52 and R72.40 per Investec plc and Investec Limited share, respectively.
GR Burger exercised his options and bought 41 250 Investec plc shares and 21 250 Investec Limited shares on 18 January 2008, when the share price was R58.20 and R59.29 per Investec plc and Investec Limited share, respectively.
A Tapnack exercised his options and bought a net 3 180 Investec plc shares and sold 34 680 Investec Limited shares on 18 September 2007, when the share price was 4.90 and R72.40 per Investec plc and Investec Limited share, respectively.
A Tapnack exercised and bought 57 775 Investec plc shares on 19 March 2008, when the share price was 3.19 per share.
General comments: S Koseff's and GR Burger's options were granted in terms of the Investec Limited Share Option and Purchase Scheme Trust 2002.
B Kantor's and A Tapnack's options were granted in terms of the Investec plc Share Option Plan 2002.
The options granted on 20 June 2002 and 20 December 2002 were made for no consideration.
The options granted on 20 December 2002 have performance conditions attached which require growth in headline earnings per share over the relevant option period to equal or exceed the UK RPI plus 3% compounded annually over the same period.
There were no performance conditions attached to the options granted on 20 June 2002.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 70 Overview of the year Remuneration report Directors' interest in the Share Matching Plan 2005 as at 31 March 2008 Name Date of Exercise Number of Balance Period exercisable grant price Investec plc at shares at 31 March 1 1 April 2007 2008 Executive directors S Koseff 21 Nov 05 0.00 750 000 750 000 75% of the matching award is exercisable on 30 June 2009 and 25% on 30 June 2010 B Kantor 21 Nov 05 0.00 750 000 750 000 75% of the matching award is exercisable on 30 June 2009 and 25% on 30 June 2010 1 GR Burger 21 Nov 05 0.00 600 000 600 000 75% of the matching award is exercisable on 30 June 2009 and 25% on 30 June 2010 25 Jun 07 0.00 - 150 000 75% of the matching award is exercisable on 25 June 2011 and 25% on 25 June 2012 A Tapnack 21 Nov 05 0.00 200 000 200 000 75% of the matching award is exercisable on 30 June 2009 and 25% on 30 June 2010 Notes: This plan was approved by shareholders at an extraordinary general meeting held on 14 November 2005.
The plan is considered essential in improving our long-term prospects for recruitment and retention of key individuals.
The plan also provides further alignment of the interests of shareholders and management as the committee believes that a significant element of remuneration should be linked to our ability to deliver sustainable results to shareholders, and at the same time enable management to share in these results.
Further details on the plan are available on our website.
1 GR Burger was awarded nil cost options over 150 000 Investec plc shares on 25 June 2007 and has pledged the equivalent number of shares in terms of the plan rules.
The award is subject to performance conditions.
Summary: total interest in Investec plc and Investec Limited ordinary shares, options and long-term incentive awards as at 31 March 2008 Investec plc Name Beneficially Fintique II Options Share Balance at Balance at and nonMatching 31 March 31 March beneficially Plan 2008 2007 held Executive directors S Koseff 4 886 633 918 420 - 750 000 6 555 053 6 555 053 B Kantor 1 500 - 15 130 750 000 766 630 824 405 GR Burger 2 530 095 629 515 - 750 000 3 909 610 3 759 610 A Tapnack 88 900 - 15 130 200 000 304 030 331 975 Total number 7 507 128 1 547 935 30 260 2 450 000 11 535 323 11 471 043 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 71 Overview of the year Remuneration report Summary: total interest in Investec plc and Investec Limited ordinary shares, options and long-term incentive awards as at 31 March 2008 continued Investec Limited Name Beneficially Fintique II Options Share Balance at Balance at and nonMatching 31 March 31 March beneficially Plan 2008 2007 held Executive directors S Koseff 441 515 539 395 - - 980 910 980 910 1 B Kantor 5 001 000 - - - 5 001 000 6 557 700 GR Burger 499 885 369 715 - - 869 600 869 600 A Tapnack 185 105 168 340 - - 353 445 388 125 Total number 6 127 505 1 077 450 - - 7 204 955 8 796 335 Notes: The total number of Investec plc and Investec Limited shares in issue as at 31 March 2008 was 423.3 million and 234.3 million, respectively.
1 In addition to his shareholdings reflected in the table above, B Kantor has an interest in Investec Limited shares via futures contracts, the details of which are as follows: - B Kantor purchased single stock futures over 800 000 Investec Limited shares at a strike price of R62.30 per share.
Conclusion The Remuneration Committee will continue to ensure that reward packages remain competitive, provide appropriate incentive for performance and take due regard of our culture, values and philosophies.
The committee will keep the existing remuneration arrangements, as discussed in this report, under review during the 2009 financial year.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 72 Our business responsibility Our Business Responsibility Our Business Responsibility Taking stock Just as international sustainability issues are showing signs of becoming mainstream, the realities of the global economic cycle have surfaced to push back against an excessive business focus on non-financial matters.
Inevitably, fears about the deepening international global credit crunch, deteriorating health of the international banking system, sharply weakening economic and inflation outlook, and the rising threat of international protectionism, took precedence during the reporting period.
Whereas this inevitably reduced some of the momentum that had previously built up around broader sustainability issues within business, the financial concerns of the period did not result in an outright reversal of focus on the non-financial components of sustainability.
Rather, the period merely manifested a changed balance of emphasis, all the while within the broad realm of sustainability, and any tensions that may have arisen between the different elements during the period were clearly seen to be cyclical not structural.
From an Investec standpoint, the reporting period saw continued efforts at cementing and entrenching Our Business Responsibility within the bank.
Increasingly understood as Investec's adopted terminology for sustainability, Our Business Responsibility has now come to be seen as the logical confluence between Profits, People and Planet.
Developments during the year The detail pertaining to group-wide developments relating to the different aspects of Our Business Responsibility during the reporting period can be accessed in full elsewhere, on our website.
The period saw continued solid progress on a broad array of fronts.
The non-financial dimensions of Our Business Responsibility saw continued focus on the many different aspects of our people and environmental endeavours, inside and outside the organisation.
On the people front, continued internal focus on diversity, talent and leadership development commanded much time and attention, while our external people focus revolved around the developmental aspect of our CSI activities.
Our environmental endeavours, everywhere, continued to gain traction.
Specific sustainability initiatives on the South African front during the period included a commissioned third-party review of the CIDA City Campus.
Designed to provide assurance regarding both the financial and non-financial sustainability dimensions of the institution, the review was also intended to inform our continued involvement with CIDA in the context of so many competing demands on our resources.
On the environmental front, South Africa launched an internal countrywide paper reduction campaign, aimed at effecting a 15% reduction in per capita consumption, the eventual outcome of which was a per capita decrease in consumption in excess of 20%.
A new South African staff initiative, Team Green, modelled on the success of its Investec UK equivalent, was established to help change internal environmental behaviours.
We also featured very strongly in this year's Financial Mail Top Empowerment Company awards, ranking sixth and placing first of the banking groups in the overall ranking.
On the UK front, traditional CSI activities remained an ongoing source of focus but an extensive review throughout the period may drive some strategic change in emphasis going forward.
The UK's internal environmental activities, further established than elsewhere in the group, continued to win external plaudits and, for the second successive year, we featured very strongly in the prestigious City of London Prize, winning the Chairman's Cup.
Outside of our principal geographies, sustainability has been more a function of the financial prerequisites associated with the need to grow, build critical mass and ensure the successful integration of acquired business.
However, here too, steps are being taken to broaden the understanding of Our Business Responsibility and to cement the notion of the triple bottom line.
Looking ahead In seeking to demystify what sustainability means for our organisation, we have adopted the approach that Our Business Responsibility is not something that we are looking to do as an aside.
Rather, in the context of the culture and values that drive our organisation, Our Business Responsibility is a logical extension of who we are and how we go about things.
Indeed, increasingly within Investec, the recognition is that Our Business Responsibility is simply 'good business'.
As sustainability issues worldwide have become increasingly mainstream in recent years, so have they within Investec.
There is now a more soundly based appreciation of our responsibilities as an effective corporate citizen.
Having always had an innate sense of wanting to do the right thing, the adoption of a formal group philosophy in respect of Our Business Responsibility now not only seeks to align the interests of both shareholders and stakeholders over time, but provides the business units and regions with a framework of reference within which to determine their own approach.
This philosophy very simply states that 'in pursuit of sustainable profits, we seek to be a positive influence in all our business activities, in each of the societies in which we operate.
We do this by empowering communities through entrepreneurship and education, recognising the true value of diversity and addressing the challenges posed by climate change, and our use of natural resources'.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 74 Our Business Responsibility Our Business Responsibility From an overall group perspective, there is a certain asymmetry in our non-financial sustainability endeavours.
South Africa, where our focus on sustainability has its roots, has long prioritised the social aspects of the triple bottom line, embracing only recently the environmental dimensions, whereas the emphasis has been exactly the other way around in our other principal geographies.
The social aspects which underpin our approach to Our Business Responsibility revolve around education and entrepreneurship.
We boast a long-standing and credible track record whereby we have sought to satisfy unmet needs, principally in South Africa, by means of entrepreneurial flair and innovation examples are the CIDA City Campus and The Business Place.
On the Black Economic Empowerment front, too, we have been consistently proactive, and are a recognised leader in the identification, financing, creation and replication of BEE platforms within South Africa.
Outside of South Africa, the other principal geographies are also beginning to focus more attention on the specific social dynamics within their respective operating environments and drawing where possible on the essence of the group approach.
As has been the case in South Africa, education and entrepreneurship are being singled out for pursuit, with the same regional desire for active engagement.
The environmental dimensions of sustainability remain an incremental advance for us.
As a specialist bank, we continue to ponder the ramifications, and value-add, of signing up to inviolable commitments around our carbon-emissions or financing status.
That said, we have actively explored, and continue to explore, ways in which we can address our own internal behaviours, and are looking to cement, in a more structured way, an understanding of the risks posed by environmental considerations.
All regions are now looking to begin the exercise of measuring their respective carbon footprint, and the pursuit of commercial opportunity within the environmental space is well understood, and selectively pursued.
The ongoing electricity crisis in South Africa has highlighted the need to preserve energy and this theme, which will also translate well outside of South Africa, will represent the next phase in our group-wide internal environmental awareness campaign.
Beyond that, the year ahead will see continued focus on the many multifaceted sub-components of sustainability, on the recognition that the business units will be the primary driver of our energies on this front, with the centre merely seeking to maintain responsibility for oversight, coordination and integration.
Having accomplished the goal of re-energising our sustainability efforts in the past year, and formally incorporating the missing component of the environment, we have now built an appropriate platform from which to progress further.
Our more comprehensive, widespread and mature understanding of Our Business Responsibility will provide us with the sense of purpose to guide our continued sustainability journey and, the vagaries of the economic cycle permitting, the year ahead will enable us to make additional advances.
The 2008 Our Business Responsibility report can be accessed on our website at www.
com grouplinks obr 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 75 Additional information Additional information Shareholder analysis We have implemented a Dual Listed Companies DLC structure in terms of which we have primary listings both in Johannesburg and London.
Investec plc, which houses the majority of our non-Southern African businesses, was listed on the London Stock Exchange on 29 July 2002.
Investec plc also has a secondary listing on the JSE Limited JSE.
Investec Limited, which houses our Southern African and Mauritius operations, has been listed in South Africa since 1986.
As at 31 March 2008 Investec plc and Investec Limited had 423.3 million and 234.3 million ordinary shares in issue, respectively.
In November 2003, Investec implemented an empowerment transaction.
The shareholding of MP Malungani non-executive director of Investec is shown under the holding of Peu Group Proprietary Limited.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 77 Additional information Shareholder analysis Largest shareholders as at 31 March 2008 In accordance with the terms provided for in Section 793 of the UK Companies Act 2006 and Section 140A of the South African Companies Act, 1973, we have conducted investigations into the registered holders of our ordinary shares including nominee and asset management companies and the results are as disclosed below.
Investec plc Shareholder analysis by manager group Number of shares % holding 1 Public Investment Commissioner ZA 38 386 376 9.1 2 Old Mutual Asset Managers ZA 30 738 426 7.3 3 Investec Securities Pty Limited ZA 27 170 269 6.4 4 Legal & General Investment Mgmt Ltd UK 19 383 804 4.6 5 Coronation Fund Managers ZA 19 212 614 4.5 6 RMB Asset Management ZA 15 332 295 3.6 7 JP Morgan Asset Management UK 14 320 783 3.4 8 Jupiter Asset Management Limited UK 13 173 074 3.1 9 Investec Asset Management ZA 10 663 833 2.5 10 Sanlam Investment Management ZA 10 232 649 2.4 Cumulative total 198 614 123 46.9 The top 10 shareholders account for 46.9% of the total shareholding in Investec plc.
This information is based on a threshold of 20 000 shares.
Some major fund managers hold additional shares below this, which may cause the above figures to be marginally understated.
Investec Limited Shareholder analysis by manager group Number of shares % holding 1 Public Investment Commissioner ZA 28 825 669 12.3 2 Investec Staff Share Schemes ZA 20 913 734 8.9 3 Investec Asset Management ZA 15 778 185 6.7 4 STANLIB Asset Management ZA 15 671 328 6.7 5 Tiso INL Investments Pty Ltd ZA 14 000 000 6.0 6 Entrepreneurial Development Trust ZA 14 000 000 6.0 7 Peu INL Investment 1 Pty Ltd ZA 13 055 555 5.6 8 Old Mutual Asset Managers ZA 11 452 929 4.9 9 Investec Securities Pty Limited ZA 8 843 792 3.8 10 RMB Asset Management ZA 7 147 243 3.1 Cumulative total 149 688 435 64.0 The top 10 shareholders account for 64.0% of the total shareholding in Investec Limited.
Managed on behalf of clients.
In November 2003, Investec Limited implemented an empowerment transaction in which empowerment partners and an employee share scheme acquired 25.1% of the equity shareholding in Investec Limited.
2 On 4 September 2006 we implemented a 5:1 share split of Investec plc and Investec Limited shares.
Historical information has been restated for comparative purposes.
3 The LSE only include the shares in issue for Investec plc i. e. 423.3 million, in calculating market capitalisation, as Investec Limited is not incorporated in the UK.
4 Calculations are based on the groups consolidated earnings per share before goodwill and non-operating items and dividends per share as prepared in accordance with IFRS and denominated in Pounds Sterling.
5 The JSE have agreed to use the total number of shares in issue for the combined group, comprising Investec Limited and Investec plc, in calculating market capitalisation i. e. a total of 657.6 million shares in issue.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 79 Additional information Organisational structure The diagram below depicts our DLC structure and our main operating subsidiaries.
Investec plc Investec Limited LSE primary listing Sharing agreement JSE primary listing JSE secondary listing Non-Southern African Southern African operations operations Investec Asset Investec Asset Investec Kensington Investec Bank Investec Bank Investec Management Management Property Ltd Group plc UK Limited Ltd Securities Ltd Limited Holdings Pty Ltd Investec Holdings Australia Limited Investec Bank Reichmans Ltd Mauritius Ltd Investec Bank Australia Limited Note: All shareholdings in the ordinary share capital of the subsidiaries are 100%, unless otherwise stated.
The directorate of the main operating entities and subsidiaries are indicated on the pages that follow.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 80 Additional information Directorate Investec plc and Investec Limited Executive directors Name Age at Qualifications Current Investec committee Brief biography 31 directorships membership March 2008 Chief Executive Officer Stephen Koseff 56 BCom CA SA The Bidvest Group Board Risk and Capital Stephen joined Investec in 1980.
He H Dip BDP MBA Limited, JSE Limited, Committee and DLC has had diverse experience within Rensburg Sheppards Capital Committee Investec as Chief Accounting plc and a number of Officer and General Manager of Investec subsidiaries Banking, Treasury and Merchant Banking.
Managing director Bernard Kantor 58 CTA Phumelela Gaming Board Risk and Capital Bernard joined Investec in 1980.
He and Leisure Limited, Committee and DLC has had varied experience within Rensburg Sheppards Capital Committee Investec as a Manager of the Trading plc and a number of division, Marketing Manager and Chief Investec subsidiaries Operating Officer.
Group Risk and Finance director Glynn R Burger 51 BAcc CA SA Investec Bank Limited Board Risk and Capital Glynn joined Investec in 1980.
His H Dip BDP MBL and a number of Committee and DLC positions within Investec have Investec subsidiaries Capital Committee included Chief Accounting Officer, Group Risk Manager and Joint Managing Director for South Africa.
Alan Tapnack 61 BCom CA SA Investec Bank UK Board Risk and Capital Alan is a former partner of Price Limited and a number Committee and DLC Waterhouse and former Managing of Investec subsidiaries Capital Committee Director of Grey Phillips Bunton Mundell and Blake, a leading South African marketing services group.
Alan joined Investec in 1991 and has held the positions of Chief Finance Officer and Chief Executive Officer of Investec Bank UK Limited and Chief Executive Officer of Investec's UK operations.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 81 Additional information Directorate Investec plc and Investec Limited Non-executive directors Name Age at Qualifications Current Investec committee Brief biography 31 directorships membership March 2008 Nonexecutive Chairman Hugh S Herman 67 BA LLB LLD hc Growthpoint DLC Nomination and Hugh practised as an attorney before Properties Limited, Directors Affairs joining Pick n Pay, a leading South Pick n Pay Holdings Committee African retail group, where he became Limited, Pick n Pay Managing Director.
Stores Limited and a number of Investec subsidiaries Sam E 69 FCA CA SA Investec Bank Limited, DLC Audit Sam is a former international partner Abrahams Foschini Limited, Committee, Investec and Auditing South African Managing Super Group Limited plc Audit Committee, Partner of Arthur Andersen.
and Phumelela Investec Limited Audit Gaming and Leisure Committee, DLC Limited Nomination and Directors Affairs Committee, Board Risk and Capital Committee and DLC Capital Committee George FO 59 BSc Econ FCIS Investec Bank UK DLC Audit George is a former Head of Private Alford FIPD MSI Limited Committee, Investec Banking and Personnel at Kleinwort plc Audit Committee Benson Group and was a senior Investec Limited Audit advisor to the UK Financial Services Committee, Authority.
Remuneration Committee and Board Risk and Capital Committee Cheryl A 49 BA Law B Ed fide Beers - Cheryl acted as the South African Carolus Consolidated Mines High Commissioner to London Limited, The IQ between 1998 and 2001 and was Business Group Pty Chief Executive Officer of South Limited, Fenner African Tourism.
She is Chairperson of Conveyor Belting South African National Parks.
South Africa Pty Limited, Ponahalo Capital Pty Ltd, Investec Asset Management Holdings Pty Ltd and Executive Chairperson of Peotona Group Holdings Pty Limited 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 82 Additional information Directorate Investec plc and Investec Limited Non-executive directors Name Age at Qualifications Current Investec committee Brief biography 31 directorships membership March 2008 Haruko Fukuda 61 MA Cantab DSc Chairman Caliber - Haruko was previously Chief OBE Global Investments Executive Officer of the World Gold Ltd, Aberdeen Asian Council, and senior advisor at Smaller Companies Lazard.
She is former vice Chairman Investment Trust PLC.
of Nikko Europe plc and a partner She is an adviser to of James Capel & Co and a former Metro AG, Centaurus director of AB Volvo and of Foreign Capital Ltd and Aspis and Colonial Investment Trust plc.
Bank SA Geoffrey MT 58 MA Hons Jardine Lloyd DLC Audit Geoffrey is a former Managing Howe Thompson Group plc Committee, Investec Partner of Clifford Chance LLP and Chairman plc Audit Committee, was Director and Group General and Nationwide Investec Limited Audit Counsel of Robert Fleming Holdings Building Society Committee, Ltd.
He is also a former Chairman of Chairman Remuneration Railtrack Group plc.
Committee and Board Risk and Capital Committee Ian R Kantor 61 BSc Eng MBA Insinger fide Beaufort - Former Chief Executive of Investec Holdings SA in which Limited.
Investec holds an 9.2% interest, Bank Insinger fide Beaufort NV where he is Chairman of the management board Senior independent director Sir Chips 68 - Investec Bank UK DLC Audit Sir Chips is former Chairman of Keswick Limited, fide Beers SA, Committee, Investec Hambros Bank Limited and Hambros Arsenal Holdings Plc plc Audit Committee, PLC and a former director of Anglo and Arsenal Football Investec Limited Audit American plc.
He was on the Court Club Plc Committee, of the Bank of England.
Remuneration Committee, DLC Nomination and Directors Affairs Committee and Board Risk and Capital Committee 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 83 Additional information Directorate Investec plc and Investec Limited Non-executive directors Name Age at Qualifications Current Investec committee Brief biography 31 directorships membership March 2008 M Peter 50 BCom MAP LDP Super Group Limited Board Risk and Peter is Chairman and founder of Malungani Chairman, Phumelela Capital Committee Peu Group Pty Limited.
Gaming and Leisure Limited Chairman, Investec Bank Limited, Investec Asset Management Holdings Pty Limited, Peu Group Pty Limited and a number of Peu subsidiaries Sir David 64 BSc Hons FIA Pippbrook Limited, DLC Audit Sir David was previously Chief Prosser Epsom Downs Committee, Investec Executive of Legal & General Group Racecourse Limited, plc Audit Committee PLC, joining Legal & General in 1998 The Royal Automobile and Investec Limited as Group Director Investments Club Limited and Audit Committee becoming Deputy Chief Executive Intercontinental in January 1991 and Group Hotels Group PLC Chief Executive in September 1991.
Sir David was previously Chairman of the Financial Services Skills Council.
Peter RS 63 CA SA Investec Bank Limited, DLC Audit Peter was the former Managing Thomas various Investec Committee, Investec Director of The Unisec Group companies and JCI plc Audit Committee, Limited.
Limited Investec Limited Audit Committee, Board Risk and Capital Committee and DLC Nomination and Directors Affairs Committee.
Peter is the director responsible for our Sustainability process.
Fani Titi 45 BSc Hons MA Investec Bank Limited Board Risk and Capital Fani is Chairman of Investec Bank MBA Chairman, AECI Committee and DLC Limited and was the former Chairman Limited and Investec Nomination and of Tiso Group Limited.
Asset Management Directors Affairs Holdings Pty Ltd Committee Notes: Donn Jowell resigned with effect from 30 September 2007.
The dates on which the directors were appointed to the boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited can be found on page 52.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 84 Additional information Directorate Investec Bank Ltd Investec Asset Management Holdings Pty Ltd A subsidiary of Investec Limited A subsidiary of Investec Limited Fani Titi 45 Hugh S Herman 67 BSc Hons MA MBA BA LLB LLD hc Non-Executive Chairman appointed 1 June 2007 Non-Executive Chairman David M Lawrence 57 Hendrik J du Toit 46 BA Econ Hons MCom BCom Law BCom Hons cum laude MCom cum laude Deputy Chairman MPhil Cambridge Chief Executive Officer Sam E Abrahams 69 FCA CA SA Cheryl A Carolus 49 BA Law B Ed Glynn R Burger 51 BAcc CA SA H Dip BDP MBL Gail Daniel 40 BA Hons MBA Richard MW Dunne 60 CA SA Domenico Ferrini 39 BCom Bernard Kantor 58 CTA Jeremy B Gardiner 42 BCom Hons Stephen Koseff 56 BCom CA SA H Dip BDP MBA Noluthando P Gosa 45 BA Hons MBA M Peter Malungani 50 BCom MAP LDP John C Green 42 BCom LLB Karl-Bart XT Socikwa 39 BCom LLB MAP IPBM Bernard Kantor 58 CTA Bradley Tapnack 61 BCom CA SA Thabo Khojane 35 BA Econ Hons BSc Eng Peter R S Thomas 63 CA SA Stephen Koseff 56 BCom CA SA H Dip BDP MBA C Busi Tshili 44 CA SA M Peter Malungani 50 BCom MAP LDP Donn Jowell resigned with effect from 30 September 2007.
Hugh Herman resigned with effect from 1 June 2007.
Kim M McFarland 43 Appointed with effect from 2 June 2008.
BAcc BCom CA SA MBA John T McNab 41 BEng MEng CFA Bradley Tapnack 61 BCom CA SA Fani Titi 45 BSc Hons MA MBA Appointed with effect from 1 April 2008.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 85 Additional information Directorate Investec Securities Ltd Investec Property Ltd A subsidiary of Investec Limited A subsidiary of Investec Limited Andrew WJ Leith 48 Stephen Koseff 56 BCom CA SA BCom CA SA H Dip BDP MBA Chairman Chairman Sam E Abrahams 69 Glynn R Burger 51 FCA CA SA BAcc CA SA H Dip BDP MBL Reginald S Berkowitz 71 Angelique N du Hecquet fide Rauville 33 Natal Law Certificate BSSc, FSA, FSB Henry E Blumenthal 49 Dave AJ Donald 57 BCom BAcc CA SA BCom CA H Dip Tax Law Kevin Brady 41 Sam Hackner 52 BA Hons BCom Hons CA SA Joubert D Hay 42 Sam R Leon 58 BCom Hons Acc CA SA LLB London Stephen Koseff 56 Robin Magid 35 BCom CA SA H Dip BDP MBA BCom Kevin P McKenna 41 David M Nurek 58 CA SA Dip Law Dip Advanced Company Law Appointed with effect from 31 July 2007.
Ronnie Sevitz 64 Appointed with effect from 1 April 2007.
David Kuper, previous Chairman, passed away on 20 August 2007.
Appointed with effect from 7 December 2007.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 86 Additional information Directorate Investec Bank Mauritius Ltd Investec Bank UK Limited A subsidiary of Investec Bank Ltd A subsidiary of Investec plc David M Lawrence 57 Hugh S Herman 67 BA Econ Hons MCom BA LLB LLD hc Chairman Non-Executive Chairman Pierre fide Chasteigner du Mee 55 Bradley Fried 42 ACEA FBIM FMAAT BCom CA SA MBA Chief Executive Officer Angelique A Desvaux fide Marigny 32 LLB, Barrister-at-Law George F O Alford 59 Maitrise en Droit Universit fide Paris I-Panthon BSc Econ FCIS FIPD MSI - Sorbonne Bernard Kantor 58 Hugh S Herman 67 CTA BA LLB LLD hc Ian R Kantor 61 Craig C McKenzie 47 BSc Eng MBA BSc MSc CFA Sir Chips Keswick 68 Peter RS Thomas 63 CA SA Stephen Koseff 56 BCom CA SA H Dip BDP MBA David M van der Walt 43 BCom Hons CA SA Alan Tapnack 61 BCom CA SA David M van der Walt 43 BCom Hons CA SA Ian R Wohlman 53 ACIB 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 87 Additional information Directorate Investec Asset Management Investec Bank Australia Limited Limited A subsidiary of Investec plc A subsidiary of Investec Bank UK Limited Hugh S Herman 67 BA LLB LLD hc David M Gonski 54 Non-Executive Chairman BCom LLB Non-Executive Chairman Hendrik J du Toit 46 BCom Hons, cum laude MCom cum laude MPhil Geoffrey Levy AO 49 Cambridge BCom LLB FFIN Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Deputy Chairman David J Aird 41 Brian M Schwartz 55 BA Hons FCA Chief Executive Officer Domenico Ferrini 39 BCom Alan H Chonowitz 53 BAcc MCom CA SA Howard E Flight 59 MA MBA Stephen Koseff 56 BCom CA SA H Dip BDP MBA Luc JJJ van Hoof 55 Richard A Longes 62 Bernard Kantor 58 BA LLB MBA CTA Robert C Mansfield 56 Stephen Koseff 56 BCom FCPA BCom CA SA H Dip BDP MBA John W Murphy 55 Kim M McFarland 43 BCom MCom ACA FASA BAcc CA SA MBA Kathryn Spargo 56 Mark I Samuelson 43 BA LLB Hons BCom CFA Bradley Tapnack 61 Philip GS Saunders 50 BCom CA SA MA Hons Peter RS Thomas 63 Bradley Tapnack 61 CA SA BCom CA SA 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 88 Financial statements Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Summarised directors' report Extended business review We are an international, specialist banking group that provides a diverse range of financial products and services to a niche client base in three principal markets, the UK, South Africa and Australia, as well as certain other markets.
We are organised into five principal business divisions: Private Client Activities, Capital Markets, Investment Banking, Asset Management and Property Activities.
In addition, our head office provides certain group-wide integrating functions such as Risk Management, Information Technology, Finance, Investor Relations, Marketing, Human Resources and Organisational Development.
It is also responsible for our central funding as well as other activities, such as trade finance.
The operating financial review on pages 5 to 22 provides an overview of the our strategic position, performance during the financial year and outlook for the business.
It should be read in conjunction with the sections on pages 23 to 88 which elaborate on the aspects highlighted in this review.
The directors' report deals with the requirements of the combined consolidated Investec group, comprising the legal entities Investec plc and Investec Limited.
Authorised and issued share capital Investec plc and Investec Limited Details of the share capital are set out in note 35 to the financial statements.
Investec plc During the year the following shares were issued: 3 003 040 ordinary shares on 25 June 2007 at 213 pence per share.
3 772 740 special converting shares on 25 June 2007 at par.
1 253 825 ordinary shares on 23 November 2007 at 196 pence per share.
2 867 154 special converting shares on 23 November 2007 at par.
Investec Limited During the year the following shares were issued: Allotment on 20 June 2007 and issue on 25 June 2007 of 3 772 740 ordinary shares of R0.0002 each at a premium of R32.4098 per share total issue price of R32.41 per share.
Allotment on 20 June 2007 and issue on 25 June 2007 of 3 003 040 special convertible redeemable preference shares at par.
Allotment and issue on 8 August 2007 of 37 449 427 special convertible redeemable preference shares at par.
Allotment and issue on 23 November 2007 of 2 867 154 ordinary shares of R0.0002 each at a premium of R25.0498 per share total issue price of R25.05 per share.
Allotment and issue on 23 November 2007 of 1 253 825 special convertible redeemable preference shares at par.
Financial results The combined results of Investec plc and Investec Limited are set out in the financial statements and accompanying notes for the year ended 31 March 2008.
Ordinary dividends Investec plc An interim dividend was declared to shareholders as follows: 11.5 pence per ordinary share to non-South African resident shareholders 2007: 10 pence registered on 14 December 2007. to South African resident shareholders registered on 14 December 2007, a dividend paid by Investec Limited on the SA DAS share, equivalent to 5.5 pence per ordinary share and 6 pence per ordinary share paid by Investec plc.
The dividends were paid on 21 December 2007.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 90 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Summarised directors' report The directors have proposed a final dividend to shareholders registered on 25 July 2008, which is subject to the approval of the members of Investec plc at the Annual General Meeting which is scheduled to take place on 7 August 2008 and, if approved, will be paid on 12 August 2008 as follows: 13.5 pence per ordinary share to non-South African resident shareholders 2007: 13 pence registered on 25 July 2008. to South African resident shareholders registered on 25 July 2008, a dividend paid by Investec Limited on the SA DAS share, equivalent to 9.0 pence per ordinary share and 4.5 pence per ordinary share paid by Investec plc.
Shareholders in Investec plc will receive a distribution of 13.5 pence 2007: 13 pence per ordinary share.
Investec Limited An interim dividend of 159.5 cents per ordinary share 2006: 138 cents was declared to shareholders registered on 14 December 2007 and was paid on 21 December 2007.
The directors have proposed a final dividend of 202 cents per ordinary share 2007: 180 cents to shareholders registered on 25 July 2008 to be paid on 12 August 2008.
The final dividend is subject to the approval of members of Investec Limited at the Annual General Meeting scheduled for 7 August 2008.
The holders of 3 700 000 Investec Limited shares have agreed to waive their rights to dividends payable up to 31 March 2008.
Preference dividends Investec plc Perpetual preference shares Preference dividend number 3 for the period 1 April 2007 to 30 September 2007, amounting to 32.93 pence per share, was declared to members holding preference shares registered on 30 November 2007 and was paid on 11 December 2007.
Preference dividend number 4 for the period 1 October 2007 to 31 March 2008, amounting to 32.67 pence per share, was declared to members holding preference shares registered on 20 June 2008 and will be paid on 3 July 2008.
Preferred securities The third annual distribution, fixed at 7.075 per cent, on the e200 million fixed floating rate, guaranteed, non-voting, non-cumulative perpetual preferred callable securities issued by Investec Tier 1 UK LP on 24 June 2005, is due on 24 June 2008 and will be paid on 24 June 2008.
Investec Limited Non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating preference shares Preference dividend number 6 for the period 1 April 2007 to 30 September 2007 amounting to 454.04 cents per share was declared to members holding preference shares registered on 30 November 2007 and was paid on 11 December 2007.
Preference dividend number 7 for the period 1 October 2007 to 31 March 2008 amounting to 501.41 cents per share was declared to members holding preference shares registered on 20 June 2008 and will be paid on 3 July 2008.
Redeemable cumulative preference shares Dividends amounting to R38 108 887.64 were paid on the redeemable cumulative preference shares.
Directors and secretaries Details of directors and secretaries of Investec plc and Investec Limited are reflected on pages 81 to 84 and at the beginning of the annual report.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, SE Abrahams, CA Carolus, H Fukuda OBE, HS Herman, GMT Howe, B Kantor, IR Kantor, Sir Chips Keswick, MP Malungani and PRS Thomas retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting but, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
fide Jowell resigned as a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited with effect from 30 September 2007.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 91 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Summarised directors' report Directors and their interests Directors' shareholdings and options to acquire shares are set out on pages 66 to 72.
The register of directors' interests contains full details of directors' shareholdings and options to acquire shares.
Share incentive trusts Details regarding options granted during the year are set out on pages 106 and 107.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprising non-executive directors meets regularly with senior management, the external auditors, Operational Risk, Internal Audit, Group Compliance and the Finance division, to consider the nature and scope of the audit reviews and the effectiveness of our risk and control systems.
Further details on the role and responsibility of the Audit Committee can be found in the Investec groups 2008 annual report.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP and Ernst & Young Inc. have indicated their willingness to continue in office as auditors of Investec plc and Investec Limited respectively.
A resolution to reappoint them as auditors will be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting scheduled to take place on 7 August 2008.
Contracts Refer to page 59 for details of contracts with directors.
Subsidiary and associated companies Details of principal subsidiary and associated companies can be found in the Investec groups 2008 annual report.
Major shareholders The largest shareholders of Investec plc and Investec Limited are reflected on page 78.
Special resolutions Investec plc At the Annual General Meeting held on 8 August 2007, special resolutions were passed in terms of which: A renewable authority was granted to Investec plc to acquire its own shares in terms of Section 166 of the Companies Act, 1985.
A renewable authority was granted to Investec plc to allot equity securities of the company for cash without application of the pre-emption rights provided by section 89 of the UK Companies Act, 1985.
An amendment was made to Article 85 of the Articles of Association of Investec plc to reflect the implementation of a policy in accordance with the best practice principles of corporate governance requiring non-executive directors serving more than 9 nine years to seek annual re-election and that all eligible directors retiring by rotation, could offer themselves for re-election.
Investec Limited At the Annual General Meeting held on 8 August 2007, the following special resolutions were passed in terms of which: A renewable authority was granted to Investec Limited and its subsidiaries to acquire its own ordinary and non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating preference shares in terms of Section 85 and 89 of the South African Companies Act No 61 of 1973.
An amendment was made to Article 85 of the Articles of Association of Investec Limited to reflect the implementation of a policy in accordance with the best practice principles of corporate governance requiring non-executive directors serving more than 9 nine years to seek annual re-election and that all eligible directors retiring by rotation, could offer themselves for reelection.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 92 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Summarised directors' report Accounting policies and disclosure Accounting policies are set having regard to commercial practice and comply with applicable United Kingdom and South African law and International Financial Reporting Standards.
Creditor payment policy The group's standard practice is to agree the terms of payment with suppliers at the time of contract and make payments within the agreed credit terms, subject to satisfactory performance.
Employees Our policy is to recruit and promote on the basis of aptitude and ability, without discrimination of any kind.
Applications for employment by disabled people are always considered bearing in mind the qualifications and abilities of the applicants.
In the event of employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure their continued employment.
Our policy is to adopt an open management style, thereby encouraging informal consultation at all levels about aspects of our operations, and motivating staff involvement in our performance by means of employee share schemes.
Donations During the year, Investec plc made donations for charitable purposes, totalling 1.1 million and Investec Limited made donations for charitable purposes, totalling 2.3 million.
Environment We are committed to pursuing sound environmental policies in all aspects of our business and seek to encourage and promote good environmental practice among our employees and within the community in which we operate.
Further information on our sustainability practices can be found on pages 73 to 75 and on our website.
Additional information for shareholders Schedule A to the directors report is a summary of certain provisions of Investec plcs current Articles of Association and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 2006.
David Miller Benita Coetsee Company Secretary Company Secretary Investec plc Investec Limited 17 June 2008 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 93 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Directors' responsibility statement The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the auditors' report set out on page 99, is made with a view to distinguishing for stakeholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the combined consolidated financial statements.
The directors are responsible for the preparation, integrity and objectivity of the combined consolidated financial statements that fairly present the state of affairs of the company and the group at the end of the financial year and the net income and cash flows for the year, and other information contained in this report.
To enable the directors to meet these responsibilities: The board and management set standards and management implements systems of internal controls and accounting and information systems aimed at providing reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and the risk of fraud, error or loss is reduced in a cost effective manner.
These controls, contained in established policies and procedures, include the proper delegation of responsibilities and authorities within a clearly defined framework, effective accounting procedures and adequate segregation of duties: The group's Internal Audit function, which operates unimpeded and independently from operational management, and has unrestricted access to the group Audit Committee, appraises and, when necessary, recommends improvements in the system of internal controls and accounting practices, based on audit plans that take cognisance of the relative degrees of risk of each function or aspect of the business: and The group Audit Committee, together with the Internal Audit department, plays an integral role in matters relating to financial and internal control, accounting policies, reporting and disclosure.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, based on the above, the directors are satisfied that no material breakdown in the operation of the system of internal control and procedures has occurred during the year under review.
The group consistently adopts appropriate and recognised accounting policies and these are supported by reasonable judgements and estimates on a consistent basis and provides additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the group's financial position and financial performance.
The financial statements of the company and the group have been prepared in accordance with the respective Companies Acts of the United Kingdom and South Africa, comply with IFRS and Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
The directors are of the opinion, based on their knowledge of the company, key processes in operation and specific enquiries, that adequate resources exist to support the company on a going concern basis over the next year.
These financial statements have been prepared on that basis.
It is the responsibility of the independent auditors to report on the combined consolidated financial statements.
Their report to the members of the company and group is set out on page 99 of this report.
As far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companies auditors are unaware.
All steps which ought to have been taken as directors have been completed in order to be aware of the relevant audit information and to establish that the companies auditors are aware of that information.
Approval of financial statements The summarised directors report and the financial statements of the company and the group, which appear on pages 90 to 93 and pages 100 to 108 respectively, were approved by the board of directors on 17 June 2008.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companies website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Signed on behalf of the board Stephen Koseff Bernard Kantor Chief Executive Officer Managing Director 17 June 2008 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 94 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Schedule A to the directors' report Additional information for shareholders Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of Investec plc's current Articles of Association the Articles and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 2006, together the Companies Acts.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Acts should be consulted if further information is required.
Certain amendments will be proposed to the Articles at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 7 August 2008.
Authorised share capital The share capital of Investec plc at 17 June 2008 consists of 560 000 000 plc ordinary shares of 0.0002 each, 1 000 000 plc preference shares of 0.01 each, 100 000 000 non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating preference shares of 0.01 each, 277 500 000 plc special converting shares of 0.0002 each, the special voting share of 0.001, the UK DAN share of 0.001 and the UK DAS share of 0.001 each class as defined in the Articles.
Purchase of own shares Subject to the provisions of the Articles, the Companies Act 1985, the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and every other statute for the time being in force concerning companies and affecting Investec plc, the approval of shareholders as provided in the Investec plc's Articles, and without prejudice to any relevant special rights attached to any class of shares, Investec plc may purchase, or may enter into a contract under which it will or may purchase, any of its own shares of any class, including without limitation any redeemable shares, in any way and at any price whether at par or above or below par.
Dividends and distributions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, Investec plc may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the board.
The board may pay interim dividends whenever the financial position of Investec plc, in the opinion of the board, justifies such payment.
The board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of Investec plc's shares from a person with a 0.25 per cent.
or more interest in nominal value of the issued shares if such a person has been served with a notice after failure to provide Investec plc with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Voting rights Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares, at a general meeting, every member present in person has, upon a show of hands, one vote and on a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for each share.
In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote whether in person or by proxy shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members in respect of the share.
Under the Companies Acts members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a member of Investec plc, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A member that is a corporation may appoint an individual to act on its behalf at a general meeting or class meetings as a corporate representative.
The person so authorised shall be entitled to exercise the same powers on behalf of such corporation as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of Investec plc.
Restrictions on voting No member shall be entitled to vote either in person or by proxy at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held by him if any call or other sum then payable by him in respect of that share remains unpaid.
In addition no member shall be entitled to vote if he has been served with a notice after failure to provide Investec plc with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 95 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Schedule A to the directors' report Deadlines for exercising voting rights Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of Investec plc in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representatives.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not more than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Variation of rights Subject to the Companies Acts, the Articles specify that rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate general meeting the quorum shall be two persons or, if there is only one holder, that holder at least holding or representing by proxy at least one third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
Where, under the company's share incentive plan, participants are the beneficial owners of the shares, but not the registered owners, the participants are not entitled to exercise any voting rights until the shares are released to the participants.
Under the company's employee trust, the trustee does not vote in respect of unallocated shares.
Transfer of shares All transfers of shares may be effected by transfer in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the directors.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and except in the case of fully-paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
Transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form are effected by means of the CREST system.
The directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason, refuse to register any transfer of shares not being fully paid shares provided that such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether fully-paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
If the directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer they shall within two months after the date on which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with Investec plc send to the allottee or transferee a notice of the refusal.
The directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer unless the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share and when submitted for registration is accompanied by the relevant share certificates and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably require.
Subject to the Companies Acts and regulations and applicable CREST rules, the directors may determine that any class of shares may be held in uncertificated form and that title to such shares may be transferred by means of the CREST system or that shares of any class should cease to be so held and transferred.
A number of the company's employee share plans include restrictions on transfer of shares while the shares are subject to the plans, in particular, the share incentive plan.
Plc preference shares The following are the rights and privileges which attach to the plc preference shares: to receive a non-cumulative preferential dividend out of the profits of Investec plc in priority to the plc ordinary shares but pari passu with the perpetual preference shares, on such dates in respect of such periods and on such other terms and conditions as may be determined by the directors prior to the allotment thereof: the plc preference shares will rank as regards participation in profits pari passu inter se and with the most senior ranking preference shares of Investec plc in issue if any from time to time and with the perpetual preference shares: on a return of capital, whether or not on a winding up but not on a redemption or purchase of any shares by Investec plc or otherwise, the plc preference shares will rank, pari passu inter se and with the most senior ranking preference shares of Investec plc in issue if any from time to time and with any other shares of Investec plc that are expressed to rank pari passu therewith as regards participation in the capital, and otherwise in priority to any other class of shares of Investec plc: Investec plc may, at its option, redeem all or any of the plc preference shares for the time being issued and outstanding on the first call date or any dividend payment date thereafter: and holders of plc preference shares will not be entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of Investec plc.
Holders will be entitled to attend and vote at a class meeting of holders of plc preference shares.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 96 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Schedule A to the directors' report Non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating preference shares The following are the rights and privileges which attach to the perpetual preference shares: Each perpetual preference share will rank as regards dividends and a repayment of capital on the winding-up of Investec plc prior to the ordinary shares, the plc special converting shares, the UK DAN share, the UK DAS share, but pari passu with the plc preference shares.
The perpetual preference shares shall confer on the holders, on a per perpetual preference share and equal basis, the right to a return of capital on the winding-up of Investec plc of an amount equal to the aggregate of the nominal value and premiums in respect of perpetual preference shares issued divided by the number of perpetual preference shares in issue: Each perpetual preference share may confer upon the holder thereof the right to receive out of the profits of Investec plc which it shall determine to distribute, in priority to the ordinary shares, the plc special converting shares, the UK DAN share and the UK DAS share, but pari passu with the plc preference shares, the preference dividend calculated in accordance with the Articles: The holders of the perpetual preference shares shall be entitled to receive notice of and be present but not to vote, either in person or by proxy, at any meeting of Investec plc, by virtue of or in respect of the perpetual preference shares, unless either or both of the following circumstances prevail as at the date of the meeting: i the preference dividend or any part thereof remains in arrear and unpaid as determined in accordance with Article 150.2 e. ii after six months from the due date thereof: and a resolution of Investec plc is proposed which resolution directly affects the rights attached to the perpetual preference shares or the interests of the holders thereof, or a resolution of Investec plc is proposed to wind up or in relation to the winding-up of Investec plc or for the reduction of its capital, in which event the preference shareholders shall be entitled to vote only on such resolution.
Shares required for the DLC structure Investec SSC UK Limited, a UK trust company, specially formed for the purpose of DLC structure, holds the plc special voting share, the plc special converting shares, the UK DAN share and the UK DAS share.
These shares can only be transferred to another UK trust company, in limited circumstances.
The plc special voting shares are specially created shares so that shareholders of both Investec plc and Investec Limited effectively vote together as a single decision-making body on matters affecting shareholders of both companies in similar ways, as set out in the Articles.
Prior to a change of control, approval of termination of the sharing agreement which regulates the DLC, liquidation or insolvency of Investec plc, the plc special converting shares have no voting rights except in relation to a resolution proposing the i variation of the rights attaching to the shares or ii winding-up, and they have no rights to dividends.
The special converting shares are held on trust for the Investec Limited ordinary shareholders.
Investec plc and Investec Limited have established dividend access trust arrangements as part of the DLC.
Investec plc has issued two dividend access shares, the UK DAS share and UK DAN share which enables Investec plc to pay dividends to the shareholders of Investec Limited.
This facility may be used by the board to address imbalances in the distributable reserves of Investec plc and Investec Limited and or to address the effects of South African exchange controls and or if they otherwise consider it necessary or desirable.
Appointment and replacement of directors Directors shall be no less than four and no more than twenty in number.
A director is not required to hold any shares of Investec plc by way of qualification.
Investec plc may by special resolution increase or reduce the maximum or minimum number of directors.
At each Annual General Meeting held in each year other than 2002 any director who was elected or last re-elected or, if later, deemed in terms of the Articles to have been elected or re-elected a director at or before the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar year before the current year shall retire by rotation.
Any further directors, other than those retiring under any other provision in Investec plc's Articles shall retire by rotation to bring the number retiring by rotation up to one-third of the number of directors in office at the date of the notice of meeting.
Investec plc may by ordinary resolution in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Articles appoint any person to be a director so long as the total number of directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
Any such director shall hold office only until the next Annual General Meeting and shall then be eligible for re-election.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 97 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Schedule A to the directors' report Powers of directors Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts, the CREST regulations and every other statute for the time being in force concerning companies and affecting Investec plc, and any directions given by ordinary or special resolution, the business of Investec plc will be managed by the board who may exercise all the powers of Investec plc.
The board may exercise all the powers of Investec plc to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property, assets and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of Investec plc or of any third party.
Significant agreements: change of control The Articles of Association of both Investec plc and Investec Limited ensure that a person cannot make an offer for one company without having made an equivalent offer to the shareholders of both companies on equivalent terms.
Pursuant to the terms of the agreements establishing the DLC structure, if either Investec plc or Investec Limited serves written notice on the other at any time after either party becomes a subsidiary of the other party or after both Investec plc and Investec Limited become subsidiaries of a third party the agreements establishing the DLC structure will terminate.
All of Investec plc's share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control and, where applicable, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 98 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Independent auditor's report to the members of Investec plc We have examined the group's summary financial statement for the year ended 31 March 2008 on pages 100 to 102 and 104 and 105, which comprise the summary consolidated profit and loss account, summary consolidated balance sheet, summary consolidated cash flow statement, summary consolidated statement of total income and expenses, summary reconciliation of consolidated shareholders' equity and the related note.
This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
To the fullest extent required by the law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the summarised annual report in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within the summarised annual report with the full annual financial statements, the directors' report and directors' remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the summarised annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Basis of opinion We conducted our examination in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 'The auditors' statement on the summary financial statement' issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our report on the company's full annual financial statements describes the basis of our audit opinion on those financial statements and the directors' remuneration report.
Opinion In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with the full annual financial statements, the directors' report and directors' remuneration report, of Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and regulations made thereunder.
We have not considered the effects of any events between the date on which we signed our report on the full annual financial statements 17 June 2008 and the date of this statement.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London 17 June 2008 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 99 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Combined consolidated income statement For the year to 31 March 2008 2007 000 Interest income 2 083 380 1 233 226 Interest expense 1 499 960 889 311 Net interest income 583 420 343 915 Fee and commission income 614 357 577 773 Fee and commission expense 63 061 56 275 Principal transactions 276 705 245 463 Operating income from associates 12 138 10 685 Investment income on assurance activities 89 593 36 821 Premiums and reinsurance recoveries on insurance contracts 40 849 80 542 Other operating income 50 043 49 685 Other income 1 020 624 944 694 Claims and reinsurance premiums on insurance business 120 358 111 492 Total operating income net of insurance claims 1 483 686 1 177 117 Impairment losses on loans and advances 114 185 16 530 Operating income 1 369 501 1 160 587 Administrative expenses 807 500 680 687 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, equipment and intangible assets 24 330 13 315 Operating profit before goodwill 537 671 466 585 Goodwill 62 765 2 569 Operating profit 474 906 469 154 Profit on disposal of group operations 72 855 - Profit before taxation 547 761 469 154 Taxation 127 249 119 781 Profit after taxation 420 512 349 373 Earnings attributable to minority shareholders 28 954 9 054 Earnings attributable to shareholders 391 558 340 319 420 512 349 373 Earnings per share pence - Basic 57.7 54.7 - Diluted 54.0 50.4 Dividends per share pence - Interim 11.5 10.0 - Final 13.5 13.0 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 100 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Combined consolidated balance sheet At 31 March 2008 2007 000 Assets Cash and balances at central banks 788 472 102 751 Loans and advances to banks 2 153 773 2 431 769 Cash equivalent advances to customers 504 382 548 602 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 794 153 2 324 638 Trading securities 1 984 580 2 015 144 Derivative financial instruments 1 305 264 724 492 Investment securities 1 130 872 1 776 601 Loans and advances to customers 14 046 135 9 527 080 Securitised assets 6 082 975 831 742 Interests in associated undertakings 82 576 70 332 Deferred taxation assets 84 493 59 394 Other assets 882 209 1 420 681 Property and equipment 141 352 131 505 Investment properties 134 975 85 424 Goodwill 271 932 195 883 Intangible assets 31 506 35 829 30 419 649 22 281 867 Financial instruments at fair value through income in respect of - liabilities to customers 2 878 894 3 024 997 - assets related to reinsurance contracts 805 009 992 824 34 103 552 26 299 688 Liabilities Deposits by banks 3 489 032 2 347 095 Deposits by banks - Kensington warehouse funding 1 778 438 - Derivative financial instruments 881 577 509 919 Other trading liabilities 450 580 321 863 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 382 384 1 765 671 Customer accounts 12 133 120 10 650 102 Debt securities in issue 777 769 1 253 752 Liabilities arising on securitisation 5 760 208 826 627 Current taxation liabilities 132 656 113 967 Deferred taxation liabilities 79 172 48 048 Other liabilities 1 279 373 1 778 488 Pension fund liabilities - 1 467 27 144 309 19 616 999 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 2 862 916 3 004 254 Insurance liabilities, including unit-linked liabilities 15 978 20 743 Reinsured liabilities 805 009 992 824 30 828 212 23 634 820 Subordinated liabilities including convertible debt 1 065 321 844 452 31 893 533 24 479 272 Equity Called up share capital 177 169 Share premium 1 360 450 1 129 859 Treasury shares 114 904 109 279 Equity portion of convertible debentures 2 191 2 191 Perpetual preference shares 272 335 292 173 Other reserves 42 057 40 545 Profit and loss account 433 012 186 827 Shareholders' equity excluding minority interests 1 911 204 1 542 485 Minority interests 298 815 277 931 - Perpetual preferred securities issued by subsidiaries 251 637 241 081 - Minority interests in partially held subsidiaries 47 178 36 850 Total equity 2 210 019 1 820 416 Total liabilities and shareholders' equity 34 103 552 26 299 688 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 101 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Combined consolidated statement of total recognised income and expenses For the year to 31 March 2008 2007 000 Profit after taxation 420 512 349 373 Total gains and losses recognised directly in equity 110 879 175 030 Fair value movements on available for sale assets 38 907 12 287 Foreign currency movements 79 591 184 847 Pension fund actuarial gains losses 7 619 2 470 Total recognised income and expenses 309 633 174 343 Total recognised income and expenses attributable to minority shareholders 17 365 29 931 Total recognised income and expenses attributable to ordinary shareholders 270 327 225 114 Total recognised income and expenses attributable to perpetual preferred securities 21 941 20 840 309 633 174 343 Combined consolidated cash flow statement For the year to 31 March 2008 2007 000 Operating profit adjusted for non cash items 708 295 524 434 Taxation paid 97 845 122 881 Increase in operating assets 655 805 6 265 563 Increase in operating liabilities 1 080 433 5 858 320 Net cash inflow outflow from operating activities 1 035 078 5 690 Cash flow on acquisition of subsidiaries 32 419 151 402 Cash flow on net acquisition of associates 1 563 29 Cash flow on acquisition and disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 31 660 26 821 Net cash outflow from investing activities 65 642 178 252 Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders 145 926 112 592 Dividends paid to other equity holders 45 702 38 649 Proceeds on issue of shares, net of related costs 8 630 90 980 Proceeds on issue of other equity instruments 6 777 134 503 Proceeds on subordinated debt raised 209 871 356 229 Repayment of subordinated debt 88 543 - Net cash outflow inflow from financing activities 54 893 430 471 Effects of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 97 791 301 588 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 816 752 55 059 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1 135 124 1 190 183 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 1 951 876 1 135 124 Cash and cash equivalents is defined as including: Cash and balances at central banks 788 472 102 751 On demand loans and advances to banks 659 022 483 771 Cash equivalent advances to customers 504 382 548 602 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 1 951 876 1 135 124 Includes equity instruments issued by subsidiaries.
Note: cash and cash equivalents have a maturity profile of less than three months.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 102 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Accounting policies Basis of presentation The group financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union EU which comply with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
At 31 March 2008, IFRS standards as endorsed by the EU are identical to current IFRSs applicable to the group.
The group financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for investment properties, available for sale investments, derivative financial instruments, financial assets and financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss, and pension fund surpluses and deficits that have been measured at fair value.
Accounting policies applied are consistent with those of the prior year.
Basis of consolidation Investec consists of two separate legal entities, being Investec plc and Investec Limited, that operate under a dual listed company DLC structure.
The effect of the DLC structure is that Investec plc and its subsidiaries and Investec Limited and its subsidiaries operate together as a single economic entity, with neither assuming a dominant role and accordingly are reported as a single reporting entity under IFRS.
All subsidiaries and special purpose vehicles in which the group holds more than one half of the voting rights or over which it has the ability to control either directly or in substance are consolidated from the effective dates of acquisition that is from when control exists and up to the effective dates of loss of control, except entities which are classified as non-current assets held for sale.
Subsidiaries classified as non-current assets held for sale are consolidated as discontinued operations.
Entities, other than subsidiary undertakings, in which the group exercises significant influence over operating and financial policies, are treated as associates.
In the group accounts, associates are accounted for using the equity method from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases, except as noted below.
The combined consolidated financial statements include the attributable share of the results and reserves of associated undertakings.
The group's interests in associated undertakings are included in the consolidated balance sheet at the group's share of net assets of the associate plus goodwill arising on acquisition, less any impairment recognised.
In circumstances where associates or joint venture holdings arise in which the group has no strategic intention, these investments are classified as venture capital holdings and are designated as held at fair value through profit and loss.
All intergroup balances, transactions and unrealised gains and losses within the group are eliminated to the extent that they do not reflect an impairment to the asset.
The purpose of the staff share schemes is to promote an 'esprit fide corps' within the organisation, create an awareness of Investec's performance and provide an incentive to maximise individual and group performance by allowing all staff to share in the risks and rewards of the group.
Further information on the group share options and long-term incentive plans are provided on pages 61 to 63 of the remuneration report.
Expense charged to the income statement included in administrative expenses : Equity settled 39 182 27 568 Cash settled 418 408 Total income statement charge 39 600 27 976 Liabilities on cash settled options Total liability included in other liabilities 6 121 Total fair value for vested appreciation rights 13 390 Weighted average fair value of options granted in the year UK schemes 25 239 43 616 South African schemes 28 509 34 618 At 31 March UK schemes South African schemes 2008 2007 2008 2007 Number Weighted Number Weighted Number Weighted Number Weighted of share average of share average of share average of share average options exercise options exercise options exercise options exercise price price price price ZAR ZAR Details of options outstanding during the year Outstanding at the beginning of the year 29 029 906 0.84 27 875 005 1.27 30 542 346 14.02 34 131 575 20.95 Granted during the year 7 290 269 0.26 7 640 248 0.54 7 601 180 - 6 627 281 - Exercised during the year 5 790 043 1.63 5 198 882 2.13 7 433 770 30.30 8 457 472 30.20 Expired during the year 2 225 861 0.86 1 286 465 3.24 1 791 950 7.63 1 759 038 18.50 Outstanding at the end of the year 28 304 271 0.53 29 029 906 0.84 28 917 806 6.55 30 542 346 14.02 Exercisable at the end of the year 910 733 2.98 1 059 148 3.11 2 538 170 39.69 3 355 132 39.73 Weighted average share price during the year was 5.45 2007: 5.81.
The expense charged to the income statement in respect of equity settled options included 1 363 774 2007: 726 405 expensed by IdaTech plc, a private equity direct investment.
Full details of IdaTech plcs share based payments are included in their 2007 annual report.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 106 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Notes to the financial statements Share based payments continued The exercise price range and weighted average remaining contractual life for the options are as follows: For the year to 31 March UK schemes South African schemes 2008 2007 2008 2007 Options with strike prices Exercise price range 1.55 - 6.52 1.55 - 6.11 R20.28 - R57.60 R20.28 - R57.60 Weighted average remaining contractual life 3.12 years 2.62 years 2.33 years 2.22 years Long term incentive grants with no strike price Exercise price range 0 0 R0 R0 Weighted average remaining contractual life 3.21 years 3.43 years 3.34 years 3.82 years The fair values of options granted were calculated using a Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The expected attrition rates used were determined based on historical group data, with an adjustment to actual attrition on final vesting.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 107 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Notes to the financial statements Dividends and earnings per share Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2008 2007 Ordinary dividends - pence per share Interim 11.5 10.0 Final 13.5 13.0 25.0 23.0 Earnings '000 '000 Earnings attributable to shareholders' 391 558 340 319 Preference dividends paid 41 779 31 850 Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 349 779 308 469 Earnings resulting from future dilutive convertible instruments 736 974 Diluted earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 350 515 309 443 Weighted number of shares in issue Weighted total average number of shares in issue during the year 640 059 998 602 052 096 Weighted average number of treasury shares 33 894 292 38 269 412 Weighted average number of shares in issue during the year 606 165 706 563 782 684 Weighted average number of shares resulting from future dilutive potential shares 35 390 062 41 146 215 Weighted average number of shares resulting from future dilutive convertible instruments 7 489 820 8 787 292 Adjusted weighted number of shares potentially in issue 649 045 588 613 716 191 Earnings per share - pence Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the ordinary shareholders in Investec plc and Investec Limited by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
57.7 54.7 Diluted earnings per share - pence Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the ordinary shareholders of Investec plc and Investec Limited, adjusted for the effects of dilutive ordinary potential shares, by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of the dilutive ordinary potential shares during the period.
54.0 50.4 Adjusted earnings per share - pence Adjusted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings before goodwill and non-operating items attributable to the ordinary shareholders and after taking into account earnings attributable to perpetual preference shareholders, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
56.9 53.3 '000 '000 Earnings attributable to shareholders 391 558 340 319 Goodwill 62 765 2 569 Profit on disposal of group operations, net of taxation 64 345 - Preference dividends paid 41 779 31 850 Additional earnings attributable to other equity holders 3 504 5 196 Adjusted earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders before goodwill and non-operating items 344 695 300 704 In accordance with IFRS, dividends attributable to equity holders is accounted for when a constructive liability arises, i. e. on declaration by the board of directors and approval by the shareholders, where required.
Investec is of the view that earnings per share EPS is best reflected by adjusting for earnings that are attributed to equity instruments other than ordinary shares on an accrual basis and therefore adjusts the paid dividend on such instruments to accrued in arriving at adjusted EPS.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 108 Definitions Definitions Adjusted shareholders equity Shareholders equity inclusive of goodwill and compulsorily convertible debentures, excluding preference shares.
Core loans and advances Refer to calculation on page 29. Dividend cover Adjusted earnings per ordinary share before goodwill and non-operating items divided by dividends per ordinary share.
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders before Refer to page108.
goodwill and non-operating items Adjusted earnings per ordinary share before goodwill and Refer to page 108. non-operating items Effective operational tax rate Tax on profit on ordinary activities excluding exceptional items divided by operating profit excluding profit from associates and Assurance Activities.
Operating profit per employee Operating profit excluding income from associates divided by the average number of employees in the group.
Return on average adjusted shareholders' equity Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders before goodwill and non-operating items divided by average adjusted shareholders equity.
Refer to calculation on page 108.
2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 109 Contact details Contact details Australia, Brisbane Hong Kong Level 31 Riparian Plaza 71 Eagle Street 2106 - 2108 Jardine House 1 Connaught Place Brisbane QLD 4000 Australia Central Hong Kong Telephone 61 7 3018 8100 Telephone 852 2861 6888 Facsimile 61 7 3018 8108 Facsimile 852 2861 6861 e-mail australia@investec.
com 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 110 Contact details Contact details South Africa, Johannesburg Switzerland, Geneva 100 Grayston Drive Sandown Sandton 2196 3 Place des Bergues PO Box 785700 Sandton 2146 1201 Geneva Switzerland Telephone 27 11 286 7000 Telephone 41 22 807 2000 Facsimile 27 11 286 7777 Facsimile 41 22 807 2005 e-mail, South African offices e-mail enquiries@investectrust.
5 Corporate Corner 21 Murray Street Taipei 110 Taiwan Nelspruit 1200 Telephone 886 2 8101 0800 Telephone 27 13 752 6378 Facsimile 886 2 8101 0900 Facsimile 27 13 752 6406 South Africa, Stellenbosch fide Wagenweg Office Park Stellentian Avenue Stellenbosch 7600 Telephone 27 21 809 0700 Facsimile 27 21 809 0730 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 111 Notes Notes 2008 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 112
