Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Schedule A to the directors' report Non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating preference shares The following are the rights and privileges which attach to the perpetual preference shares: Each perpetual preference share will rank as regards dividends and a repayment of capital on the winding-up of Investec plc prior to the ordinary shares, the plc special converting shares, the UK DAN share, the UK DAS share, but pari passu with the plc preference shares.
The perpetual preference shares shall confer on the holders, on a per perpetual preference share and equal basis, the right to a return of capital on the winding-up of Investec plc of an amount equal to the aggregate of the nominal value and premiums in respect of perpetual preference shares issued divided by the number of perpetual preference shares in issue: Each perpetual preference share may confer upon the holder thereof the right to receive out of the profits of Investec plc which it shall determine to distribute, in priority to the ordinary shares, the plc special converting shares, the UK DAN share and the UK DAS share, but pari passu with the plc preference shares, the preference dividend calculated in accordance with the Articles: The holders of the perpetual preference shares shall be entitled to receive notice of and be present but not to vote, either in person or by proxy, at any meeting of Investec plc, by virtue of or in respect of the perpetual preference shares, unless either or both of the following circumstances prevail as at the date of the meeting: i the preference dividend or any part thereof remains in arrear and unpaid as determined in accordance with Article 150.2 e. ii after six months from the due date thereof: and a resolution of Investec plc is proposed which resolution directly affects the rights attached to the perpetual preference shares or the interests of the holders thereof, or a resolution of Investec plc is proposed to wind up or in relation to the winding-up of Investec plc or for the reduction of its capital, in which event the preference shareholders shall be entitled to vote only on such resolution.
Shares required for the DLC structure Investec SSC UK Limited, a UK trust company, specially formed for the purpose of DLC structure, holds the plc special voting share, the plc special converting shares, the UK DAN share and the UK DAS share.
These shares can only be transferred to another UK trust company, in limited circumstances.
The plc special voting shares are specially created shares so that shareholders of both Investec plc and Investec Limited effectively vote together as a single decision-making body on matters affecting shareholders of both companies in similar ways, as set out in the Articles.
Prior to a change of control, approval of termination of the sharing agreement which regulates the DLC, liquidation or insolvency of Investec plc, the plc special converting shares have no voting rights except in relation to a resolution proposing the i variation of the rights attaching to the shares or ii winding-up, and they have no rights to dividends.
The special converting shares are held on trust for the Investec Limited ordinary shareholders.
Investec plc and Investec Limited have established dividend access trust arrangements as part of the DLC.
Investec plc has issued two dividend access shares, the UK DAS share and UK DAN share which enables Investec plc to pay dividends to the shareholders of Investec Limited.
This facility may be used by the board to address imbalances in the distributable reserves of Investec plc and Investec Limited and or to address the effects of South African exchange controls and or if they otherwise consider it necessary or desirable.
Appointment and replacement of directors Directors shall be no less than four and no more than twenty in number.
A director is not required to hold any shares of Investec plc by way of qualification.
Investec plc may by special resolution increase or reduce the maximum or minimum number of directors.
At each Annual General Meeting held in each year other than 2002 any director who was elected or last re-elected or, if later, deemed in terms of the Articles to have been elected or re-elected a director at or before the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar year before the current year shall retire by rotation.
Any further directors, other than those retiring under any other provision in Investec plc's Articles shall retire by rotation to bring the number retiring by rotation up to one-third of the number of directors in office at the date of the notice of meeting.
Investec plc may by ordinary resolution in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Articles appoint any person to be a director so long as the total number of directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
Any such director shall hold office only until the next Annual General Meeting and shall then be eligible for re-election.
