Statement of Accounting Policies for The BSS Group plc Company Accounts Basis of Accounting Leases and Hire Purchase Contracts The accounts have been prepared under UK GAAP using the Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the profit and historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies loss account on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards.
Assets held under finance leases are included in fixed assets at their The accounting policies adopted in these accounts are consistent fair value at the inception of the lease.
Finance charges are amortised with those used in previous years, except where new standards have over each lease term to give a constant rate of charge on the been adopted.
remaining balance of the lease obligation.
Financial instruments: Disclosures became effective from 1 January Borrowings 2007.
As the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Borrowings are carried at their issue proceeds net of finance costs, accordance with IFRS 7, the Company is exempt from the disclosure less amounts repaid.
Finance costs are allocated over the term of the requirements of FRS 29. borrowings.
Investments Share-based benefits Investments in subsidiary undertakings are included in the financial The Group operates various share option schemes.
The value of the statements at the lower of cost or net realised value.
In accordance employee services is determined by reference to the fair value of the with FRS 11, the Company performs impairment reviews where there options granted using the Black-Scholes valuation model.
This value is an indication that the carrying amount of fixed asset investments is then expensed in the profit and loss account in the period between may not be recoverable.
Where it is established that an asset has grant date and vesting date vesting period.
At each balance sheet been impaired, then an amount equal to the impairment is charged date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options to the profit and loss account in the year of impairment.
Deferred Tax Any net proceeds are credited to equity when the options are Provision is made for deferred taxation in so far as a liability or asset exercised.
arose as a result of transactions that had occurred by the balance sheet date and gave rise to an obligation to pay more tax in the future, Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities or a right to pay less tax in the future with the following exception: The Company also enters into derivative financial instrument and Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the hedging activities for which the policy is the same as the Group as Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be set out on page 40. suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an Cash flow statement undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the The Company has not prepared a cash flow statement as its cash periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and flows are included in the Group Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Pension Schemes Contributions to the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are charged in accordance with the advice of the Groups actuaries, so as to spread the cost of pensions over the anticipated service lives of scheme members.
Actuarial surpluses and deficits are spread forward over the average remaining service lives of scheme members.
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 71
