Information for shareholders Company Calendar Final results announcement 28 May 2008 Record date for final dividend 27 June 2008 Annual General Meeting 24 July 2008 Final dividend payment date 25 July 2008 3 pm at the Financial year end 31 March 2008 Marriott Hotel, Leicester Shareholder Analysis at 31 March 2008 By size of holding No.
of Shares % Private Shareholders 1,091 67.98% 5,768,567 4.696% Deceased Accounts 7 0.44% 24,924 0.020% Insurance Companies 1 0.06% 14,886 0.012% Investment Trusts 1 0.06% 4 Pension Funds 1 0.06% 2,400,767 1.954% Nominee Companies 450 28.04% 111,340,322 90.622% Limited Companies 28 1.74% 1,275,651 1.038% Bank & Bank Nominees 11 0.69% 1,522,310 1.239% Other Institutions 15 0.93% 514,829 0.419% 1,605 100.00% 122,862,260 100.00% Shareholders Services and Helpline Dividend Re-Investment Plan Confirmation of these details will be contained Shareholders who change address, want to You can choose to invest your cash dividends in a dividend tax voucher, which is posted to have their dividends paid direct into their bank in purchasing BSS Group shares in the market shareholders registered addresses at the time account, have a query on their shares, or under the terms of Capita IRG Trustees Ltd of payment.
This voucher should be kept for otherwise require information about their holding Dividend Re-Investment Plan.
should contact our Registrars, Capita, on the information on the Plan and how to join please shareholder information telephone line: call on 0870 162 3181 or email Capita at Gifting Shares to Charity 0870 162 3100.
Alternatively, they can email shares@capitaregistrars.
If you have a small holding of BSS Group shares, ssd@capitaregistrars.
com or write to Capita you may wish to consider gifting them to charity.
Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Duplicate Share Register Accounts You can do so through ShareGift, run by a Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield, West Yorkshire HD8 If you are receiving more than one copy of our registered charity, Orr Mackintosh Foundation 0LA indicating that they are a BSS Group plc Annual Report, it may be that your shares are Ltd. Shares gifted are re-registered into the name shareholder.
registered in two or more accounts on the of charity, combined with other donated shares register of members.
If that was not your intention and then sold through stockbrokers who charge Shareholders are now able to access their you might consider merging them into one single no commission.
The proceeds are distributed to a shareholding at entry.
Please contact Capita Registrars who will wide range of recognised charities.
be pleased to carry out your instructions.
details, contact Capita Registrars or approach ShareGift directly on www.
org sharegift Capita offers a simple and easy-to-use service Dividend Mandates or telephone them on 020 7337 0501. for our private shareholders to buy and sell Using BACS, shareholders may have dividends shares either by calling 0870 458 4577 Monday paid electronically into their bank or building to Friday 8 am to 4.30 pm or at society account.
This ensures that the amount https: sharedealing.
com of the dividend is passed into their account, as cleared funds, on the date the payment is due.
76 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Group at a Glance Domestic p8 Industrial p11 Specialist p13 Trevor The BSS Group plc is a leading distributor to BSS Ireland Ltd. specialist trades.
Our customers are industrial contractors, domestic plumbers and heating engineers, independent 337.2m Revenue 111.7m Revenue 840.1m Revenue merchants and industrial end users 25.1m Operating Profit 2.9m Operating Profit 42.1m Operating Profit Our branch based, sales focused approach, 7.44% Margin 2.60% Margin 5.01% Margin supported by excellent nationwide logistics, ensures we deliver constantly high levels of customer service Branch locator Our branches Brierley Hill Fakenham Maidstone Skegness Nationwide Brighton Falkirk Malvern Slough Bristol Fareham Manchester South Shields Bulford Contract Farnborough Mansfield Southall Burgess Hill Folkestone Marlborough Southampton Domestic Industrial Specialist Burnley Frome Medway Southend The domestic heating, plumbing and The industrial, commercial and process Buck & Hickman is one of the UKs leading Burton Gateshead Middlesbrough Southport sanitaryware markets are serviced through industry, construction and maintenance distributors of Tools, Maintenance and Health Bury Glasgow Milton Keynes Spalding Camberley Gloucester Morecambe Stafford PTS Plumbing Trade Supplies which has markets are serviced through BSS Industrial & Safety products.
With a stocked range of Cambridge Grantham Nelson Stirling 276 merchandising branches nationwide and which has 60 branches in the UK and over 60,000 products Buck & Hickman offers Cannock Grimsby Newbury Stockport a planned schedule of new branch openings.
Customers are serviced across customers a complete one-stop shop solution Canterbury Guildford Newcastle Stockton We supply a wide range of customers, from all industrial sectors.
for all their needs with the entire product Cardiff Hailsham Newhaven Stoke national contractors to the sole trading plumber range covered by a 2,300 page catalogue.
Carlisle Halesowen Newmarket Sunderland and heating engineers.
Specialist teams provide technical sales The product range includes 23,000 items Carmarthen Halifax Newport Swansea support and a nationwide branch network which are marketed under Buck & Hickmans Chelmsford Harrow Newquay Swindon Cheltenham Hartlepool Newry Tamworth Our central buying teams work closely with is supported by a Central Logistics team as Roebuck own-brand.
Buck & Hickman Chessington Haslemere Newtown Teddington leading manufacturers, so that we can offer well as a National Distribution Centre based offers a range of industry leading value added Chester Hastings Northampton Telford our customers the latest product innovations at Lutterworth, Leicestershire, which provides solutions including Vendor Managed Inventory Chesterfield Hatfield Northfleet Tonbridge and the best range of market leading brands daily delivery services to all branches.
Buck & Hickman operates BSS Aberdeen Chichester Haverford West Norwich Torquay at competitive prices.
We are committed to 25 branches nationwide and customers Birchwood Abingdon Chippenham Haverhill Nottingham Tottenham providing our customers with an outstanding The National Tube Distribution Centre Big can also order products online at Buck & Hickman Aldridge Chorley Hawick Nuneaton Truro programme of promotions which are run Pipe at Coventry opened in August 2007 and www.
F& P Wholesale Alnwick Christchurch Hayes Oldham Tunbridge Wells Electronic Voting They can be very persistent and extremely If you have any further queries, you can contact Jebbs Altrincham Cirencester Haywards Heath Openshaw Tyne Tunnel throughout the year.
With five Regional offers a unique solution for linear distribution.
If you would like to submit your form of proxy persuasive and a 2006 survey by the Financial Capita Registrars on 0871 664 0300 Price Tools Andover Coatbridge Helston Orpington Uckfield Distribution Centres PTS is able to offer an It is designed to store linear products and is Price Tools is a wholesaler of power tools electronically via the internet go to Services Authority FSA has reported that the calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras PTS Ashford Colchester Hemel Hempstead Oswestry Wadebridge unrivalled local level of service backed up by supported by a fleet of articulated vehicles.
and accessories, hand tools, safety wear Ashington Congleton Hereford Oxford Wakefield www.
com, click on Investor Relations, average amount lost by investors is around a national support network.
At local level the At any one time it offers around 398 product and general consumables to established Ashton-under-Lyne Cork Hinckley Paisley Walsall select AGM and then select Form of Proxy.
It is not just the novice investor that Registered Office branches provide a fast and efficient delivery options of tube in stainless and carbon steel, dealers across sectors covering both trade Attleborough Coventry Hitchin Perth Warrington You will be asked to enter your name and the has been duped in this way: many of the victims Fleet House service either direct to the site where the plastic, cast iron and copper as well as a and industry.
The well established Midlands Austell Crawley Hoddesdon Peterborough Washington investor code, which is printed on your form of had been successfully investing for several years.
Lee Circle Aylesbury equipment is to be installed or to the range of ancillary products.
based distributor offers a complete service Crayford Honiton Plymouth Watford proxy, and agree, to certain terms and conditions.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any Leicester Ayr Crewe Horsham Pontypridd West Bromwich customers business premises.
Everyday including next day delivery across the UK, unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a LE1 3QQ Banbury Cumbernauld Huddersfield Poole West Drayton plumbing and heating products are available Specialist brands Pegler & Louden, Austin technical advice and repairs from a fully Unsolicited Mail discount or offers of free company reports.
Registered Number: 60987 England Bangor Cwmbran Hull Port Talbot West Midlands direct from the local branch or can be ordered Stroud, Havelock Controls and Manor Plastics equipped workshop.
As the Companys share register is, by law, open If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Barking Dagenham Huyton Portsmouth Wigan for next day delivery.
enhance our service offering to the industrial to public inspection, shareholders may receive Registrars Make sure you get the correct name of the Barnsley Dalkeith Inverness Preston Wirral repair, maintenance and improvement RMI Birchwood Products is a designer and global unsolicited mail from organisations that use it Capita Registrars Basildon Darlington Ipswich Ramsgate Wisbech person and organisation: and Merchant heating, plumbing and sanitaryware markets.
AMS Pumps, our specialist pumps importer of equipment for construction and as a mailing list.
Shareholders wishing to limit Northern House Basingstoke Dartford Irvine Reading Wishaw Check that they are properly authorised by the is supplied through F & P Wholesale with brand, was recently awarded Pump related industries, primarily focused on the the amount of such mail should write to the Woodsome Park Bath Derby Keighley Redditch Witney FSA before getting involved.
You can check at Bedford Diss Kendal Redhill Wokingham Mailing Preference Society, Freepost 22, Fenay Bridge 10 distribution centres providing nationwide Distributor of the Year.
uk register Bedminster Doncaster Kettering Ripon Wolverhampton London W1E 7EZ.
The needs of independent plumbers has a reputation for creating innovative product Belfast Dronfield Kilmarnock Rochdale Worcester West Yorkshire merchants and appliance outlets are serviced solutions under the brand names of Scruffs, On their website, the FSA also maintain a list of Bellshill Dublin Kirkcaldy Romford Workington Warning to Shareholders HD8 0LA through daily deliveries, competitive pricing Van Vault, Defender, Rhino and U-GO.
unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, Birkenhead Dumbarton Leamington Spa Rotherham Worksop Over the last year or so many companies have or have targeted, UK investors, and any and F & Ps own brands of Pro and Fresssh Birchwoods customers include tool hire, Birmingham Dumfries Leeds Rugby Worthing become aware that their shareholders have approach from such organisations should be Bathrooms.
Within each centre there is a builders merchants, electrical wholesalers Bishop Auckland Dundee Leicester Rutherglen Wrexham received unsolicited phone calls or reported to the FSA so that this list can be kept Blackburn Dunfermline Lewes Rye Yate team of knowledgeable staff ready to assist and tool retailers.
up to date and any other appropriate action can Blackpool Durham Lincoln St. Albans Yeovil customers with order and product queries.
These are typically from overseas based brokers be considered.
If you deal with an unauthorised Bognor Regis Dyce Lisburn Salisbury York The product ranges held at each location pre exceptional and intangible amortisation Cover image Image above who target UK shareholders offering to sell them Bolton East Kilbride Liverpool Scarborough firm, you would not be eligible to receive Malcolm Davies Trevor Stevens have been tailored to meet local requirements.
what often turn out to be worthless or high risk Borehamwood Eastbourne Livingston Scawsby payment under the Financial Services Branch Manager Warehouseperson shares in US or UK investments.
Boston Edinburgh London Scunthorpe Compensation Scheme.
PTS Northfleet F & P Bedford Bournemouth Ellesmere Port Londonderry Selby Bracknell Enniskillen Loughborough Sheffield Inside cover image Back cover image Bradford Epsom Luton Shoreham Michael Cox Gary Staniford Design, photography and production Printed by Taylor Bloxham Bridgwater Exeter Macclesfield Shrewsbury Senior Warehouseperson Trade Counter This Business Review contains certain forward looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results, operations and businesses of The BSS Group plc.
The Smiths Partnership LLP T 0116 234 2600 F & P Bedford Warehouseperson These statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that occur in the future.
co. uk BSS Kings Cross of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward looking statements.
com The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Fleet House T 44 0 116 262 3232 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Lee Circle F 44 0 116 253 1343 Leicester LE1 3QQ E reception@bssgroup.
co. uk bss Pace, Passion and Enthusiasm Gary Malcolm 01 Facts and Figures 22 Board of Directors 39 Consolidated Cash Flow 03 Chairmans Statement 23 Report of the Directors Statement 05 Key Performance Indicators 25 The Combined Code 40 Statement of Accounting 07 Business Review 29 Directors Responsibilities Policies Group Chief Executive 30 Report of the Remuneration 43 Notes to the Accounts 08 Domestic Division Committee 69 Independent Auditors Report 11 Industrial Division 36 Independent Auditors Report 70 Company Balance Sheet 13 Specialist Division 37 Consolidated Income Statement 71 Statement of Accounting Policies 15 Financial Review 37 Consolidated Statement of 72 Notes to the Companys Accounts 18 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Recognised Income and Expense 75 Five Year Summary 19 Corporate Responsibility Report 38 Consolidated Balance Sheet 76 Information for shareholders
