Statement of Accounting Policies for The BSS Group plc Group accounts Basis of Preparation Revenue recognition These financial statements have been prepared in accordance Revenue represents the value of goods and services sold arising in with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRIC the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland excluding intra-group interpretations in issue and with those parts of the Companies sales and value added tax.
Revenue is recognised when the risks Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
and rewards of ownership of the goods has been transferred to the customer.
The risks and rewards of ownership of the goods are The following interpretations to existing standards have been deemed to have been transferred when the goods are despatched published that are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods to, or picked up by, the customer.
beginning on or after 1 April 2007 and have been adopted in the financial statements for the first time this year.
Functional currency With the exception of BSS Ireland Limited, who conduct business in IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, and the complementary the Republic of Ireland, the principal place of operation is the United amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements Capital Kingdom.
Consequently the financial statements are presented in disclosures and IFRS 8, Operating Segments were adopted for the GBP Pounds Sterling.
IFRS 7 introduces new disclosures relating to financial instruments and IFRS 8, which was Foreign currency translation early adopted, introduces new disclosures relating to the operating The monetary assets and liabilities of BSS Ireland Limited are segments of the Group.
These standards do not have a material translated at the closing rate at the balance sheet date and its income impact on the Groups accounts.
and expenses at the average rate for the year.
Differences arising from these translations are recognised as a separate component of equity IFRIC 10, Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment, effective for in the consolidated financial statements.
annual periods beginning on or after 1 November 2006.
IFRIC 10 prohibits the impairment losses recognised in an interim period on Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities goodwill and investments in equity instruments and in financial assets The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to carried at cost to be reversed at a subsequent balance sheet date.
interest rate and foreign exchange risks arising from financing activities.
The application of the standard has had no material impact on the Groups accounts.
Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair value of the derivative financial instruments is the estimated amount the Group IFRIC 11 'IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions', effective would receive or pay to terminate the derivative at the balance sheet for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007.
IFRIC 11 date, taking into account current interest and exchange rates and the provides guidance on whether share-based transactions involving current credit-worthiness of the counterparties.
treasury shares or involving group entities for instance, options over a parent's shares should be accounted for as equity-settled or cashChanges in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, that are settled share-based payment transactions.
The application of the designated and effective as hedges of the future variability of cash standard has had no material impact on the Groups accounts.
flows, are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not yet been applied by the For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value of Group were in issue but not yet effective or authorised by the a hedged item, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value European Union.
attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in the income statement.
IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements, IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs, IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains Separate Financial Statements, IFRS 2 Revised Share-based or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken to the income payment: Vesting conditions and cancellations, IFRS 3 Revised statement as they arise.
Business Combinations, IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements, IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes and IFRIC Foreign currency forward contracts are not designated effective 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding hedges and so are marked to market at the balance sheet date, Requirements and their interaction.
These standards are not thought with any gains or losses being taken through the income statement.
to have a significant impact on the Groups accounts.
The Group does not enter into speculative derivative contracts.
A summary of the principal Group accounting policies are set out below and in the notes to the financial statements.
These policies Financial assets and financial liabilities have been consistently applied to all periods presented unless Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: otherwise stated.
financial assets at fair value through profit and loss FVTPL, availablefor-sale AFS financial assets and loans and receivables.
The The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial convention as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
liabilities and share based payments at fair value through profit and loss.
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at FVTPL In preparing the financial statements set out on the previous pages, or other financial liabilities.
the Group has complied with the UK Listing Authority requirements and has presented a comparative balance sheet at 31 March 2007.
The Group has defined the classes of financial assets and financial liabilities to be other financial assets, loans and receivables including Basis of Consolidation cash, borrowings, derivative financial instruments and trade and The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of The BSS Group other payables.
plc and all its subsidiaries at 31 March 2008.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of the subsidiaries by the Group.
Subsidiary trading results are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
40 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 a Financial assets and financial liabilities at FVTPL of the asset and is provided at the following rates: Financial assets and financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL where the financial asset or financial liability is either held for trading or Freehold land Nil it is designated as a FVTPL.
Freehold properties and long leasehold Lesser of 2% of cost or over the lease term A financial asset or financial liability is classified as held for trading if: Short leasehold properties It has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling or of tenants improvements 10% of cost disposal in the near future: or Plant, vehicles and other equipment 10% to 35% of cost It is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of shortThe assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted term profit taking: or if appropriate at each balance sheet date.
It is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs specifically and directly attributable to the acquisition Financial assets and financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair or construction of assets that necessarily take a substantial period of value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the income time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost statement unless it is an effective cash flow relationship.
The net gain of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready or loss recognised in the income statement incorporates any interest for their intended use or sale.
earned or paid on the financial asset and financial liability respectively.
Intangible assets b Loans and receivables a Goodwill Trade receivables and other receivables that have fixed or determinable Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised acquired subsidiary associate at the date of acquisition.
If the cost of cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
short-term receivables which applies to all amounts owed to the Group when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cashc Other financial liabilities generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured of the goodwill is made to the lowest level of cash-generating units or at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are group of cash-generating units which are monitored by management subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest and benefit from the acquisition on which the goodwill arose.
method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold not previously written relevant period.
The effective interest is the rate that exactly discounts off to reserves.
estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or where appropriate a shorter period.
b Computer software Costs that are directly associated with the development of identifiable d Derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities and unique software products that will probably generate economic The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual benefits for the Group beyond one year, are recognised as intangible rights to the cash flows from the asset expire: or it transfers the assets.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and acquired computer software licences are amortised over their of the asset to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains estimated useful lives three to five years and is provided at between substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to 20% and 33% of cost.
control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have c Acquired assets to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of Intangible assets identified as part of the assets of an acquired ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to business are capitalised separately from goodwill if the fair value can recognise the financial asset and also recognise a collateralised be measured reliably on initial recognition.
Intangible assets are borrowing for the proceeds received.
The Group derecognises amortised to the income statement over the useful life of the assets financial liabilities when the Groups obligations are discharged, acquired except where they are considered to have an indefinite cancelled or they expire.
All acquired intangible assets are reviewed annually for impairment and whenever there is an indication that the asset may Leases be impaired.
Assets acquired under finance leases, where substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership are transferred to the Group, are Employee benefit costs capitalised in property, plant and equipment.
Depreciation is provided a Pension Schemes at rates designed to write-off the cost in equal annual amounts over Group companies operate various pension schemes.
Contributions the shorter of the estimated useful lives of the assets and the period of to the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are charged in the leases.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks accordance with the advice of the Groups actuaries, so as to spread and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating the cost of pensions over the anticipated service lives of scheme leases.
Operating lease payments are charged to the income members.
As permitted under IAS 19 revised, actuarial surpluses statement as incurred.
and deficits are recognised immediately in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are included at cost less depreciation Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged or impairment.
Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis to to the income statement as incurred.
allocate the cost less residual value over the estimated useful life The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 41 Statement of Accounting Policies cont for The BSS Group plc Group accounts b Share-based compensation identified their value is written down through each Divisions inventory The Group operates various equity-settled share option schemes.
Slow moving and obsolete inventories are assessed The value of the employee services is determined by reference to by each Division during standard reporting procedures and again by the fair value of the options granted using the Black Scholes valuation Group management for statutory reporting.
This value is then expensed in the income statement in the by comparing future sales with current levels of inventory holding.
period between grant date and vesting date vesting period.
At each External factors will also influence this estimate as new legislation, balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of trends, or manufacturers withdrawing product lines might render certain options expected to be exercised.
Any net proceeds are credited to inventories obsolete ahead of any reasonable expectations.
The extent equity when the options are exercised.
to which these external factors influence the profitability of inventory will determine the significance of any provision variance.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, As at 31 March 2008 the Group had inventory provisions of 12.9m after adjusting for impairment for obsolete and slow moving items 2007: 8.3m.
and are calculated on a first in first out basis.
Allowance for doubtful debts Costs comprise direct materials and where appropriate a proportion The Group makes provisions for debts that management estimates of attributable overheads, supplier rebates and discounts.
Each Division makes monthly assessments realisable value is the estimated selling price less further costs on the recoverability of all its accounts based on external factors such expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
as the credit-worthiness of the customer, prevailing market conditions and the age of the receivable.
A detailed formal review is undertaken at Trade receivables half and full year to ensure that all provision balances are fair and Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and are accurate.
If the Group has been cautious in assessing the financial subsequently recognised at amortised cost, less a provision for conditions of the customer and its ability to pay, then amounts that impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is have been provided for may subsequently be recovered.
Likewise if the established when objective evidence exists that the Group will not Group has been optimistic then amounts expected to be recovered and be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms therefore not provided for may subsequently be deemed irrecoverable.
As at 31 March 2008, the Group had a provision for doubtful debts Taxation of 6.7m 2007: 5.2m.
The current taxation charge in the income statement is based on the profit for the year as adjusted for disallowable and not taxable items Long-lived assets using current rates and takes into account tax deferred because of Management review long-lived assets for impairment on an annual the timing differences between the treatment of certain items for basis.
Determining whether impairment has occurred typically requires taxation and accounting purposes.
various estimates and assumptions, including determining which cash flows are directly related to the potentially impaired asset, the useful Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, life over which cash flows will occur, their amount, and the assets on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets residual value, if any.
In turn, measurement of an impairment loss and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial requires a determination of fair value, which is based on the best statements.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates that information available.
Management use internal discounted cash flow are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is estimates, quoted market prices when available and independent realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
appraisals as appropriate to determine fair value.
Management derive the required cash flow estimates from historical experience and Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is internal business plans and apply an appropriate discount rate.
probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Pension liabilities The Group operates various defined benefit pension schemes, all of Significant and exceptional Items which are closed to new members.
These are accounted for using Items that are both material and non-recurring and whose significance methods that rely on actuarial assumptions to estimate the value of is sufficient to warrant separate disclosure and identification within the liabilities and amount of costs to be included in the financial statements.
financial statements are referred to as exceptional items and disclosed The actuarial assumptions include discount rates, assumed rate of within their relevant consolidated income statement category.
return, future salary and pension increases and employee turnover rates.
While management believe that the actuarial assumptions are Critical accounting estimates suitable, any significant change to those would affect the balance The preparation of the financial statements in compliance with IFRS sheet and income statement.
require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial Property leases statements and revenue and expenses during the period.
Management The Group holds a number of leases on properties which are no evaluates its estimates on an ongoing basis using historical experience, longer used for trading.
The Group has recently been successful consultation with experts and other assumptions that it believes in sub-letting a number of properties but despite all efforts this is reasonable.
The Audit Committee have been party to discussions sometimes not possible.
Where a lease is onerous to the Group, about the development, selection and disclosure of the Groups critical a provision is recognised in the accounts as the difference between accounting policies and estimates and about their actual application.
the amounts contractually owed to the landlord and the amount The Groups most sensitive estimates are discussed below.
contractually receivable if any from the tenant for the period up until the lease is judged to be no longer onerous.
Estimates are based Inventories on the current condition of the UK property market and advice from As required by financial reporting standards, the Group continually external advisors and management believe that they are appropriate.
evaluates its stock holding to ensure that it is carried at the lower of It may be possible that a lease takes longer than anticipated to cost or net realisable value.
Provisions are made against damaged, dispose of resulting in an understatement of the provision.
If this is slow moving and obsolete inventories.
As damaged inventories are the case, management do no believe it likely to be material.
42 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
