qxd 24 3 09 12:35 Page 60 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2008 3.
Segment information Business segment analysis The Group is organised on a worldwide basis into four main segments: London Market, Retail, Employee Benefits and Head Office & Other operations.
These segments are consistent with the internal reporting structure of the Group.
The London Market segment comprises JLTs specialist, wholesale and reinsurance broking activities.
The Retail segment comprises the Group international insurance broking and risk services activities.
The Employee Benefits segment consists of pension administration, outsourcing and employee benefits consultancy.
The Head Office & Other segment consists mainly of holding companies, central administration functions, the Group's captive insurance companies and the Group's principal investments associates.
Segment results In accordance with IFRS 8, segment results include the net income or expense derived from the trading activities of the segment together with the investment income earned on fiduciary funds.
Interest income on the Groups own funds and finance costs are excluded since the trading activities of the Groups primary segments are not of a financial nature.
Segment assets include: - non-current assets excluding investments in associates and deferred tax assets - trade and other receivables - fiduciary funds Interest bearing assets e. g. cash & cash equivalents and investments & deposits relating to the Groups own funds are excluded from segmental assets.
Segment liabilities include: - trade and other payables - provisions for liabilities and charges It excludes any interest bearing liabilities e. g. borrowings as well as income & deferred tax liabilities.
"Items excluded from segmental allocation are referred to below as unallocated""."
Investments in associates: the Group owns 20 per cent of the French company Newstone Courtage the holding company of SIACI Saint Honor which operates principally in France.
Although the investment and the Group's share of Newstones net profit are excluded from the segmental analysis of assets and revenue, they are shown separately in conjunction with data from the Head Office & Other segment together with the investment and results from ICAP-JLT and JLT Re Do Brazil.
Group companies also own a number of small associates in Australia and Asia which are included in the Retail segment.
qxd 24 3 09 12:35 Page 61 Group financial statements 3.
The United Kingdom is the home country of the parent company Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc.
The London Market segment operates in the United Kingdom, its home country.
In the Americas, the London Market segment operates in Bermuda and the United States.
In Europe, it operates in France, Sweden, Norway and Russia.
The Retail segment operates in the United Kingdom, its home country and also in Guernsey.
In the Americas, the Retail segment operates in the following countries: Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Mexico, and Peru.
In Europe, it operates in the Republic of Ireland, Italy, Spain, Poland.
The Australasian segment includes operations in Australia and New Zealand and the Asian segment includes operations in Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Indonesia, Japan, Thailand, Korea, Philippines, Malaysia, China and Vietnam.
The Employee Benefits segment operates in the United Kingdom, its home country.
The Head Office & Other activities segment is mainly based in the United Kingdom with minor operations in the United States, Europe and Asia.
The Groups captive operations whilst located in Bermuda are included in the United Kingdom segment.
Fees and commissions are allocated based on 1 the country in which the office is located and 2 the country in which the customer is located.
Segment non-current assets, segment assets and segment liabilities are allocated based on the country in which they are located or occur.
JLT Annual Report 2008 61 accounts at 180309 tp.
qxd 24 3 09 12:35 Page 62 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2008 3.
