qxd 24 3 09 12:35 Page 102 Company accounts Prepared in accordance with UK GAAP Contents 102 Independent auditors report 103 Balance sheet 103 Reconciliation of shareholders funds 104 Accounting policies 105 Notes to the Company accounts Independent auditors report to the members of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc whether in our opinion the information given in the We have audited the parent company financial we considered necessary in order to provide us Directors' Report is consistent with the parent statements of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc with sufficient evidence to give reasonable company financial statements.
The information for the year ended 31st December 2008 which assurance that the parent company financial given in the Directors Report includes that comprises the Balance Sheet, the Reconciliation statements and the part of the Directors specific information presented in the Operating of Movement In Shareholders Funds, the Remuneration Report to be audited are free from and Financial Review that is cross referred from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud Accounting Policies, and the related notes.
the Principal Activities and Business Review or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion These parent company financial statements have section of the Directors Report.
we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the been prepared under the accounting policies set presentation of information in the parent company out therein.
We have also audited the information In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, financial statements and the part of the Directors in the Directors Remuneration Report that is the company has not kept proper accounting Remuneration Report to be audited.
described as having been audited.
records, if we have not received all the We have reported separately on the Group information and explanations we require for our Opinion financial statements of Jardine Lloyd Thompson audit, or if information specified by law regarding Group plc for the year ended 31st December directors remuneration and other transactions is In our opinion: 2008. not disclosed.
the parent company financial statements We read other information contained in the give a true and fair view, in accordance with Respective responsibilities of Annual Report and consider whether it is United Kingdom Generally Accepted directors and auditors consistent with the audited parent company Accounting Practice, of the state of the financial statements.
The other information companys affairs as at 31st December The directors responsibilities for preparing the comprises only the Chairmans Statement, 2008.
Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration the Chief Executives Report, the Review of Report and the parent company financial the parent company financial statements and Operations, the Finance Directors Review, the statements in accordance with applicable law and the part of the Directors Remuneration Corporate Social Responsibility statement, the United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Report to be audited have been properly Directors Report, the Remuneration Report and Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting prepared in accordance with the Companies all of the other information listed on the contents Practice are set out in the Statement of Act 1985: and page.
We consider the implications for our Directors Responsibilities.
report if we become aware of any apparent the information given in the Directors' Report Our responsibility is to audit the parent company misstatements or material inconsistencies with the is consistent with the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors company financial statements.
Remuneration Report to be audited in do not extend to any other information.
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on  LLP Basis of audit opinion Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with the opinion, has been prepared for and only for London International Standards on Auditing UK and the companys members as a body in 23rd March 2009 Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
accordance with Section 235 of the Companies An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of a The maintenance and integrity of the Jardine Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures Lloyd Thompson Group plc website is the giving this opinion, accept or assume in the parent company financial statements and responsibility of the directors: the work carried responsibility for any other purpose or to any the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to out by the auditors does not involve other person to whom this report is shown or into be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the consideration of these matters and, whose hands it may come save where expressly significant estimates and judgments made by the accordingly, the auditors accept no agreed by our prior consent in writing.
directors in the preparation of the parent responsibility for any changes that may have We report to you our opinion as to whether the company financial statements, and of whether the occurred to the financial statements since they parent company financial statements give a true accounting policies are appropriate to the were initially presented on the website.
and fair view and whether the parent company companys circumstances, consistently applied b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing financial statements and the part of the Directors and adequately disclosed.
the preparation and dissemination of financial Remuneration Report to be audited have been We planned and performed our audit so as to statements may differ from legislation in other properly prepared in accordance with the obtain all the information and explanations which jurisdictions.
We also report to you 102 JLT Annual Report 2008
