qxd 24 3 09 12:35 Page 50 Accounting policies initially at their fair values at the Basis of preparation Standards and amendments acquisition date, irrespective of the early adopted by the Group The consolidated financial statements of extent of any minority interest.
IFRS 8, Operating segments, was the Group have been prepared in The excess of the cost of acquisition early adopted in 2008.
IFRS 8 replaces accordance with International Financial over the fair value of the Groups share IAS 14, Segment reporting.
The new Reporting Standards as adopted by the of the identifiable net assets acquired is standard requires a management European Union IFRSs as adopted by recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of approach, under which segment the EU, IFRIC interpretations and the acquisition is less than the fair value of information is presented on the same Companies Act 1985 applicable to the net assets of the subsidiary basis as that used for internal reporting Companies reporting under IFRS.
The acquired, the difference is recognised purposes.
This has resulted in an consolidated financial statements have directly in the income statement.
increase in the number of reportable been prepared under the historical cost Inter-company transactions, balances segments presented.
In addition, the convention, as modified by the and unrealised gains on transactions segments are reported in a manner that revaluation of available-for-sale between Group companies are is more consistent with the internal investments and derivative financial eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also reporting provided to the chief operating instruments.
eliminated unless the transaction decision-maker.
Comparatives for 2007 Standards, amendments and provides evidence of an impairment of have been restated.
interpretations effective in 2008 the asset transferred.
Accounting Basis of consolidation policies of subsidiaries have been IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a changed where necessary to ensure defined benefit asset, minimum funding The consolidated financial statements consistency with the policies adopted requirements and their interaction, comprise the accounts of the Company by the Group.
provides guidance on assessing the and its subsidiary undertakings.
limit in IAS 19 on the amount of the The profits and losses of subsidiary Associates surplus that can be recognised as an undertakings are consolidated as from asset.
It also explains how the pension the effective date of acquisition or to the Associates are all entities over which asset or liability may be affected by a effective date of disposal.
the Group has significant influence but statutory or contractual minimum not control, generally accompanying a Subsidiaries funding requirement.
This interpretation shareholding of between 20% and 50% does not have any impact on the of the voting rights.
Investments in Subsidiaries are all entities over which groups financial statements.
associates are accounted for by the the Group has the power to govern the equity method of accounting and are financial and operating policies so as to IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and treasury initially recognised at cost.
obtain economic benefits and generally share transactions, provides guidance accompany a shareholding of more on whether share-based transactions The Groups investment in associates than one half of the voting rights.
involving treasury shares or involving includes goodwill net of any The existence and effect of potential group entities for example, options over accumulated impairment loss identified voting rights that are currently a parents shares should be accounted on acquisition.
The Groups share of its exercisable or convertible are for as equity-settled or cash-settled associates post-acquisition profits or considered when assessing whether share-based payment transactions in losses are recognised in the income the Group controls another entity.
the stand-alone accounts of the parent statement, and its share of postSubsidiaries are fully consolidated from and Group companies.
This acquisition movements in reserves are the date on which control is transferred interpretation does not have an impact recognised in reserves.
The cumulative to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated on the groups financial statements.
post-acquisition movements are from the date that control ceases.
adjusted against the carrying amount of The following interpretation to published the investment.
The Group uses the purchase method standards are mandatory for accounting of accounting to account for the periods beginning on or after 1st When the Groups share of losses in an acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of January 2008 but are not relevant to the associate equals or exceeds its interest an acquisition is measured as the fair Groups operations in the associate, including any other value of the assets given, equity unsecured receivables, the Group does IFRIC 12, Service concession instruments issued and liabilities not recognise further losses, unless it arrangements: and incurred or assumed at the date of has incurred obligations or made exchange, plus costs directly IFRIC 13, Customer loyalty payments on behalf of the associate.
Unrealised gains on transactions Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities between the Group and its associates and contingent liabilities assumed in a are eliminated to the extent of the business combination are measured 50 JLT Annual Report 2008 accounts at 180309 tp.
qxd 24 3 09 12:35 Page 51 Group financial statements Groups interest in the associates.
available-for-sale financial assets, are Balance Sheet.
Goodwill on acquisitions included in the fair value reserve in of associates is included in investments Unrealised losses are also eliminated equity.
unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset Group companies Goodwill arising on acquisitions transferred.
Accounting policies of The results and financial position of all completed prior to 1st January 1998 is associates have been changed where written off directly to reserves.
Following the Group entities none of which has necessary to ensure consistency with the adoption of IFRS this goodwill the currency of a hyperinflationary the policies adopted by the Group.
economy that have a functional remains written off to reserves and no currency different from the presentation adjustment would be made on Segment reporting subsequent disposal.
For acquisitions currency are translated into the A business segment is a group of completed on or after 1st January 1998 presentation currency as follows: assets and operations engaged in and before 1st January 2004, goodwill i assets and liabilities for each providing services that are subject to is stated on the Balance Sheet at its balance sheet presented are risks and returns that are different from previously amortised net book value.
translated at the closing rate at the those of other business segments.
For acquisitions completed on or after date of that balance sheet: A geographical segment is engaged in 1st January 2004, goodwill is tested ii income and expenses for each providing services within a particular annually for impairment and carried at income statement are translated at cost less accumulated impairment economic environment that are subject average exchange rates unless this losses.
Gains and losses on the to risks and returns that are different average is not a reasonable disposal of an entity include the carrying from those of segments operating in approximation of the cumulative amount of goodwill relating to the entity other economic environments.
effect of the rates prevailing on the sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash transaction dates, in which case Foreign currencies generating units for the purpose of income and expenses are translated impairment testing.
Cash generating Functional and presentation at the dates of the transactions : units represent the lowest level of currency and geographical and business segment Items included in the financial iii all resulting exchange differences are combinations that the Group uses for statements of each of the Groups recognised as a separate internal reporting purposes.
entities are measured using the component of equity.
currency of the primary economic Intangible assets environment in which the entity On consolidation, exchange differences Computer software operates the functional currency.
arising from the translation of the net The consolidated financial statements investment in foreign entities, and of Acquired computer software licenses borrowings and other currency are capitalised on the basis of the costs are presented in Sterling, which is the Parent Companys functional and instruments designated as hedges of incurred to acquire and bring to use the presentation currency.
such investments, are taken to specific software.
These costs are shareholders equity.
When a foreign amortised over their estimated useful Transactions and balances operation is sold, such exchange lives.
Costs associated with developing Foreign currency transactions are differences are recognised in the or maintaining computer software translated into the functional currency income statement as part of the gain or programmes are recognised as an using the exchange rates prevailing at loss on sale.
Costs that are the dates of the transactions.
Foreign directly associated with the production Goodwill and fair value adjustments exchange gains and losses resulting of identifiable and unique software arising on the acquisition of a foreign from the settlement of such transactions products controlled by the Group, and entity are treated as assets and liabilities and from the translation at year-end that will generate economic benefits of the foreign entity and translated at exchange rates of monetary assets and exceeding costs beyond one year, are the closing rate.
liabilities denominated in foreign recognised as intangible assets.
Direct currencies are recognised in the income costs include the software development Goodwill arising on statement, except when deferred in employee costs and an appropriate consolidation equity as qualifying cash flow hedges portion of relevant overheads.
and qualifying net investment hedges.
Goodwill represents the excess of the Computer software development costs Translation differences on non-monetary cost of an acquisition over the fair value recognised as assets are amortised items, such as equities held at fair value of the Groups share of the net over their estimated useful lives.
through profit or loss, are reported as identifiable assets of the acquired part of the fair value gain or loss.
subsidiary associate at the date of Translation differences on non-monetary acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of items, such as equities classified as subsidiaries is shown separately on the JLT Annual Report 2008 51 accounts at 180309 tp.
qxd 24 3 09 12:35 Page 52 Accounting policies Capitalised employment 2 Other investments, which include Property, plant and equipment contract payments securities and other investments Assets are stated at their net book held for strategic purposes - these The Group makes payments to certain value historical cost less accumulated investments are held fair at value key employees in recognition of them depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated unless a fair value cannot be signing a long-term employment to write off the cost of such assets over accurately determined in which contact, usually three to five years.
case they are held at cost less any These payments are capitalised as The principal rates of depreciation are provision for impairment.
intangible assets since legal rights as follows: protect the expected benefits that the Interest on deposits and interestGroup will derive from the contracts.
Freehold land and buildings: - bearing investments is credited as it is between 0% and 2% per annum.
The asset recognised is then amortised over the duration of the underlying Leasehold improvements: - between Regular purchases and sales of financial contract.
10% and 20% per annum or over assets are recognised on the trade date Other the life of the lease.
- the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
For acquisitions completed after 1st Furniture and office equipment: - Investments are initially recognised at January 2004 the business acquired is between 10% and 20% per annum.
fair value plus transaction costs.
reviewed to identify assets that meet Computer hardware: - between Financial assets are derecognised when the definition of an intangible asset per 20% and 100% per annum.
the rights to receive cash flows have IAS 38.
Examples of such assets expired or have been transferred and include customer contracts and Motor vehicles: - between 25% and the Group has transferred substantially expectations of business renewal.
all risks and rewards of ownership.
These assets are valued on the basis of Available-for-sale assets are the present value of future cash flows Financial assets subsequently carried at fair value.
and are amortised to the income The Group classifies its financial assets Loans and receivables are carried at statement over the life of the contract or as loans and receivables and availableamortised cost.
The classification current maximum estimated economic The fair values of quoted investments depends upon the purpose for which life is ten years.
are determined based upon current bid the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the Impairment of assets classification of its financial assets Changes in the value of securities Assets that have an indefinite useful life at initial recognition.
classified as available-for-sale are are not subject to amortisation and are recognised in equity.
Assets Loans and receivables that are subject to amortisation are Employee benefit trust Loans and receivables are nonreviewed for impairment whenever derivative financial assets with fixed or The Group operates a deferred events or changes in circumstances determinable payments that are not compensation scheme by way of a indicate that the carrying amount may quoted in an active market.
They are discretionary, employee benefit trust.
An impairment loss included in current assets, except for Investments held by this scheme, which is recognised for the amount by which maturities greater than 12 months after are principally represented by Unit the assets carrying amount exceeds its the balance sheet date.
The Group's Trusts, are classified as fixed assets on recoverable amount.
The recoverable loans and receivables comprise trade the balance sheets and charged to the amount is the higher of an assets fair and other receivables and cash and Group profit and loss account over the value less costs to sell and value in use.
cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
vesting periods of the award.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the Available-for-sale financial Insurance broking debtors and lowest levels for which there are assets creditors separately identifiable cash flows Available-for-sale financial assets are Insurance brokers act as agents in cash-generating units.
categorised according to their nature placing the insurable risks of their into one of two categories: clients with insurers and, as such, are not liable as principals for amounts 1 Investments and deposits, which arising from such transactions.
consist mainly of Fixed Deposits, In recognition of this relationship, Bonds and Commercial Paper - debtors from insurance broking these investments are held at fair value and are classified between transactions are not included as an current and non-current assets according to maturity date.
52 JLT Annual Report 2008 accounts at 180309 tp.
qxd 24 3 09 12:35 Page 53 Group financial statements asset of the Group.
Other than the that the temporary difference will not Borrowings receivable for fees and commissions reverse in the foreseeable future.
Borrowings are classified as current earned on a transaction, no recognition liabilities unless the Group has an Employee benefits of the insurance transaction occurs until unconditional right to defer settlement the Group receives cash in respect of Pension costs of the liability for at least 12 months premiums or claims, at which time a The Group operates a number of after the balance sheet date.
corresponding liability is established in defined benefit pension schemes, and a Borrowings are recognised initially at fair favour of the insurer or the client.
number of employees are members of value, net of transaction costs incurred, In certain circumstances, the Group defined contribution pension schemes.
they are subsequently stated at advances premiums, refunds or claims amortised cost using the effective A defined benefit plan is a pension plan to insurance underwriters or clients prior interest rate method.
that defines an amount of pension to collection.
These advances are benefit that an employee will receive on reflected in the consolidated balance Deferred income tax retirement, usually dependent on one or sheet as part of trade receivables.
more factors such as age, years of The charge for taxation is based on the service and compensation.
result for the year at current rates of tax Trade receivables and takes into account deferred tax.
Full actuarial valuations of the Groups Trade receivables are recognised initially main defined benefit schemes are at fair value and subsequently at Deferred income tax is provided in full, carried out at least every three years.
using the liability method, on temporary amortised cost, less provision for A qualified actuary updates these differences arising between the tax impairment.
A provision for impairment valuations to 31st December each year.
bases of assets and liabilities and their of trade receivables is established when For the purposes of these annual there is objective evidence that the carrying amounts in the consolidated updates, scheme assets are included at financial statements.
However, if the Group will not be able to collect all market value and scheme liabilities are deferred income tax arises from initial amounts due according to the original measured on an actuarial basis using recognition of an asset or liability in a terms of the receivables.
Significant the projected unit method: these financial difficulties of the debtor, transaction other than a business liabilities are discounted at the current combination that at the time of the dispute, default or delinquency in rate of return of an AA corporate bond transaction affects neither accounting payments are considered indicators that of equivalent currency and term.
nor taxable profit or loss, it is not the receivable is impaired.
The carrying The defined benefit surplus or deficit is amount of the asset is reduced through recognised.
Deferred income tax is included on the Groups balance sheet.
determined using tax rates and laws the use of an allowance account, and Surpluses are included only to the that have been enacted or substantially the amount of the loss is recognised in extent that they are recoverable through enacted by the balance sheet date and the income statement.
When a trade reduced contributions in the future or receivable is uncollectible, it is written are expected to apply when the related through refunds from the schemes.
deferred income tax asset is realised or off against the allowance account for The current service cost and any past the deferred income tax liability is trade receivables.
service costs are included in the income settled.
Cash and cash equivalents statement within salaries and Deferred income tax is charged or associated expenses and the expected Cash and cash equivalents includes credited to equity in respect of any return on the schemes assets, net of cash in hand, deposits held at call with items, which is itself either charged or the impact of the unwinding of the banks, other short-term highly liquid credited directly to equity.
Any discount on scheme liabilities, is investments with original maturities of subsequent recognition of the deferred included within finance costs.
Actuarial three months or less.
Bank overdrafts gain or loss in the consolidated income gains and losses, including differences are shown within borrowings in current statement is accompanied by the between the expected and actual return liabilities on the balance sheet.
on scheme assets, are recognised Deferred income tax assets are through the Statement of Recognised Trade payables recognised to the extent that it is Income and Expense.
Trade payables are initially recognised at probable that future taxable profit will be A defined contribution plan is a pension fair value and subsequently measured available against which the temporary plan under which the Group pays fixed at amortised cost.
Deferred income tax is provided on The Group has no legal or constructive temporary differences arising on obligations to pay further contributions if investments in subsidiaries and the fund does not hold sufficient assets associates, except where the Group to pay all employees the benefits controls the timing of the reversal of the relating to employee service in the temporary difference and it is probable current and prior periods.
JLT Annual Report 2008 53 accounts at 180309 tp.
qxd 24 3 09 12:35 Page 54 Accounting policies The costs of the Groups defined Leases in which a significant portion of Fees and commissions contribution pension schemes are the risks and rewards of ownership are Fees and commissions are derived from charged to the income statement in the retained by the lessor are classified as two principal sources: period in which they fall due.
Payments made Insurance broking under operating leases net of any Share-based compensation incentives received from the lessor are Income relating to insurance broking is The Group operates a number of brought into account at the later of, the charged to the income statement on a equity-settled, share-based policy inception date or when the policy straight-line basis over the period of the compensation plans.
placement has been completed and the employee services received in confirmed.
Where there is an exchange for the grant of the options is Derivative financial instruments expectation of future servicing recognised as an expense.
The total requirements an element of income The Group only enters into derivative amount to be expensed over the relating to the policy is deferred to cover financial instruments in order to hedge vesting period is determined by the associated contractual obligation.
reference to the fair value of the options Other services granted, excluding the impact of any Derivative financial instruments are non-market vesting conditions for Fees and other income receivable are initially recognised at fair value on the example, profitability and sales growth recognised in the period which they date a derivative contract is entered into targets.
Non-market vesting conditions relate and when they can be measured and are subsequently re-measured at are included in assumptions about the with reasonable certainty.
The method of number of options that are expected to recognising the resulting gain or loss is Non-recurring items become exercisable.
At each balance dependent on the nature of the item sheet date, the entity revises its being hedged.
The Group designates Non-recurring items are separately estimates of the number of options that derivatives as either a hedge of the fair identified to provide greater are expected to become exercisable.
value of a recognised asset or liability understanding of the Groups underlying It recognises the impact of the revision fair value hedge, or a hedge of a performance.
Items classified as of original estimates, if any, in the forecasted transaction or of the foreign exceptional items include: gains or income statement, and a corresponding currency risk on a firm commitment losses arising from the sale of adjustment to equity over the remaining cash flow hedge, or a hedge of a net businesses and investments: closure vesting period.
investment in a foreign entity net costs for businesses: restructuring investment hedges.
costs: post acquisition integration costs: The proceeds received net of any and other credits and charges of nondirectly attributable transaction costs Changes in the fair value of derivatives recurring nature that require inclusion in are credited to share capital nominal that are designated and qualify as fair order to provide additional insight into value and share premium when the value hedges and that are highly the the underlying business options are exercised.
effective, are recorded in the performance.
consolidated income statement, along Provisions for liabilities and with any changes in the fair value of the Items of a non-recurring and material charges hedged asset or liability that is nature are charged or credited to attributable to the hedged risk.
A provision is recognised where there is operating profit and are classified to the a present obligation, whether legal or appropriate income statement Changes in the fair value of derivatives constructive, as a result of a past event headings.
To assist in the analysis and that are designated and qualify as cash for which it is probable that a transfer of understanding of the underlying trading flow hedges and that are highly economic benefits will be required to position of the Group these items are effective, are recognised in equity.
settle the obligation and a reasonable summarised within the Operating Profit, Where the forecasted transaction or firm estimate can be made of the amount of note 4 on page 63, under the heading commitment results in the recognition of the obligation.
Where appropriate the of exceptional items.
a non-financial asset or of a nonGroup discounts provisions to their financial liability, the gains and losses Leases present value.
The unwinding of the previously deferred in equity are provision discounting is included as an Assets held under leasing agreements, transferred from equity and included in interest charge within finance costs in which transfer substantially all the risks the initial measurement of the cost of the income statement.
and rewards of ownership to the Group the asset or liability.
Otherwise, amounts are included in property, plant and deferred in equity are transferred to the equipment.
The capital elements of the consolidated income statement and related lease obligations are included in classified as income or expense in the liabilities.
The interest elements of the same periods during which the hedged lease obligations are charged to the firm commitment or forecasted income statement over the period of the transaction affects the consolidated lease term.
The gain or loss 54 JLT Annual Report 2008 accounts at 180309 tp.
qxd 24 3 09 12:35 Page 55 Group financial statements relating to the ineffective portion is c Income taxes Critical accounting estimates recognised instantly in the income and judgments The Group is subject to income taxes in statement.
Significant Estimates and judgments used in judgement is required in determining the When a hedging instrument expires or preparing the financial statements are worldwide provision for income taxes.
is sold, or when a hedge no longer continually evaluated and are based on There are many transactions and meets the criteria for hedge accounting, historical experience and other factors, calculations for which the ultimate tax any cumulative gain or loss existing in including expectations of future events determination is uncertain during the equity at that time remains in the that are believed to be reasonable.
Where the hedging reserves and is recognised The resulting accounting estimates will, final tax outcome of these matters is when the committed or forecasted by definition, seldom equal the related different from the amounts that were transaction ultimately is recognised in actual results.
The estimates and initially recorded, such differences will the consolidated income statement.
assumptions that have a significant impact the income tax and deferred tax When a committed or forecasted effect on the carrying amounts of assets provisions in the period in which such transaction is no longer expected to and liabilities are discussed below.
occur, the cumulative gain or loss that a Property, plant and equipment was reported in equity is immediately d Pension obligations Assets are carried at historical cost less transferred to the consolidated income The present value of the pension depreciation calculated to write off the statement.
obligations depends on a number of cost of such assets over their estimated factors that are determined on an useful lives.
Fair value estimation actuarial basis using a number of Management determines the estimated The fair value of financial instruments assumptions.
The assumptions used in useful lives and related depreciation traded in active markets such as determining the net cost income for charges at acquisition.
The estimated pensions include the expected  is based upon quoted useful life is reviewed annually and the term rate of return on the relevant plans market prices at the balance sheet depreciation charge is revised where date.
The quoted market price used for assets and the discount rate.
useful lives are subsequently found to financial assets held by the Group is the Any changes in these assumptions will be different to those previously impact the carrying amount of pension current bid price.
The carrying value less impairment b Impairment of assets provision of trade receivables and The expected return on plan assets The Group tests annually whether payables are assumed to approximate assumption is determined on a uniform goodwill and other assets that have basis, taking into consideration longtheir fair values.
The fair values of indefinite useful lives suffered any term historical returns, asset allocation financial liabilities is estimated by impairment.
Other assets are reviewed discounting the future contractual cash and future estimates of long-term for impairment whenever events or flows at the current market interest rate investment returns.
The Group changes in circumstances indicate that determines the appropriate discount that is available to the Group for similar the carrying amount of the asset rate at the end of each year.
This is the financial instruments.
interest rate that should be used to The recoverable amount of an asset or Dividend distribution determine the present value of a cash-generating unit is determined estimated future cash outflows Dividends proposed or declared after based on value-in use calculations expected to be required to settle the the balance sheet date are not prepared on the basis of managements pension obligations.
In determining the recognised as a liability at the balance assumptions and estimates.
appropriate discount rate, the Group sheet date.
Final dividends are This determination requires significant considers the interest rates of highrecognised as a charge to equity once judgment.
In making this judgment, the quality corporate bonds that are approved and interim dividends are Group evaluates, among other factors, denominated in the currency in which charged once paid.
the duration and extent to which the fair the benefits will be paid, and that have value of an investment is less than its terms to maturity approximating the Financial and capital risk cost: and the financial health of and terms of the related pension liability.
management near-term business outlook for the Other key assumptions for pension The Groups exposure to financial risks investment, including factors such as obligations are based in part on current and its financial and capital industry and sector performance, market conditions.
management policies are detailed in the changes in regional economies and Directors Report on pages 33 to 34. operational and financing cash flow.
JLT Annual Report 2008 55 accounts at 180309 tp.
qxd 24 3 09 12:35 Page 56 Accounting policies income.
The group will apply IAS 1 e Errors and omissions liability example, goodwill.
Reversals of Revised from 1st January 2009. impairment are recorded as an During the ordinary course of business This revision is not expected to have a adjustment to the investment balance to the Group can be subject to claims for significant impact on the Group's the extent that the recoverable amount errors and omissions made in reporting.
The Group connection with its broking activities.
will apply the IAS 28 Amendment to IAS 19 Amendment, Employee A balance sheet provision is established impairment tests related to investments Benefits effective from 1st January in respect of such claims when it is in associates and any related 2009. probable that the liability has been impairment losses from 1st January incurred and the amount of the liability The amendment clarifies that a plan 2009. can be reasonably estimated.
amendment that results in a change in IAS 36 Amendment, Impairment of The Group analyses its litigation the extent to which benefit promises are assets effective from 1st January exposures based on available affected by future salary increases is a 2009.
Where fair value less costs to sell information, including external legal curtailment, while an amendment that is calculated on the basis of discounted consultation where appropriate, to changes benefits attributable to past cash flows, disclosures equivalent to assess its potential liability.
service gives rise to a negative past those for value-in-use calculation should service cost if it results in a reduction in The outcome of the currently pending be made.
The Group will apply the IAS the present value of the defined benefit and future proceedings cannot be 28 Amendment and provide the obligation.
The definition of return on predicted with certainty.
Thus, an required disclosure where applicable for plan assets has been amended to state adverse decision in a current or future impairment tests from 1st January that plan administration costs are lawsuit could result in additional costs 2009. deducted in the calculation of return on that are not covered, either wholly or plan assets only to the extent that such partially, under insurance policies and IFRS 2 Amendment, Share-based costs have been excluded from are in excess of the presently payment effective from 1st January measurement of the defined benefit established provisions.
The amended standard deals obligation.
The Group will apply the IAS therefore that the financial position, with vesting conditions and 19 Amendment from 1st January results of operations or cash flows of cancellations.
It clarifies that vesting 2009. the Group could be materially affected conditions are service conditions and by the unfavourable outcome of performance conditions only.
It also IAS 27 Revised, Consolidated and litigation.
specifies the accounting treatment for separate financial statements, effective all cancellations, whether by the entity from 1st July 2009.
The revised Future developments or by other parties.
The Group will apply standard requires the effects of all The following standards and IFRS 2 Amendment from 1st January transactions with non controlling amendments to existing standards have interests to be recorded in equity if there 2009.
This amendment is not expected been published and are mandatory for is no change in control and these to have a significant impact on the the groups accounting periods transactions will no longer result in Group's reporting.
beginning on or after 1st January 2009 goodwill or gains and losses.
The IFRS 3 Revised, Business or later periods, but the Group has not standard also specifies the accounting combinations effective from 1st July early adopted them: when control is lost.
The revised standard continues interest in the entity is re-measured to IAS 1 Revised, Presentation of to apply the acquisition method to fair value, and a gain or loss is financial statements effective from 1st business combinations, with some recognised in profit or loss.
The revised standard will significant changes.
For example, all will apply IAS 27 Revised prospectively prohibit the presentation of items of payments to purchase a business are to to transactions with non-controlling income and expenses in the statement be recorded at fair value at the interests from 1st January 2010. of changes in equity, requiring nonacquisition date, with contingent IAS 28 Amendment, Investments in owner changes in equity to be payments classified as debt associates and consequential presented separately from owner subsequently re-measured through the amendments to IAS 32, Financial changes in equity.
There is a choice on Instruments: Presentation, and IFRS 7, changes in equity will be required to be an  basis to Financial instruments: Disclosures shown in a performance statement, but measure the non-controlling interest in effective from 1st January 2009. entities can choose whether to present the acquiree either at fair vale or at the An investment in associate is treated as one performance statement the non-controlling interests proportionate a single asset for the purposes of statement of comprehensive income or share of the acquirees net assets.
Any impairment loss two statements the income statement acquisition-related costs should be is not allocated to specific assets and statement of comprehensive expensed.
The group will apply IFRS 3 included within the investment, for 56 JLT Annual Report 2008 accounts at 180309 tp.
qxd 24 3 09 12:35 Page 57 Group financial statements IAS 23 Amendment, Borrowing costs Revised prospectively to all business effective from 1st January 2009.
The combinations from 1st January 2010. amendment requires that borrowing IFRS 5 Amendment, Non-current costs directly attributable to a qualifying assets held-for-sale and discontinued asset are capitalised.
operations and consequential IFRS 1 Amendment First time amendment to IFRS 1, First-time adoption of IFRS, and IAS 27 adoption effective from 1st July 2009.
Consolidated and separate financial The amendment clarifies that all of a statements effective from 1st January subsidiarys assets and liabilities are 2009.
Amendment to the definition of classified as held for sale if a partial cost method and allows first-time disposal sale plan results in loss of adopters to use a deemed cost of control.
A consequential amendment to either fair value or the carrying amount IFRS 1 states that these amendments under previous accounting practice to are applied prospectively from the date measure the initial cost of investments.
The Group will apply the IFRS 5 Amendment IAS 38 Amendment, Intangible prospectively to all partial disposals of assets effective from 1st January 2009. subsidiaries from 1st January 2010.
A prepayment may only be recognised in the event that payment IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment has been made in advance of obtaining in a foreign operation effective from right of access to goods or receipt of 1st October 2008.
accounting treatment in respect of net investment hedging.
This includes the fact that net investment hedging relates to differences in functional currency not presentation currency, and hedging instruments may be held anywhere in the group.
The requirements of IAS 21, The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, do apply to the hedged item.
The Group will apply IFRIC 16 from 1st January 2009.
This amendment is not expected to have a significant impact on the Group's reporting.
The following are standards and amendments to existing standards that have been published and are not yet mandatory and which the Group consider will not have any application to how the Group reports: IAS 32 Amendment, Financial instruments: Presentation, and IAS 1 Amendment, Presentation of financial statements Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation effective from 1st January 2009.
Amendments to the treatment of puttable financial instruments and instruments that impose on the entity an obligation to deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets on liquidation.
