41 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report The accounts are published on the www.
co. uk and the financial statements in accordance with applicable website, which is maintained by the Companys Manager, law and regulations.
JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for JPMAM is, so far as it relates to the Company, the each financial year in accordance with United Kingdom responsibility of JPMAM.
The work carried out by the Generally Accepted Accounting Practice which give a true and auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end and integrity of this website and, accordingly, the auditors of the year and of the total return for the year.
In preparing accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to those accounts, the Directors are required to: the accounts since they were initially presented on the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them website.
The accounts are prepared in accordance with consistently: UK legislation, which may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and Statement under the Disclosure & Transparency Rules 4.1.
12 state whether applicable accounting standards have been The Directors each confirm to the best of their followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and knowledge that: explained in the accounts.
a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with The Directors confirm that they comply with these applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view requirements.
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss The Directors are responsible for ensuring that proper of the Company: and accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable b this Annual Report includes a fair review of the accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company development and performance of the business and the and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the position of the Company together with a description of Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
For and on behalf of the Board Andrew Murison Chairman 9th June 2008 T H E C O M P A N Y
