75 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Appendix Explanatory Notes to Resolution 10 5.
Attending and speaking at meetings Article 58 The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, which is replacing Article 58 of the new Articles provides that the Chairman of the Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act is being the meeting may permit non-members or persons who are implemented in stages and will be fully in force by 1st not entitled to exercise the rights of members to attend and, October 2009.
Under resolution 10, the Company is at the Chairman's discretion, speak at a general meeting.
proposing to adopt new Articles of Association the new 6.
Polls Article 64 Articles which will reflect the changes in company law Article 64 clarifies that a poll may be demanded before a show brought about by the 2006 Act which are already in force or of hands, as well as immediately after the result of a show of which are to come into effect on 1st October 2008, as well as hands, and to give the directors the right to demand a poll as some minor technical or clarifying changes.
well as the Chairman of the meeting.
The new Articles of Association will also generally update the 7.
Votes of members, proxies and corporate Articles of Association for current law regulation and representatives Articles 71, 76 and 83 market practice.
Under the 2006 Act, proxies are entitled to vote on a show of 1.
Transfer of shares Articles 34 and 35 hands as well as on a poll, and members may appoint a proxy Under the 2006 Act, a company must either register a transfer to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote or give the transferee notice of, and reasons for, its refusal to at meetings.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that register the transfer.
Any registration of a transfer or notice of each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a refusal must be made or given as soon as practicable and in different share or shares.
The new Articles reflect these new any event within two months from the date that the proxy rights.
The 2006 Act also provides for multiple transfer is lodged with the company.
The new Articles corporate representatives to be appointed and the Articles reflect these requirements.
therefore refer to the right to appoint multiple corporate representatives.
Disclosure of interests Article 43 The provisions relating to the disclosure of interests in shares 8.
Receipt of appointments of proxy and termination of contained in the 1985 Act, including Section 212 on company proxy authority Articles 80 and 81 investigation powers, were repealed in January 2007.
Section Article 80 provides that proxies for a poll to be taken after the 793 and related sections in Part 22 of the 2006 Act, which date of a meeting or adjourned meeting must be received not contain the corresponding company investigation powers less than 24 hours, or such shorter time as the directors may previously contained in Section 212, were brought into force determine, before the time of the poll.
Article 43 reflects the replacement of Section receipt of termination of proxy authority have been brought 212 of the 1985 Act with Section 793 of the 2006 Act.
into line with the deadlines for receipt of proxies.
Article 80 also permits the directors to specify, in a notice of meeting, 3.
Notice of general meetings Article 50 and 51 that in determining the time for delivery of proxies, no The provisions in the new Articles dealing with the convening account shall be taken of non-working days.
of general meetings and the length of notice required to convene general meetings are in line with the relevant 9.
Directors appointments, interests and conflicts of provisions of the 2006 Act.
In particular, a general meeting interest Articles 106 and 107 other than the annual general meeting to consider a special The 2006 Act sets out directors general duties which largely resolution can be convened on 14 days notice whereas codify the existing law but with some changes.
Under the previously 21 days notice was required.
2006 Act, from 1st October 2008 a director has a statutory duty to avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or The amendment to Article 51 deals with situations where, indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with because of a postal strike or similar situation beyond the the companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and control of the Company, a notice of meeting is not received could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of by a shareholder.
The amendment will ensure that such another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The failure does not invalidate proceedings at the meeting 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise in question.
conflicts and potential conflicts where appropriate, if the 4.
Quorum Article 52 articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The Article 52 makes it clear that two persons who are proxies for 2006 Act also allows the articles to contain other provisions the same member or representatives of the same body for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a corporate can constitute a quorum.
T H E C O M P A N Y JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 76 Article 106, which is the provision for dealing with conflicts, 12 The seal Articles 121 and 122 allowing directors to be interested in transactions and to be Article 121 provides that instruments other than share an officer of or employed by or interested in a body corporate certificates to which the seal is affixed shall be signed by two in which the company is interested.
It confirms that such authorised persons or by a director in the presence of a interests, offices or employment will not infringe the conflicts witness, whereas previously the requirement was for signature duty as codified in the 2006 Act.
by either the director and secretary or two directors.
Article 107 gives the directors authority to approve conflict 13.
Notices and other communications Articles 79, situations including other directorships held by the 136-145 company's directors and include other provisions to allow The 2006 Act enables companies to communicate with their conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the members by electronic communication to a greater extent current position.
Article 137 will provide the Company with a general power to send or supply any notice, There are safeguards that will apply when directors decide document or information to any member by a variety of whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only methods in person, by post or in electronic form such as directors who have no interest in the matter being considered by email, or by making it available on the Companys will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in website.
In addition to any notice, document or information taking the decision the directors must act in a way they which is specifically required to be sent or supplied under the consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the 2006 Act, the Company will also be able to send any other company's success.
The directors will be able to impose limits document or information to members using this variety or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this of methods.
Article 79 allows proxies to be sent or supplied in electronic The proposed Article 107 also contains provisions relating to form and, where the Company gives an electronic address in a confidential information, attendance at board meetings and form of proxy, shareholders may send the appointment of availability of board papers to protect a director from being in proxy to that electronic address, subject to any conditions or breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of limitations specified in the relevant notice of meeting.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict has previously The Company may ask each member for his or her consent to been authorised by the directors.
receive communications from the Company via its website.
If the member does not respond to the request for consent It is the Boards intention to report annually on the within 28 days, the Company may take that as consent by the Company's procedures for ensuring that the Board's powers member to receive communications in this way.
If the of authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and that Company sends or supplies any notice, document or the procedures have been followed.
information to members by making it available on the 10.
Permitted interests and voting Article 116 Companys website, it must notify each member who has The provisions which previously deemed certain interests of a consented or is deemed to have consented to receive directors connected persons to be the interests of the director documents via the website, either by post or by email if the himself for the purposes of this article have been deleted.
member has specifically agreed to receive communications in There is no requirement in the 2006 Act to include such a electronic form, that the notice, document or information provision and the 2006 Act contains a much wider definition has been placed on the website.
A member who has consented of connected person of a director.
The director and the or is deemed to have consented to receive communications Company must still take a view each time a matter is being via the website can request a hard copy of any document at considered as to whether the interests of the director's any time.
Members can also revoke their consent to receive connected persons mean that the director should be treated as electronic communications at any time by giving notice in interested for the purposes of this article.
Making and retention of minutes Article 119 In relation to joint holders of shares, Article 137 3 provides Article 119 contains a new provision to the effect that minutes that the agreement of the first-named holder on the register must be retained for at least 10 years, reflecting the relevant of members to accept notices, documents or information provision of the 2006 Act.
No minimum retention time was electronically or via a website shall be binding on the other previously specified.
Article 137 4 permits the Company not to send or supply any notice, document or information to a member whose registered address is not in the United Kingdom unless that member gives a non-electronic address in the United Kingdom.
T H E C O M P A N Y 77 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Appendix continued Articles 137 5 and 137 6 cater for situations where the provision of corporate information in electronic form or via a website may amount to a breach of securities laws of another jurisdiction.
The Company may send hard copies if it needs to restrict the circulation of information in certain circumstances, such as for US securities law reasons.
Article 144 deals with notices, documents or information sent by the Company to a member which have been returned undelivered on three consecutive occasions.
The member will only be entitled to be sent further communications upon provision of a new postal or electronic address to the Company.
Article 145 is included to deal with the validation of documents in electronic form by members where required by the Articles.
In the case of notices of meetings or proxies, any validation requirements must be specified in the notice.
Power to indemnify directors Article 148 The law governing the giving by a company of indemnities to directors of that company or an associated company was amended in 2005 and further amended by the 2006 Act.
In particular, a company may now, inter alia, do the following: i in the case of liabilities arising from actions brought by third parties other than regulatory authorities or criminal prosecutors, both the costs of the director and of the third party and any damages may be paid by the company even if the judgement goes against the director: ii in the case of liabilities arising from actions brought by the company or an associated company, the company will not be able to indemnify a director against damages awarded to the company itself but may pay the directors' defence costs as they are incurred although a director would be liable to repay his defence costs if his defence was to be unsuccessful : iii the company will not be permitted to indemnify directors against criminal fines, fines by regulators or the legal costs of successful criminal proceedings against directors: and iv a company may, subject to the provisions of the 2006 Act, indemnify a director of an associated company that is the trustee of an occupational pension scheme, taking advantage of the qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision in the 2006 Act.
As a result of the above, the directors indemnity provisions of the Articles of Association have been amended.
Article 148 has now been drafted as a permissive provision that gives the Company a broad power to indemnify a director, subject to the provisions of the 2006 Act.
Article 148 also permits the maintenance by the Company of liability insurance for directors and it specifically makes it clear that the Company may, subject to the provisions of the 2006 Act, indemnify a director of an associated company that is the trustee of an occupational pension scheme, taking advantage of the qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision in the 2006 Act.
