JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 72 Notice of Annual General Meeting Growth or Income share taken from and calculated Notice is hereby given that the seventyby reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily ninth Annual General Meeting of JPMorgan Official List for the five business days immediately European Investment Trust plc will be held preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased or b the price of the last independent at The Library, JPMorgan, 60 Victoria trade: or c the highest current independent bid: Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP on iv any purchase of Growth or Income shares will be Thursday 17th July 2008 at 12.00 noon for made in the market for cash at prices below the the following purposes: prevailing net asset value per Growth or Income 1 To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and share as determined by the Directors at the date the Auditors Report for the year ended 31st March 2008. following not more than seven days before the date of purchase: 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31st March 2008. v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 16th January 2010 unless the authority is renewed at the 3 To re-elect Stephen Russell a Director of the Company.
Companys Annual General Meeting in 2009 or at 4 To re-elect Ferdinand Verdonck a Director of the any other general meeting prior to such time: and Company.
vi the Company may make a contract to purchase 5 To re-elect Alexander Zagoreos a Director of the Growth or Income shares under the authority Company.
hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of shares 6 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors to the pursuant to any such contract notwithstanding such Company and to authorise the Directors to determine expiry.
their remuneration for the ensuing year.
Authority to sell Growth and Income Shares from Treasury Special Business: Special Resolution To consider the following resolutions: 8 THAT the Directors of the Company be authorised, for Authority to Repurchase the Companys Shares Special the purposes of paragraph 12.6 of the Listing Rules of the Resolution United Kingdom Listing Authority, to sell Growth and 7 THAT the Company be generally and, subject as Income shares in the capital of the Company at a price hereinafter appears, unconditionally authorised in below the net asset value per share of the existing Growth accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 and Income shares in issue, provided always that such the Act to make market purchases within the meaning issues will be limited to: of Section 163 of the Act of its issued Growth shares and i up to an aggregate nominal amount of Income shares both being classes of ordinary shares in approximately 927,144, being approximately 10% the capital of the Company of the issued share capital of the Growth and PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT Income share classes in issue at the date of the passing of this resolution: and i the maximum number of Growth and Income shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be ii the sale of shares which, immediately before such 22,723,002 or 10,145,580 respectively, or, if different, sale, were held by the Company as Treasury shares.
that number of Growth and Income shares which is Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on sale of shares equal to 14.99% of the issued share capital of the from treasury Special Resolution relevant share class as at the date of the passing of this Resolution: 9 THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 8 set out above, the Directors of the Company be and they are ii the minimum price which may be paid for any hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Act to Growth or Income share shall be 5p or 2.5p allot within the meaning of Section 94 3A of the Act respectively: equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 2 of iii the maximum price which may be paid for any the Act wholly for cash as if Section 89 1 of the Act did ordinary share shall be an amount equal to 105% of not apply to any such sale, provided that this power shall the average of the middle market quotations for a T H E C O M P A N Y 73 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes be limited to the allotment within the meaning of These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the reverse of Section 94 3A of the Act of equity securities for cash out the proxy form.
of Treasury up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint 927,144, being approximately 10% of the share capital of another person s who need not be a member of the Company to the Growth and Income share classes in issue as at the exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the Meeting.
date of the passing of this resolution and shall expire on A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to the earlier of the conclusion of the Annual General different shares held by him.
Meeting of the Company to be held in 2009, or fifteen 2 A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must attend months after the date of the passing of this resolution, the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the Chairman, save that the Company may before such expiry make another director of the Company or another person who has agreed to offers, agreements or arrangements which would or might attend to represent you.
Details of how to appoint the Chairman or another person s as your proxy or proxies using the proxy form are set require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry out in the notes to the proxy form.
If a voting box on the proxy form is and so that the Directors of the Company may allot equity left blank, the proxy or proxies will exercise his their discretion both as to securities in pursuance of such offers, agreements or how to vote and whether he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy arrangements as if the power conferred hereby had not must attend the Meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies does not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in expired.
If you attend the Meeting in person, your proxy appointment Adoption of new Articles of Association - Special will automatically be terminated.
Resolution 3 A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under 10 THAT the Articles of Association contained in the section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person.
The document produced to the meeting and signed by the rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
However, a Nominated Chairman for the purposes of identification, be approved Person may have a right under an agreement between him and the and adopted as the new Articles of Association of the member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the Company, in substitution for and to the exclusion of, the Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person existing Articles of Association, with effect from the does not have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a conclusion of the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Authority to make off-market purchases 4 Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in Special Resolution accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form.
5 You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy 11 THAT the proposed Contingent Purchase contract appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments see between Winterflood Securities Limited and JPMorgan above also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to European Investment Trust plc to enable the Company to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant make off-market purchases of its own securities pursuant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid separate to Section 164 and 165 of the Companies Act 1985 in the appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same Meeting, the one which is last sent shall be treated as form produced at the meeting and initialled by the replacing and revoking the other or others.
Chairman, be and is hereby approved and the Company 6 To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of be and is hereby authorised to enter into and perform the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may such contract, but so that the approval and authority cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members conferred by this resolution shall expire on the day as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the Meeting the specified time.
If the immediately preceding the date which is 18 months after Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, the next Annual apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to General Meeting of the Company.
attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be By order of the Board entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of prior to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
7 Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
9th June 2008 8 A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint individuals to act as its representatives and to vote in person at the Meeting see instructions T H E C O M P A N Y JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 74 given on the proxy form.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the Meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the Meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the Meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the Meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
Representatives should bring to the Meeting evidence of their appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
9 The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in the share capital of the Company is available for inspection at the Companys registered office during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
10 No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
11 As at 6th June 2008 being the latest business day prior to the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consists of 151,587,741 Growth shares and 67,682,327 Income shares.
Voting rights are calculated by reference to the share voting numbers which, as at 31st March 2008, were 2.36 Growth and 1.05 Income.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company are 387,349,713 the shares held in Treasury, totalling 14,673,813 Growth shares and 6,508,190 Income shares, do not carry voting rights.
Electronic appointment CREST members CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
