JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 78 Glossary of Terms Return to shareholders Discount Premium Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to midIf the share price of an investment company is lower than the market price basis, assuming that all dividends received net NAV per share, the Companys shares are said to be trading at of tax were reinvested in the shares of the Company at the a discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV.
time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Transaction costs of The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common reinvestment are not taken into account.
for an investment Companys shares to trade at a discount than a premium.
Return on net assets Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on a bid Performance Attribution value to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded by the Company net of tax were reinvested in the shares of performance relative to its benchmark.
the Company at time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Performance Attribution Definitions: Benchmark Return Allocation Effect Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received the benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different net of tax were reinvested in the shares of the underlying countries, sectors or asset types.
companies at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Selection Effect The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of investment universe.
The Companys investment strategy investing in securities outside of the benchmark.
does not follow or track this index and consequently, there Gearing Cash Effect may be some divergence between the Companys Measures the impact on returns of borrowings or cash performance and that of the stated index.
balances on the Companys relative performance.
Actual Gearing Factor Fees Expenses Investments expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total This shows the effect of gearing on the net asset value if the assets, and therefore has a negative effect on relative market value of the portfolio was to increase by 100%.
Total Expense Ratio TER Management fees and all other operating expenses, excluding Residual interest expressed as a percentage of the average of the Arises when there is a divergence between total return as opening and closing net assets.
The method of calculating the calculated by Fundamental Data includes dividends paid out TER has been changed and prior years restated.
In prior years by the Investment Trust and total return from the attribution the TER was: management fees and all other operating systems includes dividend income received in on the stocks expenses including tax relief where applicable but excluding held by the Investment Trust.
This is a result of interest expressed as a percentage of the average month end methodologies and timing differences.
The reason for the change is to bring Share Buybacks the method into line with industry practice and to make the Measures the effect on relative performance of decreasing the calculation more transparent, as all the numbers now used in number of shares in issue.
the calculation are extracted from the audited accounts.
T H E C O M P A N Y 79 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Notes T H E C O M P A N Y JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 80 Notes T H E C O M P A N Y 81 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Notes T H E C O M P A N Y JPMorgan Helpline Freephone 0800 20 40 20 or 0207 742 9999 8.30 am to 5.30 pm Monday to Friday JPMorgan Pension Helpline Freephone 0800 41 31 76 or 0172 241 4888 9.00 am to 5. oo pm Monday to Friday Please use this number if you have any queries relating to the Pension Account.
Your telephone call may be recorded for your security www.
