69 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Capital Structure and Conversion between Share Classes The Company has two share classes, each with distinct Conversion between the share classes investment policies, objectives and underlying asset pools.
Those who hold shares through the JPM Investment Trust Each share class is listed separately and traded on the London Share Plan PEP ISA or Pension Account must submit a Stock Exchange.
This capital structure means that conversion instruction form which can be found at shareholders may benefit from greater investment flexibility www.
Instructions for CREST holders can in a tax-efficient manner.
also be found at this address.
Those who hold shares in certificated form on the main register must complete the Capital Structure conversion notice printed on the reverse of their certificate.
Growth Shares Instructions must be received in the month of August for Capital growth from Continental European investments, by September conversions and in the month of February for consistent out-performance of the benchmark and a rising March conversions.
share price over the longer term by taking carefully controlled risks through an investment method that is clearly The number of shares that will arise upon conversion will be communicated to shareholders.
determined on the basis of the relative net asset values of each share class.
Income Shares To provide a growing income together with the potential for More details concerning conversion dates and conversion long-term capital growth from a diversified portfolio of instruction forms can be found on the Companys web site: investments in pan-european stockmarkets.
Conversion Opportunities Shareholders in either of the two share classes are able to convert some or all of their shares into shares of the other classes without such conversion being treated, under current law, as a disposal for UK capital gains tax purposes.
The conversion mechanism allows shareholders to alter their investment profile to match their changing investment needs in a tax-efficient manner.
Conversion dates arise every six months on 15th September and 15th March if such a date is not a business day, then the conversion date will move to the next business day.
The Company, or its Manager, makes no administrative charge for any of the above conversions.
