50 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Glossary of Terms Total Return to Shareholders Performance Attribution Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded mid-market price basis, assuming that all dividends received performance relative to its benchmark.
were reinvested in the shares of the Company at the time the Performance Attribution Definitions: shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Transaction costs of reinvestment are not taken into account.
Stock Sector Selection Measures the effect of investing in securities sectors to a Total Return on Net Assets greater or lesser extent than their weighting in the Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on a bid benchmark, or of investing in securities outside of the value to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out benchmark.
by the Company were reinvested in the shares of the Company at the NAV per share at the time the shares were Gearing Cash quoted ex-dividend.
Measures the impact on returns of borrowings or cash balances on the Companys relative performance.
Benchmark Total Return Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to Management Fees Other Expenses mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total net of tax were reinvested in the shares of the underlying assets, and therefore has a negative effect on relative companies at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should Share Repurchases not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys Measures the effect on relative performance of decreasing the investment universe.
The Companys investment strategy number of shares in issue.
does not follow or track this index and consequently, there may be some divergence between the Companys Residual performance and that of the stated index.
Arises when there is a divergence between total return as calculated by Fundamental Data includes dividends paid out Actual Gearing Factor by the Investment Trust and total return from the Investments excluding holdings in liquidity funds, expressed attribution systems includes dividend income received in on as a percentage of shareholders funds.
This shows the effect the stocks held by the Investment Trust.
This is a result of of gearing on the net asset value if the market value of the methodologies and timing differences.
portfolio was to increase by 100%.
Weighted Contribution Total Expense Ratio TER Measures the effect of investing or not investing in a security Management fees and all other operating expenses, excluding relative to its position and performance within the interest and performance fees, expressed as a percentage of benchmark.
the average of the opening and closing net assets.
Discount Premium If the share price of an investment company is lower than the NAV per share, the trust is said to be trading at a discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an investment company to trade at a discount than a premium.
