JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 51 Notice of Meeting business days immediately preceding the day on Notice is hereby given that the ninetywhich the share is purchased: or b the price of the third Annual General Meeting of last independent trade: or c the highest current JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc independent bid: will be held at Trinity House, Tower Hill, iv any purchase of shares will be made in the market for London EC3N 4DH at 2.30 p. m. on cash or prices below the prevailing NAV per share as Thursday 7th May 2009 for the following determined by the Directors : purposes: v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 5th November 2010 unless the authority is renewed at 1 To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2010 or at the Auditors Report for the year ended 31st December any other general meeting prior to such time: and 2008. vi the Company may make or contract to purchase 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to year ended 31st December 2008. the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase 3 To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares of of shares pursuant to any such contract 11.0 pence per share.
4 To re-elect Kate Bolsover as a Director of the Company.
Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution 5 To re-elect Hamish Buchan as a Director of the Company.
8 THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution 6 To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors to the Company of any authorities previously granted to the Directors, and to authorise the Directors to determine their pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the remuneration.
Act to exercise all the powers for the Company to allot Special Business relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 of the To consider the following resolutions: Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 534,074, representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this Resolution resolution, provided that this authority shall expire at the 7 THAT the Company be generally and subject as conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised in to be held in 2010 unless renewed at a general meeting prior accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to such time, save that the Company may before such expiry the Act to make market purchases within the meaning make offers, agreements or arrangements which would or of Section 163 of the Act of its issued shares of 25p each might require relevant securities to be allotted after such in the capital of the Company ordinary shares.
expiry and so that the Directors of the Company may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offers, agreements PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT or arrangements as if the authority conferred hereby had i the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to not expired.
be purchased shall be 6,404,619 or if less, that number of shares which is equal to 14.99% of the Companys Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of issued share capital as at the date of the passing of this relevant securities Special Resolution resolution: 9 THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 8 set out above, the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Act to allot shall be 25p: equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the iii the maximum price which may be paid for a share Act pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 8 or shall be an amount equal to the highest of a 105% by way of a sale of Treasury shares as if Section 89 1 of the of the average of the middle market quotations for a Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this share taken from and calculated by reference to the power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 534,074, 52 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Notice of Meeting continued also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to representing approximately 5% of the issued ordinary terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant share capital as at the date of the passing of this resolution deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid separate at a price of not less than the net asset value per share and appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General respect of the same meeting, the one which is last sent shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others.
Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010 unless 6 To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of renewed at a general meeting prior to such time, save that the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may the Company may before such expiry make offers, cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members agreements or arrangements which would or might require as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the meeting the specified time.
If the equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and so that meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original meeting, that time will also apply for the the Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote pursuant of such offers, agreements or arrangements as if and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast the power conferred hereby had not expired.
If however the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned By order of the Board meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
Andrew Norman, for and on behalf of 7 Entry to the above Meeting will be restricted to shareholders, with guests JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, admitted only by prior arrangement.
Secretary 8 A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint individuals to act as 17 March 2009 its representatives and to vote in person at the meeting see instructions given on the proxy form.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, Notes arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the reverse of shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate the proxy form.
representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives another person s who need not be a member of the Company to will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the meeting.
or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate different shares held by him.
shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its 2 A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must attend corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the Chairman, another nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will director of the Company or another person who has agreed to attend to vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting represent you.
Details of how to appoint the Chairman or another directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate person s as your proxy or proxies using the proxy form are set out in the shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of notes to the proxy form.
If the box on the proxy form is left blank, the Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate proxy or proxies will exercise his their discretion both as to how to vote representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
and whether he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy must attend the The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies does not Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
If you Representatives should bring to the meeting evidence of their attend the Meeting in person, your proxy appointment will automatically appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
9 The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in the 3 A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons who share capital of the Company is available for inspection at the Companys have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under registered office during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person.
The and public holidays excepted.
It will also be available for inspection at rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a Nominated Person: the Annual General Meeting.
they can only be exercised by the member.
However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between him and the member by 10 No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
whom he was nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person does not have 11 As at 16 March 2009 being the latest business day prior to the such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consists of such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise 42,725,949 shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total voting of voting rights.
rights in the Company are 42,725,949.
4 Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in Electronic appointment CREST members accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting and 5 You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments see above Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
JPMorgan Helpline Freephone 0800 20 40 20 or 020 7742 9999 9.00 am to 5.3o pm Monday to Friday JPMorgan Pension Helpline Freephone 0800 41 31 76 or 0172 241 4888 9.00 am to 5.0o pm Monday to Friday Please use this number if you have any queries relating to the Pension Account.
Your telephone call may be recorded for your security www.
