JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 27 Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and and the accounts in accordance with applicable law and integrity of the corporate and financial information included regulations.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for financial statements may differ from legislation in other each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected jurisdictions.
to prepare the accounts in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom The accounts are published on the www.
co. uk Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The accounts are website, which is maintained by the Companys Manager, required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained Company for that period.
In preparing these accounts, the by JPMAM is, so far as it relates to the Company, the Directors are required to: responsibility of JPMAM.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Statement under the Disclosure & Transparency Rules consistently: 4.1.
12 make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and The Directors each confirm to the best of their knowledge prudent: that: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have a the accounts, prepared in accordance with applicable been followed, subject to any material departures accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will b this Annual Report includes a fair review of the continue in business.
development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act For and on behalf of the Board 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of Hamish Buchan the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the Chairman prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
