JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 27 Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report The accounts are published on the and the accounts in accordance with applicable law and www.
co. uk website, which is regulations.
maintained by the Companys Manager, JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
The maintenance Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for and integrity of the website maintained by JPMAM is, so far each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have elected as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of JPMAM.
to prepare the accounts in accordance with United Kingdom The work carried out by the auditors does not involve Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The accounts are website and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of for any changes that have occurred to the accounts since they affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the were initially presented on the website.
The accounts are Company for that period.
In preparing these accounts, the prepared in accordance with UK legislation, which may differ Directors are required to: from legislation in other jurisdictions select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Statement under the Disclosure & Transparency Rules 4.1.
12 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and The Directors each confirm to the best of their knowledge prudent: that: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have a the accounts, prepared in accordance with applicable been followed, subject to any material departures accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the disclosed and explained in the accounts: and assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it Company: and is inappropriate to presume that the Company will b this Annual Report includes a fair review of the continue in business.
development and performance of the business and the The Directors confirm that they comply with these position of the Company, together with a description of requirements.
the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act For and on behalf of the Board 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of Roy Reynolds, the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the Chairman prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
