50 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Notice of Meeting Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of Notice is hereby given that the Seventeenth relevant securities Special Resolution Annual General Meeting of JPMorgan 10 THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 9 set out above, Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc will the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby be held at the Salters Hall, 4 Fore Street, empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the London EC2Y 5DE on 6th November 2008 Act pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 9 at 3.00 p. m. for the following purposes: or by way of a sale of Treasury shares as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that 1 To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity the Auditors Report for the year ended 30th June 2008. securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the 1,378,796, representing approximately 5% of the issued year ended 30th June 2008. ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this resolution at a price of not less than the net asset value per 3 To approve a final dividend of 2.00p per share.
share and shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual 4 To re-elect Nigel Kenny as a Director of the Company.
General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2009 5 To re-elect David Gamble as a Director of the Company.
unless renewed at a general meeting prior to such time, save that the Company may before such expiry make 6 To re-elect Roy Reynolds as a Director of the Company.
offers, agreements or arrangements which would or might 7 To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors to require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine and so that the Directors of the Company may allot equity their remuneration.
securities in pursuant of such offers, agreements or arrangements as if the power conferred hereby had not Special Business expired.
To consider the following resolutions: Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special Continuation vote Ordinary Resolution Resolution 8 THAT the Company continue in existence as an 11 THAT the Company be generally and, subject as investment trust for a further three year period.
hereinafter appears, unconditionally authorised in Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning 9 THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are of Section 163 of the Act of its issued ordinary shares of hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, in 25 pence each in the capital of the Company.
substitution of any authorities previously granted to the Directors, pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT 1985 the Act to exercise all the powers for the Company i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby to allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section authorised to be purchased shall be 16,534,530 or if 80 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of less, that number of shares which is equal to 14.99% 1,378,796, representing approximately 5% of the of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the date of the date of the passing of this Resolution: the passing of this resolution, provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Meeting of the Company to be held in 2009 unless ordinary share will be 25 pence: renewed at a general meeting prior to such time, save that iii the maximum price which may be paid for an the Company may before such expiry make offers, ordinary share shall be an amount equal to the agreements or arrangements which would or might highest of a 105% of the average of the middle require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry market quotations for an ordinary share taken from and so that the Directors of the Company may allot and calculated by reference to the London Stock relevant securities in pursuance of such offers, agreements Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days or arrangements as if the authority conferred hereby had immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary not expired.
share is purchased or b the price of the last independent trade: or c the highest current independent bid: JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 51 iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be made in the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per ordinary share as determined by the Directors : v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 5th May 2010 unless the authority is renewed at the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2009 or at any other general meeting prior to such time: and vi the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract notwithstanding such expiry.
Adoption of new Articles of Association Special Resolution 12 THAT the Articles of Association, contained in the document produced to the meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purposes of identification, be approved and adopted as the new Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association, with effect from the conclusion of the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, Secretary 26th September 2008 52 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Notice of Meeting continued Notes 8 A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint individuals to act as These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the reverse of its representatives and to vote in person at the Meeting see instructions the proxy form.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the Meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint Meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the another person s who need not be a member of the Company to Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate representative with instructions exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the Meeting.
to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Meeting, corporate representatives for that shareholder at the Meeting, then on a provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the different shares held by him.
Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than 2 A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must attend one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the Chairman, another the Meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the director of the Company or another person who has agreed to attend to Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate representative, a designated represent you.
Details of how to appoint the Chairman or another corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate person s as your proxy or proxies using the proxy form are set out in the representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other notes to the proxy form.
If a voting box on the proxy form is left blank, corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated the proxy or proxies will exercise his their discretion both as to how to corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the vote and whether he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy must attend guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and the Meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies does Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance you attend the Meeting in person, your proxy appointment will includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being automatically be terminated.
appointed as described in i above.
3 A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons who Representatives should bring to the Meeting evidence of their have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a Nominated Person: 9 The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in the they can only be exercised by the member.
However, a Nominated Person share capital of the Company is available for inspection at the Companys may have a right under an agreement between him and the member by registered office during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, whom he was nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the Meeting or Sundays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be available for to have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person does not have inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise 10 No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
11 As at 25th September 2008 being the latest business day prior to the 4 Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consists of accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form.
110,303,742 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company are 110,303,742.
5 You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments see above Electronic appointment CREST members also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting and deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid separate any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
respect of the same Meeting, the one which is last sent shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others.
6 To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the Meeting the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
7 Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
