JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 53 Appendix Explanatory Notes to Resolution 12 5.
Attending and speaking at meetings Article 56 The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, which is replacing Article 56 of the new Articles provides that the Chairman of the Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act is being the meeting may permit non-members or persons who are implemented in stages and will be fully in force by 1st not entitled to exercise the rights of members to attend and, October 2009.
Under resolution 13, the Company is at the Chairman's discretion, speak at a general meeting.
proposing to adopt new Articles of Association the new 6.
Polls Article 62 Articles which will reflect the changes in company law Article 62 clarifies that a poll may be demanded before a brought about by the 2006 Act which are already in force or show of hands, as well as immediately after the result of a which are to come into effect on 1st October 2008, as well as show of hands, and to give the directors the right to demand some minor technical or clarifying changes.
The new Articles a poll as well as the Chairman of the meeting.
will also generally update the Articles of Association for current law regulation and market practice.
Votes of members, proxies and corporate 1.
Transfer of shares Articles 31 and 32 representatives Articles 69, 74 and 81 Under the 2006 Act, a company must either register a transfer Under the 2006 Act, proxies are entitled to vote on a show of or give the transferee notice of, and reasons for, its refusal to hands as well as on a poll, and members may appoint a proxy register the transfer.
Any registration of a transfer or notice of to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote refusal must be made or given as soon as practicable and in at meetings.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that any event within two months from the date that the transfer each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a is lodged with the company.
The new Articles reflect these different share or shares.
The new Articles reflect these new requirements.
The 2006 Act also provides for multiple corporate representatives to be appointed and the Articles 2.
Disclosure of interests Article 41 therefore refer to the right to appoint multiple corporate The provisions relating to the disclosure of interests in shares representatives.
contained in the 1985 Act, including Section 212 on company 8.
Receipt of appointments of proxy and termination of investigation powers, were repealed in January 2007.
Section proxy authority Articles 78 and 79 793 and related sections in Part 22 of the 2006 Act, which Article 78 provides that proxies for a poll to be taken after the contain the corresponding company investigation powers date of a meeting or adjourned meeting must be received not previously contained in Section 212, were brought into force less than 24 hours, or such shorter time as the directors may simultaneously.
Article 41 reflects the replacement of Section determine, before the time of the poll.
The deadlines for 212 of the 1985 Act with Section 793 of the 2006 Act.
receipt of termination of proxy authority have been brought 3.
Notice of general meetings Articles 48 and 49 into line with the deadlines for receipt of proxies.
Article 78 The provisions in the new Articles dealing with the convening also permits the directors to specify, in a notice of meeting, of general meetings and the length of notice required to that in determining the time for delivery of proxies, no convene general meetings are in line with the relevant account shall be taken of non-working days.
Directors appointments, interests and conflicts of other than the annual general meeting to consider a special interest Articles 103 and 104 resolution can be convened on 14 days notice whereas The 2006 Act sets out directors general duties which largely previously 21 days notice was required.
codify the existing law but with some changes.
Under the The amendment to Article 49 deals with situations where, 2006 Act, from 1st October 2008 a director has a statutory because of a postal strike or similar situation beyond the duty to avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct control of the Company, a notice of meeting is not received or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, by a shareholder.
This ensures that such failure does not with the companys interests.
The requirement is very broad invalidate proceedings at the meeting in question.
and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
Quorum Article 50 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise Article 50 makes it clear that two persons who are proxies for conflicts and potential conflicts where appropriate, if the the same member or representatives of the same body articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The corporate can constitute a quorum.
2006 Act also allows the articles to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
54 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Appendix continued Article 103, which is the provision for dealing with conflicts, 12 The seal Articles 118 and 119 allowing directors to be interested in transactions and to be Article 118 provides that instruments other than share an officer of or employed by or interested in a body corporate certificates to which the seal is affixed shall be signed by two in which the company is interested.
It confirms that such authorised persons or by a director in the presence of a interests, offices or employment will not infringe the conflicts witness, whereas previously the requirement was for duty as codified in the 2006 Act.
signature by either the director and secretary or two directors.
Article 104 gives the directors authority to approve conflict situations including other directorships held by the 13.
Notices and other communications Articles 77, company's directors and include other provisions to allow 133-142 conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the The 2006 Act enables companies to communicate with their current position.
members by electronic communication to a greater extent There are safeguards that will apply when directors decide than previously permitted.
Article 134 will provide the whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, Company with a general power to send or supply any notice, only directors who have no interest in the matter being document or information to any member by a variety of considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and methods in person, by post or in electronic form such as secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act in a by email, or by making it available on the Companys way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to website.
In addition to any notice, document or information promote the company's success.
The directors will be able to which is specifically required to be sent or supplied under the impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they 2006 Act, the Company will also be able to send any other think this is appropriate.
document or information to members using this variety of methods.
The proposed Article 104 also contains provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at board meetings and Article 77 allows proxies to be sent or supplied in electronic availability of board papers to protect a director from being form and, where the Company gives an electronic address in in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict a form of proxy, shareholders may send the appointment of of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the proxy to that electronic address, subject to any conditions or position giving rise to the potential conflict has previously limitations specified in the relevant notice of meeting.
been authorised by the directors.
The Company may ask each member for his or her consent It is the Boards intention to report annually on the to receive communications from the Company via its website.
Company's procedures for ensuring that the Board's powers If the member does not respond to the request for consent of authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and that within 28 days, the Company may take that as consent by the the procedures have been followed.
member to receive communications in this way.
If the Company sends or supplies any notice, document or 10.
Permitted interests and voting Article 113 information to members by making it available on the The provisions which previously deemed certain interests of a Companys website, it must notify each member who has directors connected persons to be the interests of the director consented or is deemed to have consented to receive himself for the purposes of this article have been deleted.
documents via the website, either by post or by email if the There is no requirement in the 2006 Act to include such a member has specifically agreed to receive communications in provision and the 2006 Act contains a much wider definition electronic form, that the notice, document or information of connected person of a director.
The director and the has been placed on the website.
A member who has Company must still take a view each time a matter is being consented or is deemed to have consented to receive considered as to whether the interests of the director's communications via the website can request a hard copy of connected persons mean that the director should be treated any document at any time.
Members can also revoke their as interested for the purposes of this article.
consent to receive electronic communications at any time by giving notice in writing to the Company.
Making and retention of minutes Article 116 In relation to joint holders of shares, Article 134 3 provides Article 116 contains a new provision to the effect that that the agreement of the first-named holder on the register minutes must be retained for at least 10 years, reflecting the of members to accept notices, documents or information relevant provision of the 2006 Act.
No minimum retention electronically or via a website shall be binding on the other time was previously specified.
Article 134 4 permits the Company not to send or supply any notice, document or information to a JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 55 member whose registered address is not in the United may, subject to the provisions of the 2006 Act, indemnify a Kingdom unless that member gives a non-electronic address director of an associated company that is the trustee of an in the United Kingdom.
occupational pension scheme, taking advantage of the qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision in the 2006 Articles 134 5 and 6 cater for situations where the Act.
provision of corporate information in electronic form or via a website may amount to a breach of securities laws of another jurisdiction.
The Company may send hard copies if it needs to restrict the circulation of information in certain circumstances, such as for US securities law reasons.
Article 141 deals with notices, documents or information sent by the Company to a member which have been returned undelivered on three consecutive occasions.
The member will only be entitled to be sent further communications upon provision of a new postal or electronic address to the Company.
Article 142 is included to deal with the validation of documents in electronic form by members where required by the Articles.
In the case of notices of meetings or proxies, any validation requirements must be specified in the notice.
Power to indemnify directors Article 147 The law governing the giving by a company of indemnities to directors of that company or an associated company was amended in 2005 and further amended by the 2006 Act.
In particular, a company may now, inter alia, do the following: i in the case of liabilities arising from actions brought by third parties other than regulatory authorities or criminal prosecutors, both the costs of the director and of the third party and any damages may be paid by the company even if the judgement goes against the director: ii in the case of liabilities arising from actions brought by the company or an associated company, the company will not be able to indemnify a director against damages awarded to the company itself but may pay the directors' defence costs as they are incurred although a director would be liable to repay his defence costs if his defence was to be unsuccessful : iii the company will not be permitted to indemnify directors against criminal fines, fines by regulators or the legal costs of successful criminal proceedings against directors: and iv a company may, subject to the provisions of the 2006 Act, indemnify a director of an associated company that is the trustee of an occupational pension scheme, taking advantage of the qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision in the 2006 Act.
As a result of the above, the directors indemnity provisions of the Articles of Association have been amended.
Article 147 has now been drafted as a permissive provision that gives the Company a broad power to indemnify a director, subject to the provisions of the 2006 Act.
Article 147 also permits the maintenance by the Company of liability insurance for directors and it specifically makes it clear that the Company
