56 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Glossary of Terms Return to Shareholders Performance Attribution Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to midAnalysis of how the Company achieved its recorded market price basis, assuming that all dividends received were performance relative to its benchmark.
reinvested in the shares of the Company at the time the Performance Attribution Definitions: shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Transaction costs of reinvestment are not taken into account.
Asset Allocation Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those Return on Net Assets in the benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different Total return on net asset value the NAV per share, on a bid countries, sectors or asset types.
value to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out by the Company were reinvested in the NAV of the Company Stock Selection at time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of Benchmark Return investing in securities outside of the benchmark.
Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received Gearing Cash were reinvested in the shares of the underlying companies at Measures the impact on returns of borrowings or cash the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
balances on the Companys relative performance.
The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should Currency not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys Measures the impact of currency exposure differences investment universe.
The Companys investment strategy between the Companys portfolio and its benchmark.
does not follow or track this index and consequently, there may be some divergence between the Companys Management Fees Other Expenses performance and that of the stated index.
The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total assets and therefore has a negative effect on relative Actual Gearing Factor performance.
Investments, excluding holdings in liquidity funds, expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
This shows the effect Performance Fees of gearing on the net asset value if the market value of the The outperformance of the Company against the benchmark portfolio was to increase by 100%.
leads to an increase in performance fees accrued.
The increase in this accrual has a negative impact on relative performance.
Total Expense Ratio TER Management fees and all other operating expenses, excluding Residual interest, expressed as a percentage of the average of the Arises when there is a divergence between total return as opening and closing net assets.
The method of calculating the calculated by Fundamental Data includes dividends paid out TER has been changed and prior years restated.
In prior years by the Company and total return from the attribution the TER was management fees and all other operating systems includes dividend income received in on the stocks expenses including tax relief where applicable but excluding held by the Company.
This is a result of methodologies and interest expressed as a percentage of the average month end timing differences.
The reason for the change is to bring the method into line with industry practice and to make the calculation more transparent, as all the numbers now used in the calculation are extracted from the audited accounts.
Discount Premium If the share price of an investment company is lower than the NAV per share, the Companys shares are said to be trading at a discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an investment company to trade at a discount than a premium.
JPMorgan Helpline Freephone 0800 20 40 20 or 0207 742 9999 9.00 am to 5.30 pm Monday to Friday JPMorgan Pension Helpline Freephone 0800 41 31 76 or 0172 241 4888 9.00 am to 5. oo pm Monday to Friday Please use this number if you have any queries relating to the Pension Account.
Your telephone call may be recorded for your security www.
