J JPMor PMorgan Fleming Mer gan Fleming Mercantile Inv cantile Investment estment T Trust plc rust plc Annual R Annual Repor eport & Accounts 2008 t & Accounts 2008 51 51 Appendix Explanatory Notes to Resolution 9 5.
Attending and speaking at meetings Article 55 The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, which is replacing Article 55 of the new Articles now provides that the the Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act is being Chairman of the meeting may permit non-members or implemented in stages and will be fully in force by 1st persons who are not entitled to exercise the rights of October 2009.
Under resolution 9, the Company is proposing members to attend and, at the Chairmans discretion, speak at to adopt new Articles of Association the new Articles which a general meeting.
will reflect the changes in company law brought about by the 6.
Polls Article 61 2006 Act which are already in force or which are to come into Article 61 clarifies that a poll may be demanded before a show effect on 1st October 2008, as well as some minor technical or of hands, as well as immediately after the result of a show of clarifying changes.
The new Articles will also generally update hands, and to give the Directors the right to demand a poll as the Articles of Association for current law, regulation and well as the Chairman of the meeting.
Votes of members, proxies and corporate 1.
Transfer of shares Articles 31 and 32 representatives Articles 68, 73 and 80 Under the 2006 Act, a company must either register a transfer Under the 2006 Act, proxies are entitled to vote on a show of or give the transferee notice of, and reasons for, its refusal to hands as well as on a poll, and members may appoint a proxy register the transfer.
Any registration of a transfer or notice of to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote refusal must be made or given as soon as practicable and in at meetings.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that any event within two months from the date that the each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a transfer is lodged with the Company.
The new Articles reflect different share or shares.
The new Articles reflect these new these requirements.
The 2006 Act also provides for multiple 2.
Disclosure of interests Article 40 corporate representatives to be appointed and the The provisions relating to the disclosure of interests in shares Articles therefore refer to the right to appoint multiple contained in the 1985 Act, including Section 212 on company corporate representatives.
investigation powers, were repealed in January 2007.
Receipt of appointments of proxy and termination of 793 and related sections in Part 22 of the 2006 Act, which proxy authority Articles 77 and 78 contain the corresponding company investigation powers Article 77 provides that proxies for a poll to be taken after the previously contained in Section 212, were brought into force date of a meeting or adjourned meeting must be received not simultaneously.
Article 40 reflects the replacement of Section less than 24 hours, or such shorter time as the Directors may 212 of the 1985 Act with Section 793 of the 2006 Act.
determine, before the time of the poll.
Notice of general meetings Articles 46 and 47 receipt of termination of proxy authority have been brought The provisions in the new Articles dealing with the convening into line with the deadlines for receipt of proxies.
Article 77 of general meetings and the length of notice required to also permits the Directors to specify, in a notice of meeting, convene general meetings are in line with the relevant that in determining the time for delivery of proxies, no provisions of the 2006 Act.
In particular, a general meeting account shall be taken of non-working days.
other than the annual general meeting to consider a special 9.
Directors appointments, interests and conflicts of resolution can be convened on 14 days notice whereas interest Articles 103 and 104 previously 21 days notice was required.
The 2006 Act sets out Directors general duties which largely The amendment to Article 47 deals with situations where, codify the existing law but with some changes.
Under the because of a postal strike or similar situation beyond the 2006 Act, from 1st October 2008 a Director has a statutory control of the Company, a notice of meeting is not received duty to avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or by a shareholder.
The amendment will ensure that such indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with failure does not invalidate proceedings at the meeting the Companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and in question.
could apply, for example, if a Director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
Quorum Article 49 2006 Act allows Directors of public companies to authorise Article 49 has been amended to make it clear that two or conflicts and potential conflicts where appropriate, if the more persons who are proxies for the same member or articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The representatives of the same body corporate can both all count 2006 Act also allows the articles to contain other provisions towards a quorum.
5 52 2 J JPMor PMorgan Fleming Mer gan Fleming Mercantile Inv cantile Investment estment T Trust plc rust plc Annual R Annual Repor eport & Accounts 2008 t & Accounts 2008 Appendix continued for dealing with Directors conflicts of interest to avoid a 11.
Making and retention of minutes Article 116 breach of duty.
Article 116 contains a new provision to the effect that minutes must be retained for at least 10 years, reflecting the relevant Article 103, which is the provision for dealing with conflicts provision of the 2006 Act.
No minimum retention time was in our current articles, allowing Directors to be interested in previously specified.
transactions and to be an officer of or employed by or interested in a body corporate in which the Company is 12.
The seal Articles 118 and 119 interested, confirms that such interests, offices or employment Article 118 provides that instruments other than share will not infringe the conflicts duty as codified in the 2006 Act.
certificates to which the seal is affixed shall be signed by two authorised persons or by a Director in the presence of a Article 104 gives the Directors authority to approve conflict witness, whereas previously the requirement was for signature situations including other directorships held by the by either the Director and secretary or two Directors.
Companys Directors and include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the 13.
Removal of age limit for Directors current position.
The provision requiring a Directors age to be disclosed, in a notice of meeting at which that Director is to be appointed or There are safeguards that will apply when Directors decide reappointed, if that Director has attained the age of 70 years whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only or more, has been removed from the new Articles to reflect Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered the repeal of the previous provisions regarding Directors over will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in 70 from the 1985 Act.
taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the 14.
Notices and other communications Articles 76, Companys success.
The Directors will be able to impose 135-143 limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think The 2006 Act enables companies to communicate with their this is appropriate.
members by electronic communication to a greater extent than previously permitted.
Article 135 will provide the The proposed Article 104 also contains provisions relating to Company with a general power to send or supply any notice, confidential information, attendance at board meetings and document or information to any member by a variety of availability of board papers to protect a Director from being methods in person, by post or in electronic form such as in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict by email, or by making it available on the Companys of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the website.
In addition to any notice, document or information position giving rise to the potential conflict has previously which is specifically required to be sent or supplied under the been authorised by the Directors.
2006 Act, the Company will also be able to send any other It is the Boards intention to report annually on the document or information to members using this variety Companys procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers of methods.
of authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and that Article 76 allows proxies to be sent or supplied in electronic the procedures have been followed.
form and, where the Company gives an electronic address in a 10.
Permitted interests and voting Article 113 form of proxy, shareholders may send the appointment of The provisions which previously deemed certain interests of a proxy to that electronic address, subject to any conditions or Directors connected persons to be the interests of the limitations specified in the relevant notice of meeting.
Director himself for the purposes of this article have been The Company may ask each member for his or her consent to deleted.
There is no requirement in the 2006 Act to include receive communications from the Company via its website.
If such a provision and the 2006 Act contains a much wider the member does not respond to the request for consent definition of connected person of a Director.
The Director within 28 days, the Company may take that as consent by the and the Company must still take a view each time a matter is member to receive communications in this way.
If the being considered as to whether the interests of the Directors Company sends or supplies any notice, document or connected persons mean that the Director should be treated information to members by making it available on the as interested for the purposes of this article.
Companys website, it must notify each member who has J JPMor PMorgan Fleming Mer gan Fleming Mercantile Inv cantile Investment estment T Trust plc rust plc Annual R Annual Repor eport & Accounts 2008 t & Accounts 2008 53 53 consented or is deemed to have consented to receive liabilities arising from actions brought by the company or an documents via the website, either by post or by email if the associated company, the company will not be able to member has specifically agreed to receive communications in indemnify a Director against damages awarded to the electronic form, that the notice, document or information Company itself but may pay the Directors defence costs as has been placed on the website.
A member who has consented they are incurred although a Director would be liable to or is deemed to have consented to receive communications repay his defence costs if his defence was to be unsuccessful : via the website can request a hard copy of any document at iii the company will not be permitted to indemnify any time.
Members can also revoke their consent to receive Directors against criminal fines, fines by regulators or the electronic communications at any time by giving notice in legal costs of successful criminal proceedings against writing to the Company.
Directors: and iv a company may, subject to the provisions of the 2006 Act, indemnify a Director of an associated In relation to joint holders of shares, Article 135 3 provides company that is the trustee of an occupational pension that the agreement of the first-named holder on the register scheme, taking advantage of the qualifying pension scheme of members to accept notices, documents or information indemnity provision in the 2006 Act.
electronically or via a website shall be binding on the other joint holders.
Article 135 4 permits the Company not to send As a result of the above, the Directors indemnity provisions or supply any notice, document or information to a member of the Articles of Association have been amended.
Article 146 whose registered address is not in the United Kingdom has now been drafted as a permissive provision that gives the unless that member gives a non-electronic address in the Company a broad power to indemnify a Director, subject to United Kingdom.
the provisions of the 2006 Act.
Article 146 also permits the maintenance by the Company of liability insurance for Article 135 5 and 6 cater for situations where the provision Directors and it specifically makes it clear that the Company of corporate information in electronic form or via a website may, subject to the provisions of the 2006 Act, indemnify a may amount to a breach of securities laws of another Director of an associated company that is the trustee of an jurisdiction.
The Company may send hard copies if it needs occupational pension scheme, taking advantage of the to restrict the circulation of information in certain qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision in the circumstances, such as for US securities law reasons.
Article 142 deals with notices, documents or information sent by the Company to a member which have been returned undelivered on three consecutive occasions.
The member will only be entitled to be sent further communications upon provision of a new postal or electronic address to the Company.
Article 143 is included to deal with the validation of documents in electronic form by members where required by the Articles.
In the case of notices of meetings or proxies, any validation requirements must be specified in the notice.
Power to indemnify Directors Article 146 The law governing the giving by a company of indemnities to Directors of that company or an associated company was amended in 2005 and further amended by the 2006 Act.
In particular, a company may now, inter alia, do the following: i in the case of liabilities arising from actions brought by third parties other than regulatory authorities or criminal prosecutors, both the costs of the Director and of the third party and any damages may be paid by the company even if the judgement goes against the Director: ii in the case of 5 54 4 J JPMor PMorgan Fleming Mer gan Fleming Mercantile Inv cantile Investment estment T Trust plc rust plc Annual R Annual Repor eport & Accounts 2008 t & Accounts 2008 Glossary of Terms Return to shareholders Discount Premium Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to midIf the share price of an investment company is lower than the market price basis, assuming that all dividends received net net asset value NAV per share, the trust is said to be trading of tax were reinvested in the shares of the Company at the at a discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more reinvestment are not taken into account.
common for an investment company to trade at a discount than a premium.
Return on net assets Performance Attribution Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on a bid Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded value to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out performance relative to its benchmark.
by the Company net of tax were reinvested in the shares of the Company at time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Performance Attribution Definitions: Allocation Effect Benchmark Return Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to the benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received countries, sectors or asset types.
net of tax were reinvested in the shares of the underlying companies at time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Selection Effect The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of investment universe.
The Companys investment strategy investing in securities outside of the benchmark.
does not follow or track this index and consequently, there may be some divergence between the Companys Gearing Cash Effect performance and that of the stated index.
Measures the impact on returns of borrowings or cash balances on the Companys relative performance.
Actual Gearing Factor Fees Expenses Investments expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of This shows the effect of gearing on the net asset value if the total assets, and therefore has a negative effect on market value of the portfolio was to increase by 100%.
Total Expense Ratio TER Management fees and all other operating expenses excluding Residual interest, expressed as a percentage of the average of the Arises when there is a divergence between total return as opening and closing net assets.
The method of calculating the calculated by Fundamental Data includes dividends paid out TER has been changed and prior years restated.
In prior years by the Investment Trust and total return from the attribution the TER was: Management fees and all other operating systems includes dividend income received in on the stocks expenses including tax relief where applicable but excluding held by the Investment Trust.
This is a result of interest expressed as a percentage of the average month end methodologies and timing differences.
The reason for the change is to bring the method into line with industry practice and to make the Share Buyback calculation more transparent, as all the numbers now used in Measures the effect on relative performance of decreasing the the calculation are extracted from the audited accounts.
number of shares in issue.
JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 55 Notes 56 JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Notes Designed by Fin International.
Printed in England by Henry Good & Son Limited, Basildon, Essex SS14 3DZ JPMorgan Helpline Freephone 0800 20 40 20 or 0207 742 9999 9.00 am to 5.3o pm Monday to Friday JPMorgan Pension Helpline Freephone 0800 41 31 76 or 0172 241 4888 9.00 am to 5. oo pm Monday to Friday Please use this number if you have any queries relating to the Pension Account.
Your telephone call may be recorded for your security www.
