J JPMor PMorgan Fleming Mer gan Fleming Mercantile Inv cantile Investment estment T Trust plc rust plc Annual R Annual Repor eport & Accounts 2008 t & Accounts 2008 49 49 Notice of Meeting iii the maximum price which may be paid for an Notice is hereby given that the one hundred ordinary share or unit shall be an amount equal to and twenty second Annual General Meeting a 105 per cent of the average of the middle market of JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile quotations for an ordinary share taken from and calculated by reference to the London Stock Investment Trust plc will be held at Trinity Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days House, Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH on immediately preceding the day on which the Wednesday 30th April 2008 at 12.00 noon ordinary share is purchased, or b the price of the last independent trade: or c the highest current for the following purposes: independent bid: 1 To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be made in the and the Auditors Report for the year ended 31st January market for cash at prices below the prevailing net 2008. asset value per ordinary share as determined by 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the the Directors : year ended 31st January 2008. v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 30th 3 To re-elect Hamish Leslie Melville a Director of the October 2009 unless the authority is renewed at the Company.
Companys Annual General Meeting in 2009 or at 4 To re-elect Charles Peel a Director of the Company.
any other general meeting prior to such time: and 5 To re-elect Lord Halifax a Director of the Company.
vi the Company may make a contract to purchase 6 To re-appoint  LLP as auditors ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred to the Company and to authorise the Directors to prior to the expiry of such authority and may make a determine their remuneration.
purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract notwithstanding such expiry.
Special Business: Adoption of new Articles of Association - Special Resolution To consider the following resolutions: 9 THAT the Articles of Association, contained in the Change of Company name - Special Resolution document produced to the meeting and signed by the 7 THAT the name of the Company be changed to The Chairman for the purposes of identification, be approved Mercantile Investment Trust plc.
and adopted as the new Articles of Association of the Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the Resolution existing Articles of Association, with effect from the conclusion of the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
8 THAT the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 By order of the Board the Act to make market purchases within the meaning JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, of Section 163 of the Act of its issued ordinary shares of Secretary 25p each in the capital of the Company.
27th March 2008 PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 15,635,044 or if less, that number of ordinary shares which is equal to 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital as at the date of the passing of this Resolution: ii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 25p: 5 50 0 J JPMor PMorgan Fleming Mer gan Fleming Mercantile Inv cantile Investment estment T Trust plc rust plc Annual R Annual Repor eport & Accounts 2008 t & Accounts 2008 Notice of Meeting continued Notes 8 A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint individuals to act as These notes should be reading conjunction with the notes on the reverse of its representatives and to vote in person at the Meeting see instructions the proxy form.
1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the Meeting, another person s who need not be a member of the Company to arrangements will be put in place at the Meeting so that i if a corporate exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the Meeting, shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the different shares held by him.
directions of all the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the Meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give 2 A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must attend voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the Chairman, withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those another director of the Company or another person who has agreed to directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the attend to represent you.
Details of how to appoint the Chairman or same corporate shareholder attends the Meeting but the corporate another person s as your proxy or proxies using the proxy form are set shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its out in the notes to the proxy form.
If a voting box on the proxy form is corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be left blank, the proxy or proxies will exercise his their discretion both as to nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will how to vote and whether he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting must attend the Meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate proxies does not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the institute of person.
If you attend the Meeting in person, your proxy appointment Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate will automatically be terminated.
uk for further details of this procedure.
3 A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons who The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person.
The Representatives should bring to the Meeting evidence of their rights to appoint a proxy can note be exercised by a Nominated Person: appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
they can only be exercised by the member.
However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between him and the 9 The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in the member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the share capital of the Company is available for inspection at the Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person Companys registered office during usual business hours on any weekday does not have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
the exercise of voting rights.
10 No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
4 An instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in 11 As at 19th March 2008 being the latest business day prior to the accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form.
publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consists 5 You may change your proxy instruction by returning a new proxy of 104,303,166 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments see total voting rights in the Company are 104,303,166. above also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant Electronic appointment CREST members deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid separate CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting and respect of the same Meeting, the one which is last sent shall be treated as any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST replacing and revoking the other or others.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
6 To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the Meeting the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
7 Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
