J JPMor PMorgan R gan Russian Securities plc ussian Securities plc Annual R Annual Repor eport & Accounts 2008 t & Accounts 2008 47 47 Notice of Annual General Meeting iii the maximum price which may be paid for an Notice is hereby given that the sixth Annual ordinary share shall be an amount equal to the General Meeting of JPMorgan Russian highest of a 105% of the average of the middle Securities plc will be held at Trinity House, market quotations for an ordinary share taken from and calculated by reference to the London Stock Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH on Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days Friday 13th March 2009 at 12.00 noon immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary for the following purposes: share is purchased or b the price of the last independent trade: or c the highest current 1 To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and independent bid: the Auditors Report for the year ended 31st October 2008. iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be made in the 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net year ended 31st October 2008. asset value per ordinary share as determined by the Directors at the date following not more than seven 3 To re-elect Paul Teleki a Director of the Company.
days before the date of purchase: 4 To elect George Nianias a Director of the Company.
v the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the 5 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors to the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held in Company and to authorise the Directors to determine 2010 unless the authority is renewed at a general their remuneration.
meeting prior to such time: and vi the Company may make a contract to purchase Special Business: ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred To consider the following resolution: prior to the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special notwithstanding such expiry.
Resolution: 6 THAT the Company be generally and, subject as Adoption of new Articles of Association Special hereinafter appears, unconditionally authorised in Resolution accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 7 THAT the Articles of Association, contained in the the Act to make market purchases within the meaning document produced to the meeting and signed by the of Section 163 of the Act of its issued ordinary shares of Chairman for the purposes of identification, be approved 1 pence each in the capital of the Company.
and adopted as the new Articles of Association of the PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association, with effect from the i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby conclusion of the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
authorised to be purchased shall be 8,384,328 or if less, that number of ordinary shares which is equal to By order of the Board 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital as at Alison Vincent ACIS, for and on behalf of the date of the passing of this Resolution: JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited Secretary ii the minimum price which may be paid for an 5th February 2009 ordinary share will be 1 pence: 48 JPMorgan Russian Securities plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the Meeting, These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the reverse of then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions the proxy form.
to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint more than one corporate representative for the same corporate another person s who need not be a member of the Company to shareholder attends the Meeting but the corporate shareholder has not exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the Meeting.
appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate representative, A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Meeting, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the different shares held by him.
other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that 2 A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must attend designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the Chairman, another to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and director of the Company or another person who has agreed to attend to Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives represent you.
Details of how to appoint the Chairman or another www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance person s as your proxy or proxies using the proxy form are set out in the includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being notes to the proxy form.
If a voting box on the proxy form is left blank, appointed as described in i above.
the proxy or proxies will exercise his their discretion both as to how to Representatives should bring to the Meeting evidence of their vote and whether he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy must attend appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
the Meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies does not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
If you 9 The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in the attend the Meeting in person, your proxy appointment will automatically share capital of the Company is available for inspection at the be terminated.
Companys registered office during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be 3 A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons who available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person.
10 No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a Nominated 11 As at 4th February 2009 being the latest business day prior to the Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
However, a publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consists Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between him of 55,932,812 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore the and the member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as a proxy total voting rights in the Company are 55,932,812. for the Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Electronic appointment CREST members Person does not have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting and as to the exercise of voting rights.
any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST 4 Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form.
5 You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments see above also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same Meeting, the one which is last sent shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others.
6 To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the Meeting the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
7 Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
8 A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint individuals to act as its representatives and to vote in person at the Meeting see instructions given on the proxy form.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the Meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the Meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of
