24 JPMorgan Russian Securities plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report responsibility of JPMAM.
The work carried out by the and the accounts in accordance with applicable law and auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance regulations.
and integrity of this website and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for the accounts since they were initially presented on the each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have elected website.
The accounts are prepared in accordance with UK to prepare the accounts in accordance with United Kingdom legislation, which may differ from legislation in other Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom jurisdictions.
Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The accounts are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of Statement under the Disclosure & Transparency affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Rules 4.1.
In preparing those accounts, the The Directors each confirm to the best of their knowledge Directors are required to: that: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them a the accounts, prepared in accordance with applicable consistently: accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the prudent: and Company: and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have b this Annual Report includes a fair review of the been followed, subject to any material departures development and performance of the business and the disclosed and explained in the accounts.
position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to For and on behalf of the Board ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act Pamela Idelson Smith 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of Chairman the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 5th February 2009 prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The accounts are published on the www.
co. uk website, which is maintained by the Companys Manager, JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by JPMAM is, so far as it relates to the Company, the
