J JPMor PMorgan R gan Russian Securities plc ussian Securities plc Annual R Annual Repor eport & Accounts 2008 t & Accounts 2008 49 49 Appendix Explanatory Notes to Resolution 7 5.
"Attending and speaking at meetings Article 61 The Companies Act 2006 ""the 2006 Act"", which is replacing Article 61 of the new Articles now provides that the chairman the Companies Act 1985 ""the 1985 Act"" is being of the meeting may permit non-members or persons who are implemented in stages and will be fully in force by 1 October not entitled to exercise the rights of members to attend and, 2009."
7, the Company is adopting new at the chairman's discretion, speak at a general meeting.
"Articles of Association ""the Articles"" which will reflect the 6."
Polls Article 67 changes in company law brought about by the 2006 Act Article 67 has been amended to clarify that a poll may be which are already in force, as well as some minor technical or demanded before a show of hands, as well as immediately clarifying changes.
after the result of a show of hands, and to give the directors 1.
Transfer of shares Articles 33 and 34 the right to demand a poll as well as the Chairman of the Under the 2006 Act, a company must either register a transfer meeting.
or give the transferee notice of, and reasons for, its refusal to 7.
Votes of members, proxies and corporate register the transfer.
Any registration of a transfer or notice of representatives Articles 74, 79 and 86 refusal must be made or given as soon as practicable and in Under the 2006 Act, proxies are entitled to vote on a show of any event within two months from the date that the transfer hands as well as on a poll, and members may appoint a proxy is lodged with the company.
The new Articles reflect these to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote requirements.
The Company cannot in any event refuse to at meetings.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided transfer a fully paid share except in very limited circumstances that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to such as a transfer to more than four persons.
The new Articles reflect these new 2.
Disclosure of interests Article 46 proxy rights.
"The 2006 Act also provides for multiple The provisions relating to the disclosure of interests in shares corporate representatives to be appointed and the Articles contained in the Companies Act 1985 ""the 1985 Act"", therefore refer to the right to appoint multiple corporate including Section 212 on company investigation powers, were representatives."
Section 793 and related sections in Part 22 of the 2006 Act, which contain the corresponding 8.
Receipt of appointments of proxy and termination of company investigation powers previously contained in proxy authority Articles 83 and 84 Section 212, were brought into force simultaneously.
Article 83 provides that proxies for a poll to be taken after the Article 46 reflects the replacement of Section 212 of the date of a meeting or adjourned meeting must be received not 1985 Act with Section 793 of the 2006 Act.
less than 24 hours, or such shorter time as the directors may determine, before the time of the poll.
Notice of general meetings Article 52 and 53 receipt of termination of proxy authority have been brought The provisions in the new Articles dealing with the convening into line with the deadlines for receipt of proxies.
Article 83 of general meetings and the length of notice required to also permits the directors to specify, in a notice of meeting, convene general meetings are in line with the relevant that in determining the time for delivery of proxies, no provisions of the 2006 Act.
In particular, a general meeting account shall be taken of non-working days.
other than the annual general meeting to consider a special 9.
Directors' appointments, interests and conflicts of resolution can be convened on 14 days' notice whereas interest Articles 108 and 109 previously 21 days' notice was required.
The 2006 Act sets out directors' general duties which largely The amendment to Article 53 deals with situations where, codify the existing law but with some changes.
Under the because of a postal strike or similar situation beyond the 2006 Act, from 1 October 2008 a director has a statutory duty control of the Company, a notice of meeting is not received to avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or by a shareholder.
The amendment will ensure that such indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with failure does not invalidate proceedings at the meeting in the company's interests.
The requirement is very broad and question.
could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
Quorum Article 55 The 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to Article 55 has been amended to make it clear that two persons authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where appropriate, who are proxies for the same member or representatives of if the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
the same body corporate can constitute a quorum.
The 2006 Act also allows the articles to contain other 50 JPMorgan Russian Securities plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 provisions for dealing with directors' conflicts of interest to connected persons mean that the director should be treated as avoid a breach of duty.
interested for the purposes of this article.
Article 108, which is the provision for dealing with conflicts 12.
Removal of age limit for directors in our current articles, allowing directors to be interested in The provision requiring a director's age to be disclosed, in a transactions and to be an officer of or employed by or notice of meeting at which that director is to be appointed or interested in a body corporate in which the company is reappointed, if that director has attained the age of 70 years interested, has been amended so that it confirms that such or more, has been removed from the new Articles to reflect interests, offices or employment will not infringe the conflicts the repeal of the previous provisions regarding directors over duty as codified in the 2006 Act.
New Article 109 gives the directors authority to approve conflict situations including other directorships held by the 13.
Notices and other communications Articles 82, 140-149 company's directors and include other provisions to allow The 2006 Act enables companies to communicate with their conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the members by electronic communication to a greater extent current position.
Article 141 will provide the Company with a general power to send or supply any notice, There are safeguards that will apply when directors decide document or information to any member by a variety of whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, methods in person, by post or in electronic form such as only directors who have no interest in the matter being by email, or by making it available on the Company's considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and website.
In addition to any notice, document or information secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act in a which is specifically required to be sent or supplied under the way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to 2006 Act, the Company will also be able to send any other promote the company's success.
The directors will be able to document or information to members using this variety of impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they methods.
Article 82 allows proxies to be sent or supplied in electronic The proposed new Article 109 also contains provisions form and, where the Company gives an electronic address in a relating to confidential information, attendance at board form of proxy, shareholders may send the appointment of meetings and availability of board papers to protect a director proxy to that electronic address, subject to any conditions or from being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or limitations specified in the relevant notice of meeting.
potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only The Company may ask each member for his or her consent to apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict receive communications from the Company via its website.
has previously been authorised by the directors.
If the member does not respond to the request for consent It is the board's intention to report annually on the within 28 days, the Company may take that as consent by the Company's procedures for ensuring that the board's powers member to receive communications in this way.
If the of authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and that Company sends or supplies any notice, document or the procedures have been followed.
information to members by making it available on the Company's website, it must notify each member who has 10.
Quorum article 113 consented or is deemed to have consented to receive Article 113, which deals with the quorum requirement for documents via the website, either by post or by email if the board meetings, clarifies that a director cannot count in the member has specifically agreed to receive communications in quorum for a matter or resolution on which he is not entitled electronic form, that the notice, document or information to vote but he may count in the quorum for the other matters has been placed on the website.
A member who has consented or resolutions to be considered or voted on at the meeting.
or is deemed to have consented to receive communications via the website can request a hard copy of any document at 11.
Permitted interests and voting article 118 any time.
Members can also revoke their consent to receive The provisions which previously deemed certain interests of a electronic communications at any time.
director's connected persons to be the interests of the director himself for the purposes of this article have been deleted.
"In relation to joint holders of shares, Article 141 3 provides There is no requirement in the 2006 Act to include such a that the agreement of the first-named holder on the register provision and the 2006 Act contains a much wider definition of members to accept notices, documents or information of ""connected person"" of a director."
The director and the electronically or via a website shall be binding on the other Company must still take a view each time a matter is being joint holders.
Article 141 4 permits the Company not to considered as to whether the interests of the director's send or supply any notice, document or information to a J JPMor PMorgan R gan Russian Securities plc ussian Securities plc Annual R Annual Repor eport & Accounts 2008 t & Accounts 2008 51 51 member whose registered address is not in the United iv a company may, subject to the provisions of the 2006 Act, Kingdom unless that member gives a non-electronic address indemnify a director of an associated company that is the in the United Kingdom.
trustee of an occupational pension scheme, taking advantage of the qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision in the Article 141 5 and 6 cater for situations where the provision 2006 Act.
of corporate information in electronic form or via a website may amount to a breach of securities laws of another As a result of the above, the directors' indemnity provisions of jurisdiction.
The Company may send hard copies if it needs the Articles of Association have been amended.
The new to restrict the circulation of information in certain Article 148 has now been drafted as a permissive provision circumstances, such as for US securities law reasons.
that gives the Company a broad power to indemnify a director, subject to the provisions of the 2006 Act.
Article 148 Article 148 deals with notices, documents or information sent also permits the maintenance by the Company of liability by the Company to a member which have been returned insurance for directors and it specifically makes it clear that undelivered on three consecutive occasions.
The member will the Company may, subject to the provisions of the 2006 Act, only be entitled to be sent further communications upon indemnify a director of an associated company that is the provision of a new postal or electronic address to the trustee of an occupational pension scheme, taking advantage Company.
of the qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision in the Article 149 is included to deal with the validation of 2006 Act.
documents in electronic form by members where required by the Articles.
In the case of notices of meetings or proxies, any validation requirements must be specified in the notice.
Making and retention of minutes Article 121 Article 121 contains a new provision to the effect that minutes must be retained for at least 10 years, reflecting the relevant provision of the 2006 Act.
No minimum retention time was previously specified.
The seal Articles 123 and 124 Article 123 provides that instruments other than share certificates to which the seal is affixed shall be signed by two authorised persons or by a director in the presence of a witness, whereas previously the requirement was for signature by either the director and secretary or two directors.
Power to indemnify directors Article 152 The law governing the giving by a company of indemnities to directors of that company or an associated company was amended in 2005 and further amended by the 2006 Act.
In particular, a company may now, inter alia, do the following: i in the case of liabilities arising from actions brought by third parties other than regulatory authorities or criminal prosecutors, both the costs of the director and of the third party and any damages may be paid by the company even if the judgement goes against the director: ii in the case of liabilities arising from actions brought by the company or an associated company, the company will not be able to indemnify a director against damages awarded to the company itself but may pay the directors' defence costs as they are incurred although a director would be liable to repay his defence costs if his defence was to be unsuccessful : iii the company will not be permitted to indemnify directors against criminal fines, fines by regulators or the legal costs of successful criminal proceedings against directors: and 52 JPMorgan Russian Securities plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Glossary of Terms Actual Gearing Factor Investments excluding holdings in liquidity funds, expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
This shows the effect of gearing on the NAV if the market value of the portfolio was to increase by 100%.
Benchmark Return Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received were reinvested in the shares of the underlying companies at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys investment universe.
The Companys investment strategy does not follow or track this index and consequently, there may be some divergence between the Companys performance and that of the stated index.
Discount Premium If the share price of an investment trust is lower than the NAV per share, the trust is said to be trading at a discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an investment trust to trade at a discount than a premium.
Return on net assets Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on a bid value to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out by the Company were reinvested in the shares of the Company at the NAV at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Return to shareholders Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to mid-market price basis, assuming that all dividends received were reinvested in the shares of the Company at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Transaction costs of reinvestment are not taken into account.
Total Expense Ratio Management fees and all other operating expenses excluding interest, expressed as a percentage of the average of the opening and closing net assets.
JPMorgan Helpline Freephone 0800 20 40 20 or 0207 742 9999 9.00 am to 5.3o pm Monday to Friday JPMorgan Pension Helpline Freephone 0800 41 31 76 or 0172 241 4888 9.00 am to 5.0o pm Monday to Friday Please use this number if you have any queries relating to the Pension Account.
Your telephone call may be recorded for your security www.
