Shareholder information 65 Investment trust status Individual savings account ISA The Corporation carries on business as an For investors seeking a tax efficient method of investment trust company as defined in section investing in the shares of the Corporation.
The Plan 842 1 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act Manager is National Westminster Bank Plc and can 1988.
The directors will endeavour to conduct its be contacted at: affairs so as to enable it to maintain HM Revenue & National Westminster Bank Plc, Customs approval of the Corporations status in this FREEPOST, respect.
So far as the directors are aware, the Princess House, close company provisions of the Income and 27 Bush Lane, Corporation Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to the London EC4R 0AA.
Capital gains tax References to services provided by members of the For shareholders who have purchased their shares Royal Bank of Scotland Group have been approved through a share savings scheme on a monthly basis by National Westminster Bank Plc, which is and who wish to apply HM Revenue & Customs authorised and regulated by the FSA.
optional basis of valuing holdings as if they had all been purchased in July, guidance notes have been Registrars prepared by the AIC and are available from the Our registrars, Computershare Investor Services plc, company secretary on request.
operate a dedicated telephone service for Law Debenture shareholders 0870 707 1129.
Company share information Shareholders can use this number to access holding Information about the Corporation can be found balances, dividend payment details, share price on its web site http: www.
The data, or to request that a form be sent to their market price of its ordinary shares is published in registered address.
the Financial Times, The Times, The Daily Telegraph, The Guardian, The Independent, and the Daily Mail.
Financial calendar Dividend and interest payments Payment methods for dividends Ordinary shares: Dividends and interest can be paid to shareholders Interim announced July Paid September by means of BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Final announced February Paid April System.
Mandate forms for this purpose are available on request from the Corporations 6.125% guaranteed Registrars.
secured notes Paid April and October Group results First Quarter Interim Statement Announced in April Half year results Announced in July Third Quarter Interim Statement Announced in October Full year results Announced in February Report and accounts Published in March Annual general meeting Held in London in April www.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
