Group Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies D Consolidation principles A Basis of preparation Subsidiary undertakings The Group financial statements have been prepared in The consolidated financial statements incorporate the assets, accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards liabilities, equity, revenues, expenses and cash flows of the IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board Company and of its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to IASB as adopted by the European Union, and with those parts of 31 December each year.
All intra-group balances, transactions, the UK Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting income and expenses are eliminated in full.
The Groups financial statements also comply with IFRS those entities including special purpose entities, mutual funds as issued by the IASB.
and unit trusts over which the Group directly or indirectly has the power to govern the operating and financial policies in order to The Group presents its balance sheet broadly in order of liquidity.
Profits or losses of subsidiary This is considered to be more relevant than a before or after undertakings sold or acquired during the period are included 12 months presentation, given the long term nature of the Groups in the consolidated results up to the date of disposal or from the core business.
However, for each asset and liability line item which date of gaining control.
combines amounts expected to be recovered or settled before and after 12 months from the balance sheet date, disclosure of Acquisitions the split is made by way of a note.
The Group applies the purchase method in its accounting for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured Financial assets and financial liabilities are disclosed gross in as the fair value of the assets transferred, equity instruments issued the balance sheet unless a legally enforceable right of offset and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus exists and there is an intention to settle recognised amounts on costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost a net basis.
Income and expenses are not offset in the income of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net statement unless required or permitted by any accounting assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is standard or International Financial Reporting Interpretations less than the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the Committee IFRIC interpretation, as detailed in the applicable subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the accounting policies of the Group.
The Group has chosen to adopt IFRS 8, Operating Segments, Associates and joint ventures in 2008, in advance of the 31 December 2009 deadline.
IFRS Associates are entities over which the Group has significant 8 supersedes the disclosure requirements of IAS 14, Segment influence but which it does not control.
Consistent with IAS 28, Reporting and reflects the basis on which the business is Investments in Associates, it is presumed that the Group has managed.
In accordance with the provisions of the standard, significant influence where it has between 20% and 50% of the comparatives have been restated.
There is no impact on current voting rights in the investee.
Joint ventures are entities where the or prior year profit or net assets resulting from the adoption of this Group and other parties undertake an activity which is subject to standard, as its provisions relate to disclosure.
B Use of estimates The Group has interests in associates and joint ventures which The preparation of the financial statements includes the use of form part of an investment portfolio held through private equity estimates and assumptions which affect items reported in the partnerships, mutual funds, unit trusts and similar entities.
In consolidated balance sheet and income statement and the accordance with the choices permitted by IAS 28 and IAS 31, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Interests in Joint Ventures, these interests have been classified as financial statements.
Although these estimates are based on fair value through profit or loss and measured at fair value within managements best knowledge of current circumstances and financial investments, with changes in fair value recognised in the future events and actions, actual results may differ from those income statement.
This is particularly relevant to the determination of fair values of unquoted financial investments Associates which do not form part of an investment portfolio are Notes 18 and 19, estimation of deferred acquisition costs initially recognised in the balance sheet at cost.
The carrying Note 22, tax balances Notes 23 and 24, and insurance and amount of the associate is increased or decreased to reflect the investment contract liabilities Notes 33 and 34 and associated Groups share of the profit or loss after the date of the acquisition.
Investment vehicles The significant estimates and assumptions used are disclosed in Investment vehicles such as Open Ended Investment Companies, the relevant notes to these financial statements, including Note 37 where a Group company exerts control over financial and on Long term insurance valuation assumptions.
The interests of parties other than the Group in such vehicles are classified as liabilities and C Summary of significant accounting policies appear as Net asset value attributable to unit holders in the The Group has selected accounting policies which fairly state consolidated balance sheet.
its financial position and financial performance for a reporting period.
The accounting policies have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless otherwise stated.
The principal accounting policies adopted in preparing these financial statements are set out below.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 79 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued In the UK, insurance contract liabilities are determined following E Product classification an annual investigation of the LTFs in accordance with regulatory The Groups products are classified for accounting purposes as requirements.
either insurance contracts participating and non-participating or investment contracts participating and non-participating.
For non-participating insurance contracts, the liabilities are Insurance contracts are contracts which transfer significant calculated on the basis of current information using the gross insurance risk to the insurer at the inception of the contract.
This brings into account the full Contracts which do not transfer significant insurance risk to the premiums receivable under contracts written, having prudent insurer are classified as investment contracts.
Hybrid contract regard to expected lapses and surrenders, estimated renewal types, containing both insurance and investment features, have and maintenance costs and contractually guaranteed benefits.
been treated as investment contracts when accounting for For unit linked insurance contract liabilities the provision is based premiums, claims and other revenue.
on the fund value together with an allowance for any excess of future expenses over charges where appropriate.
A number of insurance and investment contracts contain discretionary participating features DPF which entitle the For participating contracts, the liabilities to policyholders are policyholders to receive guaranteed benefits as well as determined on a realistic basis in accordance with Financial additional benefits: Reporting Standard FRS 27, Life Assurance.
This includes an the amount or timing of which is contractually at the discretion assessment of the cost of any future options and guarantees of the Group: and granted to policyholders valued on a market consistent basis.
which are contractually based on: The calculation also takes account of bonus decisions which the performance of a specified pool of contracts or a are consistent with Legal & General Assurance Society Ltd. s specified type of contract: Societys Principles and Practices of Financial Management realised and or unrealised investment returns on a specified PPFM.
The shareholders share of the future cost of bonuses is pool of assets held by the issuer: or excluded from the assessment of the realistic liability.
the profit or loss of the Company, fund or other entity which issues the contract.
In determining the realistic value of liabilities for participating contracts, the value of future profits on non-participating business Contracts with DPF are referred to as participating contracts.
written in the with-profits part of the fund is accounted for as With-profits contracts in the UK and most Guarantie Long Terme part of the calculation.
The present value of future profits VIF on contracts in France are classified as participating.
this business is separately determined and its value is deducted from the sum of the liabilities for participating contracts and the F Long term insurance contracts unallocated divisible surplus.
Premium income Premiums are recognised as revenue when the liabilities arising The long term insurance contract liabilities for business transacted from them are created.
by overseas subsidiaries are determined on the basis of recognised actuarial methods which reflect local supervisory Claims principles or, in the case of the USA, on the basis of US GAAP.
Death claims are accounted for on notification of death.
Surrenders for non-linked policies are accounted for when Long term business liabilities can never be definitive as to their payment is made.
Critical illness claims are accounted for when timing or the amount of claims and are therefore subject to admitted.
All other claims and surrenders are accounted for regular reassessment.
Claims payable include the direct costs of settlement.
Unitised liabilities are recognised when premiums are received and non-unitised liabilities are recognised when premiums Acquisition costs are due.
Acquisition costs comprise direct costs, such as initial commission, and the indirect costs of obtaining and processing new business.
Unallocated divisible surplus Acquisition costs relating to non-participating insurance contracts The nature of benefits for participating contracts is such that the written outside the with-profits part of the UK Long Term Funds allocation of surpluses between ordinary equity holders and LTFs which are incurred during a financial year are deferred by participating policyholders is uncertain.
The amount of surplus use of an asset which is amortised over the period during which which has not been allocated at the balance sheet date is the costs are expected to be recoverable, and in accordance classified within liabilities as the unallocated divisible surplus.
with the expected incidence of future related margins.
For Adjustments made to comply with FRS 27 are charged to the participating contracts, acquisition costs are charged to the unallocated divisible surplus.
G Investment contracts Insurance contract liabilities Premium income Under current IFRS requirements, insurance contract liabilities are For investment contracts, amounts collected as premiums measured using local Generally Accepted Accounting Principles are not included in the income statement but are reported as GAAP, as permitted by IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts.
contributions to investment contract liabilities in the balance sheet.
80 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Group Financial Statements Revenue from investment contracts Unitised liabilities are recognised when premiums are received Fees charged for investment management services are and non-unitised liabilities are recognised when premiums are due.
recognised as revenue as the services are provided.
Initial fees, which exceed the level of recurring fees and relate to the future H General insurance business provision of services, are deferred and amortised over the Results for the General insurance business are determined after anticipated period in which the services will be provided.
taking account of unearned premiums, outstanding claims and unexpired risks using the annual basis of accounting.
Fees charged for investment management services for institutional and retail fund management are also recognised on Premium income this basis.
Premiums are accounted for in the period in which the risk commences.
Estimates are included for premiums not notified Claims by the year end and provision is made for the anticipated lapse Claims are not included in the income statement but are of renewals not yet confirmed.
Those proportions of premiums deducted from investment contract liabilities.
The movement in written in a year which relate to periods of risk extending beyond investment contract liabilities consists of claims incurred in the the end of the year are carried forward as unearned premiums.
period less the corresponding elimination of the policyholder liability originally recognised in the balance sheet and the Acquisition costs investment return credited to policyholders.
A proportion of commission and other acquisition costs relating to unearned premiums is carried forward as deferred acquisition Acquisition costs costs or, in respect of reinsurance outwards, as deferred income.
For participating investment contracts, acquisition costs comprise direct costs such as initial commission and the indirect costs of Technical liabilities obtaining and processing new business.
These costs are charged Liabilities, together with related reinsurance recoveries, are to the income statement when incurred.
established on the basis of current information.
Such liabilities can never be definitive as to their timing or the amount of claims and For non-participating investment contracts, only directly related are therefore subject to subsequent reassessment on a regular acquisition costs which vary with, and are related to, securing basis.
new contracts and renewing existing contracts, are deferred and amortised over the period during which the costs are expected Claims and related reinsurance recoveries are accounted for to be recoverable from future revenue.
All other costs are in respect of all incidents up to the year end.
Provision is made recognised as expenses when incurred.
on the basis of available information for the estimated ultimate cost, including claims settlement expenses, of claims reported Trail commission but not yet settled and claims incurred but not yet reported.
The Group operates distribution agreements with intermediaries An unexpired risk provision is made for any overall excess of where further commission costs are payable in each period expected claims and deferred acquisition costs over unearned which a relevant policy remains in-force.
For relevant nonpremiums and after taking account of investment return.
participating investment contracts, a liability for the present value of this future commission cost is recognised in the balance I Liability adequacy tests sheet on inception of the contract.
The present value of future The Group performs liability adequacy testing on its insurance commission costs is deferred as an asset and amortised over the liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of liabilities less period during which the related revenue will be recognised.
At related deferred acquisition costs is sufficient to cover current each subsequent reporting date, the liability is remeasured to estimates of future cash flows.
When performing the liability fair value because this financial liability is part of a portfolio of adequacy test, the Group discounts all contractual cash flows unit linked assets and liabilities whose performance is evaluated and compares this amount with the carrying value of the on a fair value basis.
Any increase in the liability is recognised as liability.
Any deficiency is immediately charged to the income an additional deferred cost.
Any change in lapse assumptions or statement, initially reducing deferred acquisition costs and then revisions to the underlying assumptions for future cash flows will by establishing a provision for losses.
be reflected in the fair value movement for a period.
If the future commission liability decreases, a corresponding adjustment is J Reinsurance made to the amortisation of the asset.
The Groups insurance subsidiaries cede insurance premiums and risk in the normal course of business in order to limit the potential Investment contract liabilities for losses and to provide financing.
Outwards reinsurance Under current IFRS requirements, participating investment premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period contract liabilities are measured using local GAAP, as permitted as the related premiums for the direct or inwards reinsurance by IFRS 4 see above for insurance contract liabilities.
In the UK, business being reinsured.
Reinsurance assets include balances participating investment contract liabilities are determined in due from reinsurers for paid and unpaid losses and loss accordance with FRS 27, including a value for guarantees, in the adjustment expenses, ceded unearned premiums and ceded same way as insurance contracts.
Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the claim liability Non-participating investment contracts consist of unit linked associated with the reinsured policy.
Unit linked liabilities are measured at fair value by as an asset in the consolidated balance sheet unless a right of reference to the value of the underlying net asset values of the offset exists, in which case the associated liabilities are reduced Groups unitised investment funds at the balance sheet date.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 81 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued investment contract liabilities outside of the US are measured on K Intangible assets the basis of current information and are designated as FVTPL to Goodwill avoid an accounting mismatch in the income statement.
Goodwill on the acquisition of subsidiaries prior to 1998 has been charged directly to reserves.
On disposal, goodwill held in The fair values of quoted financial investments are based on reserves is transferred directly to retained earnings.
If the market for a financial investment is the Groups policy is to recognise goodwill on the balance sheet not active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation as an intangible asset, measured at cost less any accumulated techniques such as recent arms length transactions, consensus impairment losses.
market pricing, reference to similar listed investments, discounted cash flow models or option pricing models.
Purchased interest in long term businesses and other intangible assets Private equity investments are valued in accordance with the Portfolios of in-force insurance or investment contracts acquired International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation either directly or through the acquisition of a subsidiary Guidelines, which represent current best practice, developed by undertaking are capitalised at fair value.
The value of business the Association Franais des Investisseurs en Capital, the British acquired represents the present value of anticipated future Venture Capital Association and the European Private Equity and profits in acquired contracts.
These amounts are amortised over Venture Capital Association.
The techniques used for determining the anticipated lives of the related contracts in the portfolio.
fair value include earnings multiples, the price of a recent Other intangible assets acquired via business combinations are investment or a net asset basis.
recognised at fair value and are subsequently amortised over their useful life in line with the expected emergence of profit from Financial investments classified as HFT and FVTPL are measured at the business.
fair value with gains and losses reflected in the income statement.
L Investments Financial investments classified as AFS are measured at fair value Investment property with unrealised gains and losses recognised in a separate reserve Investment property comprises land and buildings which are within equity.
Realised gains and losses, impairment losses, held for long term rental yields and capital growth.
It is carried dividends, interest and foreign exchange movements on nonat fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the income equity instruments are reflected in the income statement.
Investment property in the UK is valued bi-annually by external chartered surveyors at open Loans and receivables are initially measured at fair value less market values in accordance with the Appraisal and Valuation acquisition costs, and subsequently measured at amortised cost Manual of The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Outside using the effective interest method.
the UK, valuations are produced in conjunction with external qualified professional valuers in the countries concerned.
In the M Plant and equipment event of a material change in market conditions between the The initial cost of an item of plant or equipment is capitalised valuation date and balance sheet date, an internal valuation where it is probable that future economic benefits associated is performed and adjustments made to reflect any material with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can changes in fair value.
The cost is then depreciated on a straight line basis over the items estimated useful working life.
No residual Financial investments values are imputed to any item of plant and equipment.
The Group classifies its financial investments on initial recognition as held for trading HFT, designated at fair value through profit N Impairment policy or loss FVTPL, available-for-sale AFS or loans and receivables.
The Group reviews the carrying value of its financial assets other Initial recognition of financial investments is on the trade date.
than those held at FVTPL at each balance sheet date.
If the carrying value of a financial asset is impaired, the carrying value The Groups policy is to measure investments at FVTPL except is reduced through a charge to the income statement.
There for certain overseas assets where the related liability is valued must be objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or on a passive basis not using current information, in which case more events which have occurred after the initial recognition investments are classified as AFS.
All derivatives other than those of the asset.
Impairment is only recognised if the loss event has designated as hedges are classified as HFT.
an impact on the estimated future cash flows of assets held at amortised cost or fair value of assets classified as AFS.
Certain financial investments held by the Group are designated as FVTPL as their performance is evaluated on a total return Non-financial assets which have an indefinite useful life are basis, consistent with asset performance reporting to the not subjected to amortisation and are tested annually for Group Investment and Market Risk Committee and the Groups impairment.
Assets which are subject to amortisation are investment strategy.
Assets designated as FVTPL include debt reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in securities and equity instruments which would otherwise have circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be been classified as AFS under IAS 39, Financial Instruments: recoverable.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets Recognition and Measurement.
Assets backing participating fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
and non-participating policyholder liabilities outside the US are designated as FVTPL.
For participating contracts the assets are managed on a fair value basis to maximise the total return to policyholders over the contract life.
The Groups non-participating 82 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Group Financial Statements O Cash and cash equivalents Borrowings comprise unsecured subordinated debt such as Tier 1 Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held and Tier 2 bond issues, short and long term unsecured senior debt at call with banks, treasury bills and other short term highly liquid such as long dated bond issues, commercial paper issuance investments with original maturities of three months or less.
and bank borrowings under both committed and uncommitted debt facilities including bank overdrafts.
Borrowings raised from P Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting individual banks, syndicated banks and capital markets secured The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes on specific assets cash flows such as Triple X securitisations and in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group uses property partnerships assets are included as non recourse derivatives such as foreign exchange forward contracts and borrowings, as are mortgage loans raised by SIPP clients secured interest rate swap contracts to hedge these exposures.
The Group on their properties invested in their portfolio of linked SIPP uses hedge accounting, provided the prescribed criteria in IAS 39 investments which we manage on their behalf.
are met, to recognise the offsetting effects of changes in the fair value or cash flow of the derivative instrument and the hedged R Income taxes item.
The Groups principal uses of hedge accounting are to: Income tax Income tax comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is i recognise in shareholders equity the changes in the fair value recognised in the income statement except where it relates to an of derivatives designated as hedges of a net investment in item which is recognised in equity.
Any cumulative gains and or losses are recognised in the income statement on disposal of the foreign Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable profit for operation: the period and any adjustment to the tax payable in respect of ii defer in equity the changes in the fair value of derivatives previous periods.
designated as the hedge of a future cash flow attributable to a recognised asset or liability, a highly probable forecast The total income tax expense for the period includes income tax transaction, or a firm commitment until the period in which the paid by Society in respect of UK life policyholder returns, which is future transaction affects profit or loss or is no longer expected not related to profits earned by equity holders for the period.
The to occur: and income tax charge in the income statement has therefore been iii hedge the fair value movements in loans due to interest apportioned between the element attributable to policyholder rate and exchange rate fluctuations.
Any gain or loss from returns and the element attributable to equity holders profits remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised equity holder tax.
immediately in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted Deferred income tax against the carrying amount of the hedged item and Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the balance sheet recognised in the income statement.
liability method, on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes The relationship between the hedging instrument and the and the amounts used for tax purposes.
Deferred tax is measured hedged item, together with the risk management objective and using tax rates expected to apply when the related deferred strategy for undertaking the hedge transaction, are documented income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is at the inception of the transaction.
The effectiveness of the settled, based on tax rates and law which have been enacted or hedge is documented and monitored on an ongoing basis.
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Hedge accounting is only applied for highly effective hedges between 80% and 125% effectiveness with any ineffective Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it portion of the gain or loss recognised in the income statement, is probable that future taxable profits will be available against within other expenses, in the current period.
which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments which do not qualify for hedge accounting are Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising recognised immediately in the income statement.
on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the Group controls the timing of the reversal of the temporary Where the risks and characteristics of derivatives embedded difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will in other contracts are not closely related to those of the host not reverse in the foreseeable future or if it will, then it will not contract and the whole contract is not carried at fair value, the generate any incremental tax liability for the Group.
derivative is separated from that host contract and measured at fair value, with fair value movements reflected within investment No deferred tax is provided on the undeclared surplus in Societys return, unless the embedded derivative itself meets the definition LTF represented by the Shareholder Retained Capital SRC on the of an insurance contract.
grounds that, at the balance sheet date, no obligation to make a declaration of surplus exists and there is no expectation that Q Borrowings such a declaration will occur.
At 31 December 2007, there was an Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction expectation that a future declaration of surplus would be made costs.
Borrowings classified as liabilities are subsequently stated and deferred tax was therefore provided at the incremental tax at amortised cost.
The difference between the net proceeds and rate on the balance of the SRC which remained in Societys LTF.
the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the borrowing period using the effective interest method.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 83 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued U Share capital and employee scheme shares S Leases Equity instruments Where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of An equity instrument is any contract which evidences a residual ownership is retained by the lessor, leases are classified as interest in the net assets of an entity.
It follows that a financial operating leases.
Payments made as lessees under operating instrument is treated as equity if: leases net of any incentives from the lessor are charged to the there is no contractual obligation to deliver cash or other income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the financial assets or to exchange financial assets or liabilities on lease.
unfavourable terms: and the instrument is either a non-derivative which contains no T Employee benefits contractual obligation to deliver a variable number of own Pension obligations equity instruments, or is a derivative which will be settled The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined only by the Group exchanging a fixed amount of cash or contribution pension schemes in the UK and overseas.
The assets other financial assets, for a fixed number of its own equity of all UK defined benefit schemes are held in separate trustee instruments.
administered funds which are subject to regular actuarial valuation every three years, updated by formal reviews at Share issue costs reporting dates.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined proceeds.
An incremental share issue cost is one which would not benefit pension schemes is the present value of the defined have arisen if shares had not been issued.
benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
Plan assets exclude any insurance contracts Legal & General shares issued by the Group.
The defined benefit obligation is actuarially Where any Group entity purchases the Companys equity calculated each year using the projected unit credit method.
share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted by discounting the estimated future cash outflows.
The discount from equity attributable to shareholders.
Where such shares rate is based on market yields of high quality corporate bonds are subsequently sold, reissued or otherwise disposed of, any which are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will consideration received is included in equity attributable to be paid, and that have terms to maturity which approximate to shareholders, net of any directly attributable incremental those of the related pension liability.
transaction costs and the related income tax effects.
Shares held on behalf of employee share schemes are disclosed as such on Where the unallocated divisible surplus or equity holders funds the balance sheet.
are affected as a result of actuarial gains and losses on the defined benefit pension scheme, the charge or credit is not Where shares are cancelled under the share buyback recognised in the income statement but through the statement programme, the consideration paid, including any directly of recognised income and expense SORIE.
attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to shareholders.
As required by Companies Act The Group pays contractual contributions in respect of defined 1985, the equivalent of the nominal value of shares cancelled is contribution schemes.
The Group has no further payment transferred to a capital redemption reserve.
obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expenses Dividend recognition when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an A dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are payments is available.
Obligations under defined benefit pension authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
schemes are included within provisions.
Final dividends are accrued when approved by the Companys shareholders at a general meeting and interim dividends are Share-based payments recognised when paid.
The Group operates a number of share-based payment schemes.
The fair value at the date of grant of the equity instrument is V Fiduciary activities recognised as an expense, spread over the vesting period of the Assets and income arising from fiduciary activities, together with instrument.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by associated commitments to return such assets to customers, are reference to the fair value of the awards, excluding the impact of not included in these financial statements.
Where the Group acts any non-market vesting conditions.
At each balance sheet date, in a fiduciary capacity, for instance as a trustee or agent, it has no the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments contractual rights over the assets concerned.
which are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment is made to equity.
On vesting or exercise, the difference between the expense charged to the income statement and the actual cost to the Group is transferred to retained earnings.
Where new shares are issued, the proceeds received are credited to share capital and share premium.
84 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Group Financial Statements W Provisions AA Earnings per share Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or Earnings per share constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable Earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will attributable to ordinary equity holders by the weighted average be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding the amount of the obligation can be made.
Where the Group employee scheme shares and shares acquired under the share expects a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an buyback programme prior to cancellation.
For this purpose, net insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a income is defined as the profit after tax derived from continuing separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually operations, or as the profit after tax derived from both continuing certain.
The Group recognises a provision for onerous contracts and discontinued operations.
when the expected benefits to be derived from a contract are less than the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under Diluted earnings per share the contract.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue, excluding employee scheme shares, X Foreign currency translation is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary Foreign currency transactions shares, such as share options granted to employees.
Potential Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional or contingent share issuances are treated as dilutive when their currency using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the conversion to shares would decrease net earnings per share.
The functional currency of the Groups foreign operations is the currency of the primary economic environment AB Segmental reporting in which these entities operate.
Foreign exchange gains and Under the requirements of IFRS 8, operating and reportable losses are recognised in the income statement, except when segments are presented in a manner consistent with the internal recognised in equity as qualifying cash flow or net investment reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker, which hedges.
has been identified as the Board of Legal & General Group Plc.
Overseas subsidiaries AC Standards, interpretations and amendments to The assets and liabilities of all of the Groups foreign operations published standards that are not yet effective are translated into sterling, the Groups presentational currency, Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet.
The income existing standards have been published which are mandatory for and expenses for each income statement are translated the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January at average exchange rates.
On consolidation, exchange 2009 or later periods but which the Group has not adopted early, differences arising from the translation of the net investment in as follows: foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments Revised IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to a Comprehensive revision including requiring a statement of separate component of shareholders equity.
comprehensive income effective from 1 January 2009.
The revision is aimed at improving users ability to analyse and Y Investment return compare the information given in financial statements.
It The reporting of investment return comprises investment income, prohibits the presentation of items of income and expenses in unrealised gains and losses from financial investments held at the statement of changes in equity, and requires changes in FVTPL and realised gains and losses from all financial assets.
equity attributable to shareholders to be presented separately to changes in equity resulting from transactions and other Investment income includes dividends, interest and rent.
events other than those resulting from transactions with Dividends are accrued on an ex-dividend basis.
These amendments are presentational and are are included on an accruals basis.
Interest income for financial not likely to have a material impact on the Group accounts.
assets which are not classified as FVTPL is recognised using the Revised IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements and IAS 32, effective interest method.
Financial instruments presentation Amendments relating to disclosure of puttable instruments and obligations arising on Z Operational income and expenses liquidation effective from 1 January 2009.
The amendments Operational income comprises fee income from estate agency require the following disclosures if an entity has a puttable operations and agency fee income relating to distribution instrument that is presented as equity : summary quantitative services.
Operational income is accounted for when due.
data about the amount classified as equity and the entitys objectives, policies and processes for managing its obligation Other expenses comprise primarily the expenses incurred in to repurchase or redeem the instruments when required to estate agency operations, institutional fund management and do so by the instrument holders, including any changes from retail investment business, together with unallocated corporate the previous period.
These amendments are presentational expenses.
Other costs are accounted for as they arise.
and are not likely to have a material impact on the Group accounts.
There are various amendments resulting from the IASBs annual improvements project published in May 2008 effective from both 1 January 2009 and 1 July 2009, these are unlikely to have a material impact on the Group accounts.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 85 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued focused on developing application guidance to illustrate Revised IFRS 7, Financial instruments disclosures.
In March how the principles underlying hedge accounting should 2009, the IASB issued Improving Disclosures about Financial be applied in those situations.
The Group does not consider Instruments Amendments to IFRS 7 requiring enhanced that these amendments will have a material impact on the disclosures about fair value measurements and liquidity risk.
The disclosures include a three-level hierarchy for reporting Revised IFRS 1, First-time adoption of International Financial the fair value movements: Level 1 fair values measured Reporting Standards This standard amends the rules using quoted prices in an active market for identical assets on cost of an investment on first-time adoption and IAS 27, or liabilities, Level 2 fair values measured using valuation Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements effective techniques for which all inputs significant to the measurement from 1 January 2009.
This amendment is not relevant to the are based on observable market data and Level 3 fair values Groups financial statements.
measured using valuation techniques for which any input Amendment to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition significant to the measurement is not based on observable and measurement and IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: market data.
The amendments are required for annual periods Disclosures effective 30 June 2009.
The amendments permit beginning on or after 1 January 2009 with earlier application reclassification of some financial instruments out of the fairpermitted.
These amendments are presentational and are not  category FVTPL and out of the likely to have a material impact on the Group accounts.
The amendments do not permit Revised IAS 23, Borrowing costs effective from 1 January reclassification into FVTPL.
These amendments are not relevant 2009.
The revision requires an entity to capitalise borrowing to the Groups financial statements as the Group has not costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or made use of the reclassification amendments.
production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset IFRIC 15, Agreements for construction of real estates effective with the removal of the option to immediately expense those from 1 January 2009.
This interpretation clarifies whether IAS costs.
The Group considers that this amendment will have an 18, Revenue, or IAS 11, Construction contracts, should be immaterial impact on the financial statements.
IFRIC 15 is not relevant to the Amendments to IFRS 2, Share-based payment effective Groups operations as all revenue transactions are accounted from 1 January 2009.
The amendments clarify what vesting for under IAS 18 and not IAS 11. conditions are, and specify the accounting treatment for IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation cancellations of granted equity instruments.
The anticipated effective from 1 October 2008.
This clarifies the accounting impact is not expected to be material.
treatment in respect of net investment hedging.
The IFRIC is not Revised IAS 27, Consolidated and separate financial expected to have a material impact on the Groups financial statements effective from 1 July 2009.
the effect of all transactions with non-controlling interests to IFRIC 17, Distributions of non-cash assets to owners effective be recorded in equity if there is no change in control.
The interpretation clarifies that a dividend specifies the accounting when control is lost.
The Group does payable should be recognised when the dividend is not consider that this amendment will result in any significant appropriately authorised and is no longer at the discretion impact on the financial statements.
of the entity: an entity should measure the dividend payable Revised IFRS 3, Business combinations This standard at the fair value of the net assets to be distributed: an entity comprehensively revises the acquisition method of accounting should recognise the difference between the dividend paid with consequential amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and the carrying amount of the net assets distributed in and Separate Financial Statements, IAS 28 Investments in profit or loss: and an entity will provide additional disclosures Associates and IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures effective if the net assets being held for distribution to owners meet from 1 July 2009.
The standard continues to apply the the definition of a discontinued operation.
The IFRIC is not acquisition method to business combinations, with some expected to have a material impact on the Groups financial significant changes e. g. all payments to purchase a business statements.
are to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with IFRIC 18, Transfers of assets from customers effective from some contingent payments subsequently re-measured at fair 1 July 2009.
This IFRIC clarifies the requirements of IFRSs for value through income.
Goodwill may be calculated based agreements in which an entity receives from a customer an on the parents share of net assets or may include goodwill item of property, plant, and equipment that the entity must related to the minority interest.
All transaction costs will be then use either to connect the customer to a network or to expensed.
The requirements of this standard will be considered provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of for future business acquisitions.
goods or services such as a supply of electricity, gas or water.
Amendment to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition This IFRIC is not relevant to the Groups operations as the Group and measurement This standard amends eligible hedged does not have such agreements with customers.
The amendment clarifies how the existing principles underlying hedge accounting should be applied in two particular situations.
The responses to an exposure draft of proposed guidance published in September 2007 indicated that diversity in practice existed, or was likely to exist, in the designation of a one-sided risk in a hedged item and inflation in a financial hedged item.
The IASB has therefore 86 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
