Group Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies D Consolidation principles A Basis of preparation Subsidiary undertakings The Group financial statements have been prepared in The consolidated financial statements incorporate the assets, accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards liabilities, equity, revenues, expenses and cash flows of the IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board Company and of its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to IASB as adopted by the European Union, and with those parts of 31 December each year.
All intra-group balances, transactions, the UK Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting income and expenses are eliminated in full.
The Groups financial statements also comply with IFRS those entities including special purpose entities, mutual funds as issued by the IASB.
and unit trusts over which the Group directly or indirectly has the power to govern the operating and financial policies in order to The Group presents its balance sheet broadly in order of liquidity.
Profits or losses of subsidiary This is considered to be more relevant than a before or after undertakings sold or acquired during the period are included 12 months presentation, given the long term nature of the Groups in the consolidated results up to the date of disposal or from the core business.
However, for each asset and liability line item which date of gaining control.
combines amounts expected to be recovered or settled before and after 12 months from the balance sheet date, disclosure of Acquisitions the split is made by way of a note.
The Group applies the purchase method in its accounting for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured Financial assets and financial liabilities are disclosed gross in as the fair value of the assets transferred, equity instruments issued the balance sheet unless a legally enforceable right of offset and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus exists and there is an intention to settle recognised amounts on costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost a net basis.
Income and expenses are not offset in the income of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net statement unless required or permitted by any accounting assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is standard or International Financial Reporting Interpretations less than the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the Committee IFRIC interpretation, as detailed in the applicable subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the accounting policies of the Group.
The Group has chosen to adopt IFRS 8, Operating Segments, Associates and joint ventures in 2008, in advance of the 31 December 2009 deadline.
IFRS Associates are entities over which the Group has significant 8 supersedes the disclosure requirements of IAS 14, Segment influence but which it does not control.
Consistent with IAS 28, Reporting and reflects the basis on which the business is Investments in Associates, it is presumed that the Group has managed.
In accordance with the provisions of the standard, significant influence where it has between 20% and 50% of the comparatives have been restated.
There is no impact on current voting rights in the investee.
Joint ventures are entities where the or prior year profit or net assets resulting from the adoption of this Group and other parties undertake an activity which is subject to standard, as its provisions relate to disclosure.
B Use of estimates The Group has interests in associates and joint ventures which The preparation of the financial statements includes the use of form part of an investment portfolio held through private equity estimates and assumptions which affect items reported in the partnerships, mutual funds, unit trusts and similar entities.
In consolidated balance sheet and income statement and the accordance with the choices permitted by IAS 28 and IAS 31, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Interests in Joint Ventures, these interests have been classified as financial statements.
Although these estimates are based on fair value through profit or loss and measured at fair value within managements best knowledge of current circumstances and financial investments, with changes in fair value recognised in the future events and actions, actual results may differ from those income statement.
This is particularly relevant to the determination of fair values of unquoted financial investments Associates which do not form part of an investment portfolio are Notes 18 and 19, estimation of deferred acquisition costs initially recognised in the balance sheet at cost.
The carrying Note 22, tax balances Notes 23 and 24, and insurance and amount of the associate is increased or decreased to reflect the investment contract liabilities Notes 33 and 34 and associated Groups share of the profit or loss after the date of the acquisition.
Investment vehicles The significant estimates and assumptions used are disclosed in Investment vehicles such as Open Ended Investment Companies, the relevant notes to these financial statements, including Note 37 where a Group company exerts control over financial and on Long term insurance valuation assumptions.
The interests of parties other than the Group in such vehicles are classified as liabilities and C Summary of significant accounting policies appear as Net asset value attributable to unit holders in the The Group has selected accounting policies which fairly state consolidated balance sheet.
its financial position and financial performance for a reporting period.
The accounting policies have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless otherwise stated.
The principal accounting policies adopted in preparing these financial statements are set out below.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 79
