Group Financial Statements 43 Contingent liabilities, guarantees and indemnities Provision for the liabilities arising under contracts with policyholders is based on certain assumptions.
The variance of actual experience from that assumed may result in such liabilities differing from the provisions made for them.
Liabilities may also arise in respect of claims relating to the interpretation of such contracts, or the circumstances in which policyholders have entered into them together in this paragraph liabilities.
The extent of such liabilities is influenced by a number of factors including the actions and requirements of the FSA, ombudsman rulings, industry compensation schemes and court judgments.
The continuing general profile and emphasis being given by the FSA and other bodies to the suitability of the past sales of endowment policies, in the context of some mortgage transactions, has led to the continuing receipt of claims from holders of endowment policies.
Various Group companies receive claims and become involved in actual or threatened litigation and regulatory issues from time to time.
Provision for liabilities continues to be made and is regularly reviewed.
However, it is not possible to predict, with certainty, the extent and the timing of the financial impact to which these claims, litigation or issues may arise.
The relevant members of the Group nevertheless ensure that each makes prudent provision, as and when circumstances calling for such provision become clear, and that each has adequate capital and reserves to meet all reasonably foreseeable eventualities.
In 1975, Legal & General Assurance Society Limited the Society was required by the Institute of London Underwriters ILU to execute the ILU form of guarantee in respect of policies issued through the ILUs Policy Signing Office on behalf of NRG Victory Reinsurance Company Ltd Victory, a company which was then a subsidiary of the Society.
In 1990, Nederlandse Reassurantie Groep Holding NV the assets and liabilities of which have since been assumed by Nederlandse Reassurantie Groep NV under a statutory merger in the Netherlands acquired Victory and provided an indemnity to the Society against any liability the Society may have as a result of the ILUs requirement, and the ILU agreed that its requirement of the Society would not apply to policies written or renewed after the acquisition.
Nederlandse Reassurantie Groep NV is now owned by Columbia Insurance Company, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
Whether the Society has any liability as a result of the ILUs requirement and, if so, the amount of its potential liability, is uncertain.
The Society has made no payment or provision in respect of this matter.
Group companies have given indemnities and guarantees as a normal part of their operating activities or in relation to capital market transactions.
44 Commitments i Capital commitments 2008 2007 m m Authorised and contracted commitments not provided for in respect of investment property development, payable after 31 December Long term business 35 158 ii Operating lease commitments 2008 2007 m m The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Not later than 1 year 34 25 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 130 122 Later than 5 years 333 363 497 510 Future aggregate minimum sublease payments expected to be received under operating subleases 10 8 The future aggregate minimum lease receivables under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Not later than 1 year 2 2 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 10 6 Later than 5 years 3 1 15 9 The Group leases offices and other premises under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 129
