Governance Report of the Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee leads the process for Board appointments The time commitment required of a non-executive director is and makes recommendations to the Board.
The Committee is chaired reviewed by the Committee on an ongoing basis.
On appointment, by the Group Chairman and comprises the non-executive directors, non-executive directors undertake that they have sufficient time to all of whom have been adjudged by the Board to be independent.
Attendance at meetings and Executive directors may attend meetings as appropriate by invitation.
the performance of individual directors are kept under review.
On any matter directly involving the Chairman, eg Chairman succession, The Committee keeps the structure, size and composition including the Committee is chaired by the senior independent director.
the skills, knowledge and experience of the Board under regular Duties review.
It performs a key role in ensuring the orderly succession The Committees role is to make recommendations to the Board on of Board and senior management appointments.
In satisfying the the appointment of directors: to ensure that arrangements for Board Board that succession arrangements are appropriate, the Committee and top management succession are adequate: to consider the has regard to the existing balance of skills and expertise, as well reappointment or otherwise of any non-executive director on expiry as likely future needs, taking account of the challenges and of their term of office and other matters relating to the continuation opportunities facing the Company.
The Committee keeps under in office of any director.
No director is present during discussions relating review the leadership needs of the organisation, both executive and to their appointment.
non-executive, with a view to ensuring the Companys continued ability to compete effectively in the marketplace.
The Committees approach is explained further below.
Activities The Committee leads the process for identifying and nominating, During 2008, the Committee met twice.
Matters considered included, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies.
reappointment of non-executive directors at the end of their term of Appointments to the Board are made on merit and assessed against office, succession planning for the Board and top management, and objective criteria.
Before identifying prospective candidates, the the Group Chief Executives performance review.
Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board against the requirements of the business.
Based on the Terms of Reference outcome of this evaluation, the Committee prepares a description The terms of reference of the Committee are available for inspection of the role and capabilities required.
The Committee uses external at the Companys registered office and can be viewed on the advisers to facilitate searches for potential candidates.
So far as possible, Companys corporate website www.
candidates from a wide range of backgrounds are considered.
The terms of appointment of non-executive directors can also be inspected at the Companys registered office or via the corporate website.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the with regard to the parent company Financial Statements that Directors Remuneration Report and the Group and the parent applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject company Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Financial and regulations.
Statements: and prepare the Group and parent company Financial Statements on Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be Group Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent company Financial Statements in accordance with applicable The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In preparing the Group of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements, the directors have also elected to comply with Financial Statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply IFRSs, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group Financial The Group and parent company Financial Statements are required Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
In preparing those Financial Statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent of the Groups website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing state that the Group Financial Statements comply with IFRSs as the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ adopted by the European Union and IFRSs issued by the IASB, and from legislation in other jurisdictions.
72 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
