Notes to the supplementary financial statements European Embedded Value Basis 1 Basis of preparation The methodology requires assets of an insurance company, as The supplementary financial statements have been prepared in reported in the primary financial statements, to be attributed accordance with the European Embedded Value EEV Principles between those supporting the covered business and the issued in May 2004 by the European Insurance CFO Forum.
The method accounts for assets in the covered business on an EEV basis and the remainder of the Groups assets These supplementary financial statements have been audited by on the IFRS basis adopted in the primary financial statements.
 LLP and prepared in conjunction with our consulting actuaries Tillinghast Towers-Perrin and, in the US, The EEV methodology recognises profit from the covered business Milliman USA.
as the total of: i. cash transfers during the relevant period from the covered Restatement business to the remainder of the Groups assets: and A contingent loan has been advanced by Legal & General ii.
the movement in the present value of future distributable Assurance Society Limited to Legal & General Pensions Limited profits to shareholders arising from the covered business over LGPL to finance the business that is reinsured to LGPL.
For 2008 the relevant reporting period.
the loan asset has been treated as part of the value of in-force business and offsets LGPLs liability.
Previously the value of the loan Embedded value 2008: 786m: 2007: 614m was included in free surplus, and the Shareholders equity on the EEV basis comprises the embedded expected return on the loan 2008: 64m: 2007: 51m included in value of the covered business plus the shareholders equity of contribution from shareholder net worth.
2007 comparatives have other businesses, less the value included for purchased interests in been restated accordingly.
There is no impact on profit after tax long term business.
The embedded value is the sum of the shareholder net worth For 2008 the managed pension funds business within Investment SNW and the value of the in-force business VIF.
SNW is defined management has been reported on an IFRS basis, as as those amounts, within covered business both within the management believe IFRS to be the most appropriate reporting long term fund and held outside the long term fund but used basis for the investment management business.
Investment to support long term business, which are regarded either as management operating profit excludes 35m 2007: 23m of required capital or which represent free surplus.
profits arising from the provision of investment management services at market referenced rates to the covered business.
The VIF is the present value of future shareholder profits arising These are reported on a look through basis within Risk, Savings from the covered business, projected using best estimate and Group capital and financing covered business on an EEV assumptions, less an appropriate deduction for the cost of basis.
This change has reduced 2007 operating profit before tax holding the required level of capital and the time value of by 64m, profit after tax by 59m and shareholders equity by financial options and guarantees FOGs.
2007 comparatives have been restated accordingly.
Service companies Segmental reporting All services relating to the UK covered business are charged New IFRS 8 segmentation has been adopted for 2008 to on a cost recovery basis, with the exception of investment further improve shareholders understanding of the Groups management services provided to LGPL, which have been performance.
The comparatives have been reclassified to reflect charged at market referenced rates since 1 January 2007, and to these changes.
Society, which have been charged at market referenced rates from 1 July 2007.
Profits arising on the provision of these services Covered business are valued on a look through basis.
The Group uses EEV methodology to value individual and group life assurance, pensions and annuity business written in the As the EEV methodology incorporates the future capitalised UK, Continental Europe and the US.
The UK covered business cost of these internal investment management services, the also includes non-insured self invested personal pension SIPP equivalent IFRS profits have been removed from the Investment business.
management segment and are instead included in the results of the Risk and Savings segments on an EEV basis.
For 2008, business written in our UK managed pension funds company was removed from covered business and the result of The capitalised value of future profits emerging from internal the managed pension funds business reported on an IFRS basis.
investment management services are therefore included in the 2007 comparatives have been restated accordingly.
embedded value and new business contribution calculations for the Risk and Savings segments.
However, the historical All other businesses are accounted for on the IFRS basis adopted profits which have emerged continue to be reported in the in the primary financial statements.
shareholders equity of the Investment management segment on an IFRS basis.
Since the look through into service companies There is no distinction made between insurance and investment includes only future profits and losses, current intra-group profits contracts in our covered business as there is under IFRS.
or losses must be eliminated from the closing embedded value and in order to reconcile the profits arising in the financial period Description of methodology within each segment with the net assets on the opening and The objective of EEV is to provide shareholders with realistic closing balance sheet, a transfer of IFRS profits for the period from information on the financial position and current performance of the UK SNW is deemed to occur.
158 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
