Notes to the supplementary financial statements European Embedded Value Basis 1 Basis of preparation The methodology requires assets of an insurance company, as The supplementary financial statements have been prepared in reported in the primary financial statements, to be attributed accordance with the European Embedded Value EEV Principles between those supporting the covered business and the issued in May 2004 by the European Insurance CFO Forum.
The method accounts for assets in the covered business on an EEV basis and the remainder of the Groups assets These supplementary financial statements have been audited by on the IFRS basis adopted in the primary financial statements.
 LLP and prepared in conjunction with our consulting actuaries Tillinghast Towers-Perrin and, in the US, The EEV methodology recognises profit from the covered business Milliman USA.
as the total of: i. cash transfers during the relevant period from the covered Restatement business to the remainder of the Groups assets: and A contingent loan has been advanced by Legal & General ii.
the movement in the present value of future distributable Assurance Society Limited to Legal & General Pensions Limited profits to shareholders arising from the covered business over LGPL to finance the business that is reinsured to LGPL.
For 2008 the relevant reporting period.
the loan asset has been treated as part of the value of in-force business and offsets LGPLs liability.
Previously the value of the loan Embedded value 2008: 786m: 2007: 614m was included in free surplus, and the Shareholders equity on the EEV basis comprises the embedded expected return on the loan 2008: 64m: 2007: 51m included in value of the covered business plus the shareholders equity of contribution from shareholder net worth.
2007 comparatives have other businesses, less the value included for purchased interests in been restated accordingly.
There is no impact on profit after tax long term business.
The embedded value is the sum of the shareholder net worth For 2008 the managed pension funds business within Investment SNW and the value of the in-force business VIF.
SNW is defined management has been reported on an IFRS basis, as as those amounts, within covered business both within the management believe IFRS to be the most appropriate reporting long term fund and held outside the long term fund but used basis for the investment management business.
Investment to support long term business, which are regarded either as management operating profit excludes 35m 2007: 23m of required capital or which represent free surplus.
profits arising from the provision of investment management services at market referenced rates to the covered business.
The VIF is the present value of future shareholder profits arising These are reported on a look through basis within Risk, Savings from the covered business, projected using best estimate and Group capital and financing covered business on an EEV assumptions, less an appropriate deduction for the cost of basis.
This change has reduced 2007 operating profit before tax holding the required level of capital and the time value of by 64m, profit after tax by 59m and shareholders equity by financial options and guarantees FOGs.
2007 comparatives have been restated accordingly.
Service companies Segmental reporting All services relating to the UK covered business are charged New IFRS 8 segmentation has been adopted for 2008 to on a cost recovery basis, with the exception of investment further improve shareholders understanding of the Groups management services provided to LGPL, which have been performance.
The comparatives have been reclassified to reflect charged at market referenced rates since 1 January 2007, and to these changes.
Society, which have been charged at market referenced rates from 1 July 2007.
Profits arising on the provision of these services Covered business are valued on a look through basis.
The Group uses EEV methodology to value individual and group life assurance, pensions and annuity business written in the As the EEV methodology incorporates the future capitalised UK, Continental Europe and the US.
The UK covered business cost of these internal investment management services, the also includes non-insured self invested personal pension SIPP equivalent IFRS profits have been removed from the Investment business.
management segment and are instead included in the results of the Risk and Savings segments on an EEV basis.
For 2008, business written in our UK managed pension funds company was removed from covered business and the result of The capitalised value of future profits emerging from internal the managed pension funds business reported on an IFRS basis.
investment management services are therefore included in the 2007 comparatives have been restated accordingly.
embedded value and new business contribution calculations for the Risk and Savings segments.
However, the historical All other businesses are accounted for on the IFRS basis adopted profits which have emerged continue to be reported in the in the primary financial statements.
shareholders equity of the Investment management segment on an IFRS basis.
Since the look through into service companies There is no distinction made between insurance and investment includes only future profits and losses, current intra-group profits contracts in our covered business as there is under IFRS.
or losses must be eliminated from the closing embedded value and in order to reconcile the profits arising in the financial period Description of methodology within each segment with the net assets on the opening and The objective of EEV is to provide shareholders with realistic closing balance sheet, a transfer of IFRS profits for the period from information on the financial position and current performance of the UK SNW is deemed to occur.
158 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Supplementary Financial Statements New business Tax New business premiums reflect income arising from the sale of The projections take into account all tax which is expected to new contracts during the reporting period and any changes to be paid, based on best estimate assumptions, applying current existing contracts, which were not anticipated at the outset of the legislation and practice together with known or expected future contract.
This includes tax which would arise if surplus assets within the covered business were eventually to be distributed.
The In-force business comprises previously written single premium, benefit of certain current UK tax rules on the apportionment of regular premium and recurrent single premium contracts.
income has not been reflected as it is expected that these rules will be amended before such benefit is realised.
Department of Work and Pensions rebates have not been treated as recurrent and are included in single premium new business Allowance for risk when received.
Aggregate risks within the covered business are allowed for through the following principal mechanisms: New business contribution arising from the new business i. setting required capital levels with reference to both the premiums written during the reporting period has been Groups internal risk based capital models, and an assessment calculated on the same economic and operating assumptions of the strength of regulatory reserves in the covered business: used in the embedded value at the end of the financial period.
allowing explicitly for the time value of financial options and This has then been rolled forward to the end of the financial guarantees within the Groups products: and period using the risk discount rate applicable at the end of the iii.
setting risk discount rates by deriving a Group level risk margin reporting period.
to be applied consistently to local risk free rates.
The present value of new business premiums PVNBP has been Required capital and free surplus calculated and expressed at the point of sale.
The PVNBP is Regulatory capital for Risk and Savings businesses is provided by equivalent to the total single premiums plus the discounted value assets backing the with-profits business or by the SNW.
The SNW of regular premiums expected to be received over the term of the comprises all shareholders capital within Society, including those contracts using the same economic and operating assumptions funds retained within the long term fund and the excess assets in used for the embedded value at the end of the financial period.
LGPL collectively Society shareholder capital.
The new business margin is defined as new business contribution at the end of the reporting period divided by the PVNBP.
The Society shareholder capital is either required to cover EU solvency premium volumes and projection assumptions used to calculate margin or is free surplus as its distribution to shareholders is not the PVNBP are the same as those used to calculate new business restricted.
For UK with-profits business, the required capital is covered by Projection assumptions the surplus within the with-profits part of the fund and no effect Cash flow projections are determined using realistic assumptions is attributed to shareholders except for the burn-through cost, for each component of cash flow and for each policy group.
This treatment is consistent with the Future economic and investment return assumptions are Principles and Practices of Financial Management for this part of based on conditions at the end of the financial period.
investment returns are projected by one of two methods.
The first method is based on an assumed investment return attributed to For UK non profit business, the required capital will be maintained assets at their market value.
The second, which is used in the US, at no less than the level of the EU minimum solvency requirement.
where the investments of that subsidiary are substantially all fixed This level, together with the margins for adverse deviation in the interest, projects the cash flows from the current portfolio of assets regulatory reserves, is, in aggregate, in excess of internal capital and assumes an investment return on reinvestment of surplus cash targets assessed in conjunction with the Individual Capital flows.
The assumed discount and inflation rates are consistent with Assessment ICA and the with-profits support account.
The initial strains relating to new non profit business, together with Detailed projection assumptions including mortality, morbidity, the related EU solvency margin, are supported by releases from persistency, and expenses reflect recent operating experience existing non profit business and the Society shareholder capital.
Allowance is made for future As a consequence, the writing of new business defers the release improvements in annuitant mortality based on experience and of capital to free surplus.
The cost of holding required capital externally published data.
Favourable changes in operating is defined as the difference between the value of the required experience are not anticipated until the improvement in capital and the present value of future releases of that capital.
For new business, the cost of capital is taken as the difference in the value of that capital assuming it was available for release All costs relating to the covered business, whether incurred in immediately and the present value of the future releases of that the covered business or elsewhere in the Group, are allocated capital.
As the investment return, net of tax, on that capital is less to that business.
The expense assumptions used for the cash flow than the risk discount rate, there is a resulting cost of capital which projections therefore include the full cost of servicing this business.
is reflected in the value of new business.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 159 Notes to the supplementary financial statements European Embedded Value Basis continued 1 Basis of preparation continued In recognising the residual value of any projected surplus assets For Legal & General America, the Company Action Level CAL within the with-profits part of the fund in the deterministic of capital has been treated as required capital for modelling projection, it is assumed that terminal bonuses are increased to purposes.
The CAL is the regulatory capital level at which exhaust all of the assets in the part of the fund over the future the company would have to take prescribed action, such as lifetime of the in-force with-profits policies.
However, under submission of plans to the State insurance regulator, but would stochastic modelling, there may be some extreme economic be able to continue operating on the existing basis.
The CAL scenarios when the total projected assets within the with-profits is currently twice the level of capital at which the regulator is part of the fund are insufficient to pay all projected policyholder permitted to take control of the business.
The average additional shareholder cost arising from this shortfall has been included in the time value For Legal & General Netherlands, required capital has been set cost of options and guarantees and is referred to as the withat 100% of EU minimum solvency margin for all products without profits burn-through cost.
For those products with FOGs, capital of between 100% and 175% of the EU minimum solvency margin has been used.
Economic scenarios have been used to assess the time value The level of capital has been determined using risk based capital of the financial guarantees for non profit business by using the techniques.
inflation rate generated in each scenario.
The inflation rate used to project index-linked annuities will be constrained in certain real For Legal & General France, 100% of EU minimum solvency world scenarios, for example, where negative inflation occurs but margin has been used for EV modelling purposes for all products the annuity payments do not reduce below pre-existing levels.
both with and without FOGs.
The level of capital has been The time value cost of FOGs allows for the projected average determined using risk based capital techniques.
cost of these constrained payments for the index-linked annuities.
It also allows for the small additional cost of the guaranteed The contribution from new business for our International early retirement and cash commutation terms for the minority businesses reflects an appropriate allowance for the cost of of deferred annuity business where such guarantees have been holding the required capital.
Financial options and guarantees In the US, FOGs relate to guaranteed minimum crediting rates In the UK, all financial options and guarantees FOGs are within and surrender values on a range of contracts.
The guaranteed the covered business.
surrender value of the contract is based on the accumulated value of the contract including accrued interest.
The crediting Under the EEV Principles an allowance for time value of FOGs is rates are discretionary but related to the accounting income for required where a financial option exists which is exercisable at the the amortising bond portfolio.
The majority of the guaranteed discretion of the policyholder.
These types of option principally minimum crediting rates are between 4% and 5%.
The assets arise within the with-profits part of the fund and their time value is backing these contracts are invested in US Dollar denominated recognised within the with-profits burn-through cost described fixed interest securities.
Additional financial options for non profit business exist only for a small amount of deferred annuity business where In the Netherlands, there are two types of guarantees which guaranteed early retirement and cash commutation terms apply have been separately provided for: interest rate guarantees when the policyholders choose their actual retirement date.
Certain contracts provide an interest rate guarantee where there is a minimum crediting rate based Further financial guarantees exist for non profit business, in relation on the higher of 1- year Euribor and the policy guarantee rate.
to index-linked annuities where capped or collared restrictions This guarantee applies on a monthly basis.
Due to the nature of these restrictions and the manner in contracts provide a guaranteed minimum value at maturity which they vary depending on the prevailing inflation conditions, where the maturity amount is the higher of the fund value and a they are also treated as FOGs and a time value cost recognised guarantee amount.
The fund values for both these contracts are accordingly.
invested in Euro denominated fixed interest securities.
The time value of FOGs has been calculated stochastically using In France, FOGs which have been separately provided for relate a large number of real world economic scenarios derived from to guaranteed minimum crediting rates and surrender values assumptions consistent with the deterministic EEV assumptions on a range of contracts.
The guaranteed surrender value of the and allowing for appropriate management actions where contract is the accumulated value of the contract including applicable.
The management action primarily relates to the accrued bonuses.
The bonuses are based on the accounting setting of bonus rates.
Future regular and terminal bonuses on income for the amortising bond portfolios plus income and participating business within the projections are set in a manner releases from realised gains on any equity type investments.
consistent with expected future returns available on assets Policy liabilities equal guaranteed surrender values.
Local deemed to back the policies within the stochastic scenarios.
statutory accounting rules require the establishment of a specific liability when the accounting income for a company is less than 125% of the guaranteed minimum credited returns, although this has never been required.
In general, the guaranteed annual bonus rates are between 0% and 4.5%.
160 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Supplementary Financial Statements Risk discount rate The contribution to operating profit in a period is attributed to The risk discount rate RDR is a combination of the risk free rate four sources: and a risk margin, which reflects the residual risks inherent in the i. new business: Groups covered businesses, after taking account of prudential ii.
the management of in-force business: margins in the statutory provisions, the required capital and the iii.
development costs: and specific allowance for FOGs.
return on shareholder net worth.
The risk margin has been determined based on an assessment Further profit contributions arise from actual investment returns of the Groups weighted average cost of capital WACC.
This differing from the assumed long term investment returns assessment incorporates a beta for the Group, which measures investment return variances, and from the effect of economic the correlation of movements in the Groups share price to assumption changes.
Beta values therefore allow for the markets assessment of the risks inherent in the business relative to The contribution from new business represents the value other companies in the chosen index.
recognised at the end of each period from new business written in that period, after allowing for the actual cost of acquiring the The WACC is derived from the Groups cost of equity and debt, business and of establishing the required technical provisions and and the proportion of equity to debt in the Groups capital reserves and after making allowance for the cost of capital.
New structure measured using market values.
Each of these three business contributions are calculated using closing assumptions.
parameters are forward looking, although informed by historic information.
The cost of equity is calculated as the risk free rate The contribution from in-force business is calculated using plus the equity risk premium for the chosen index multiplied by opening assumptions and comprises: the Companys beta.
Forward-looking or adjusted betas make i. expected return the discount earned from the value of allowance for the observed tendency for betas to revert to 1 and business in-force at the start of the year: therefore a weighted average of the historic beta and 1 tends to ii.
experience variances the variance in the actual experience be a better estimate of the Companys beta for the future period.
over the reporting period from that assumed in the value of We have computed the WACC using an arithmetical average of business in-force as at the start of the year: and forward-looking betas against the FTSE 100 index.
operating assumption changes the effects of changes in future assumptions, other than changes in economic The cost of debt used in the WACC calculations takes account of assumptions from those used in valuing the business at the start the actual locked-in rates for our senior and subordinated long of the year.
These changes are made prospectively from the term debt.
All debt interest attracts tax relief at a rate of 28%.
Whilst the WACC approach is a relatively simple and transparent Development costs relate to investment in strategic systems and calculation to apply, subjectivity remains within a number of the development capability.
Management believes that the chosen margin, together with the levels of required capital, the inherent strength The contribution from shareholder net worth comprises the of the Groups regulatory reserves and the explicit deduction for increase in embedded value based on assumptions at the start the cost of options and guarantees, is appropriate to reflect the of the year in respect of the expected investment return on the risks within the covered business.
For the 2008 results the risk margin was increased to 4.5% 31.12.07: Further profit contributions arise from investment return variances 3.0%.
This 1.5% increase includes a 0.5% increase in the equity risk and the effect of economic assumption changes.
premium and a further 1% increase to reflect increased market perceived company specific risks in the current dislocated market Investment return variances represent the effect of actual conditions.
investment performance and changes to investment policy on shareholder net worth and the value of in-force business from that Key assumptions are summarised below: assumed at the beginning of the period.
Risk free rate Derived from gross redemption yield Economic assumption changes comprise the effect of changes on the 20 year gilt index in economic variables on shareholder net worth and the value Equity risk premium 3.5% UK only of in-force business from that assumed at the beginning of the Property risk premium 2.0% UK only period, which are beyond the control of management, including Risk margin 4.5% associated changes to valuation bases to the extent that they are reflected in revised assumptions.
Analysis of profit Operating profit is identified at a level which reflects an assumed longer term level of investment return.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 161
