Company Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies The relationship between the hedging instrument and the Basis of preparation hedged item, together with the risk management objective and The Companys financial statements have been prepared strategy for undertaking the hedge transaction, are documented under the historical cost convention, modified by the revaluation at the inception of the transaction.
The effectiveness of the of certain assets, as required by the Companies Act 1985 as hedge is documented and monitored on an ongoing basis.
amended by the Companies Act 1989 and subsequent statutory Hedge accounting is only applied for highly effective hedges instruments, and in accordance with applicable UK accounting between 80% and 125% effectiveness with any ineffective standards.
portion of the gain or loss recognised in the profit and loss account in the current period.
The Companys financial statements have been prepared in compliance with Section 226 of, and Schedule 4 to, the Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge Companies Act 1985 adopting the exemption of omitting the accounting.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative profit and loss account conferred by Section 230 of that Act.
instruments which do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Investment income Investment income includes dividends and interest.
Dividends Borrowings receivable from Group companies are recognised in the period Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction in which the dividends are declared and approved at the costs.
Borrowings classified as liabilities are subsequently stated general meeting or paid.
Interest income is recognised using the at amortised cost.
The difference between the net proceeds and effective interest method.
the redemption value is recognised in the profit and loss account over the borrowing period using the effective interest method.
Distributions Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is Deferred tax recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the balance sheet authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
liability method, on temporary differences between the carrying Final dividends are accrued when approved by the Companys amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes shareholders at a general meeting and interim dividends are and the amounts used for tax purposes.
Deferred tax is measured recognised when paid.
using tax rates expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is Interest expense settled, based on tax rates and law which have been enacted Interest expense reflects the underlying cost of borrowing, based or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred on the effective interest method, and includes payments and income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable receipts made under derivative instruments which are amortised that future taxable profits will be available against which the over the interest period to which they relate.
temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Investment in subsidiary undertakings Shares in subsidiary undertakings are stated at the Companys Foreign currencies share of their net assets.
Unrealised gains or losses arising Foreign currency transactions are translated into sterling, the on investments in subsidiary undertakings are taken to the Companys functional and presentational currency, using the revaluation reserve.
exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in the profit and loss Loans and receivables account.
Loans and receivables are held at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Pension costs The Company participates in multi-employer defined benefit Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting schemes, within the meaning of FRS 17, Retirement Benefits, The Companys activities expose it to the financial risks of which, as its share of the underlying assets and liabilities cannot changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The be identified, have been treated for reporting purposes as Company uses derivatives such as foreign exchange forward defined contribution schemes.
In addition to these schemes the contracts and interest rate swap contracts to hedge these Company also contributes to defined contribution schemes.
The Company uses hedge accounting, provided the Company charges the costs of its pension schemes against profit prescribed criteria are met, to recognise the offsetting effects of as incurred.
Any difference between the cumulative amounts changes in the fair value or cash flow of the derivative instrument charged against profits and contribution amounts paid is and the hedged item.
The Companys principal use of hedge included as a provision or prepayment in the balance sheet.
accounting is to hedge the fair value movements in loans due to interest rate and exchange rate fluctuations.
Any gain or loss from The assets of the defined benefit schemes are held in separate remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised trustee administered funds, which have been subject to regular immediately in the profit and loss account.
Any gain or loss on the valuation every three years and updated by formal reviews at hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against reporting dates by qualified actuaries who were employees of the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the the Group.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 179
