Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued Share-based payments Details of the categories of risk to the Company and high level The Company operates a number of share-based payment plans management processes are set out below.
Defined policies on behalf of its subsidiaries.
The fair value of the equity instruments for the management of its key risks are in place, the operation granted is spread over the vesting period of the instrument and of which are supported by risk review functions and are treated as a capital contribution to the respective subsidiary.
The independently confirmed by Group internal audit.
total capital contribution is determined by reference to the fair value of the awards, excluding the impact of any non-market Market risk vesting conditions.
Market risk is the risk arising from fluctuations in interest and exchange rates and market valuations.
At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments which are expected to become Credit risk exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original Credit risk is the risk that the Company is exposed to loss if another estimate, if any, in the cost of the investment in the subsidiary party fails to perform its financial obligations to the Company.
and a corresponding adjustment is made to equity over the remaining vesting period.
On vesting or exercise, the difference Credit risk is managed through the setting and regular review between the accumulated capital contribution and the actual of detailed counterparty credit and concentration limits.
cost to the Company is transferred to retained earnings.
Where Compliance with these limits for investment and treasury new shares are issued, the proceeds received are credited to transactions is monitored daily.
The Counterparty Credit share capital and share premium.
Any capital contribution is Committee oversees these processes.
Counterparties used for the subsequently recharged to the respective subsidiary as incurred provision of hedging derivatives have a minimum credit rating of and the corresponding cost of investment is reduced.
The Companys maximum exposure to credit risk on its financial assets at the balance sheet date is equal Share buyback to the value of the derivative assets.
Where shares are cancelled under the share buyback programme, the consideration paid, including any directly Liquidity risk attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company, though solvent, either attributable to shareholders.
As required by the Companies Act does not have sufficient financial resources available to enable it 1985, the equivalent of the nominal value of shares cancelled is to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure them only at transferred to a capital redemption reserve.
2 Risk management A degree of liquidity risk is implicit in the Company.
Liquidity risk Management of risk arises as a consequence of the uncertainty surrounding the The Company, in course of its business activities, is exposed to value and timing of cash flows.
The Companys treasury function market, credit and liquidity risk.
Overall responsibility for the manages liquidity to ensure that it maintains sufficient liquid assets management of these risks is vested in the Board.
To support it and standby facilities to meet a prudent estimate of its net cash in this role, a risk framework is in place comprising a structure of outflows.
formal committees, risk assessment and reporting processes and risk review functions.
The framework provides assurance that risks are being appropriately identified and managed and that an independent assessment of risks is being performed.
Risk assessment processes A continuous process is in place formally identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks to the achievement of the Companys objectives.
A standard approach is used to assess risks.
Senior management and the risk review functions see below review the output of the assessments.
Risk review functions Risk review functions provide oversight of the risk management processes within the Company.
Responsibilities include the evaluation of changes in the business operating environment and business processes, the assessment of these changes on risks to business and the monitoring of the mitigating actions.
They also ensure that risk committees are provided with meaningful risk reports and that there is appropriate information to assess risk issues.
180 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
