Financial Performance FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Company Financial Statements 1.
Accounting policies Dividends Basis of preparation Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost liability in the financial statements, and directly in equity, in the period in convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards in which the dividend is paid or approved by the Companys shareholders, the United Kingdom issued by the Accounting Standards Board and with if required.
Dividends received from subsidiary undertakings are the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 the Act.
recognised in the period in which they are received.
The Company reviews and updates its accounting policies, in accordance with the requirements of Financial Reporting Standard FRS Cash flow statement 18 Accounting Policies on a regular basis.
During the year the Company The Company need not present a cash flow statement in accordance adopted FRS 29 and has taken advantage of the exemption from with FRS 1 Revised.
It has taken the exemption from publishing its providing further financial risk disclosures.
profit and loss account and related notes under Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
Profits of the Company The profit for the financial year dealt with in the Company was Deferred taxation $4,260 million 2007: $2,123 million.
In accordance with Section 230 Deferred tax is recognised on all timing differences where the of the Companies Act 1985, a separate profit and loss account has not transactions or events that give rise to an obligation to pay more tax in been presented for the Company.
the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred by the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is only recognised to the extent There are no recognised gains and losses other than the result for the that it is more likely than not that it can be recovered.
The Company does year and hence no statement of recognised gains and losses for the not discount its deferred tax position as the effect would not be material.
Segmental reporting Foreign currencies The Company, being an investment holding company, only has one Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency segment.
using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transactions, or where it is more practical an average rate for the week or month for all transactions in each foreign currency occurring during that week or Share capital month as long as the relevant exchange rates do not fluctuate Contracts entered into with a third party to buy back the Companys significantly.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the shares during a close period gives rise to an obligation for the Company.
settlement of such transactions and from the translation at period end This obligation is included in other creditors and deducted from equity exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign on the balance sheet for the value of the maximum number of shares that currencies are recognised in other operating income and losses in the may be purchased under the contract with the third party.
If the number profit and loss account.
of shares repurchased by the third party is not the maximum then there is a reversal through equity for that amount.
Any changes in the share price from the date of the contract are taken through the profit and Subsidiary and associate undertakings loss account.
The Companys shares in subsidiary and associate undertakings are stated in the balance sheet of the Company at cost less provision for any impairment incurred.
Financial instruments The Company provides full financial instruments disclosures in accordance with IFRS 7 in its consolidated financial statements.
Details can be found Borrowings in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.
Consequently, the Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 29 from costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
providing further financial instruments disclosures.
Any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised as interest expense in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective Related party transactions interest method.
The Company provides full related party disclosures in its consolidated Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Company has financial statements.
Details can be found in Note 27 to the consolidated an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least financial statements.
Consequently, the Company has taken advantage 12 months after the balance sheet date.
of the exemption in FRS 8 not to disclose related party transactions with other members of Man Group plc.
Share-based payments Although the Company does not incur a charge, the issuance by the Company to its subsidiaries of an award over the Companys shares represents additional capital contributions by the Company in its subsidiaries.
An additional investment in subsidiaries results with a corresponding increase in shareholders equity.
The additional capital contribution is based on the fair value of the awards issued spread over the underlying awards vesting periods.
131 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
