Financial Performance FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AUDITORS REPORT ON THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Auditors Report on the Parent Company Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Man Group plc Basis of audit opinion We have audited the parent company financial statements of Man Group We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 which comprise the Balance Sheet on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
These parent company financial statements have An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements also audited the information in the Remuneration Report that is described and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes as having been audited.
an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Man and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2008, on page 84. circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide Remuneration Report and the parent company financial statements in us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 42. caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Remuneration Report to be audited.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, Opinion has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in In our opinion: accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 March 2008: report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies parent company financial statements.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors The information given in the Directors Report includes that information London presented in the Chief Executive Officers Report, Business Review, Core 29 May 2008 Investment Managers and Financial Performance, which is crossreferenced from the Principal activities, business review and results section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Report and the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
129 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
