Financial Performance FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Principal Accounting Policies The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance Basis of preparation with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise The investment products we sell are issued by independent fund entities standards and interpretations issued by either the International for whom we act as the investment manager.
The fund entities have Accounting Standards Board IASB or the International Financial independent boards of directors with independent governance and Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC or their predecessors, decision making powers.
The fund entities results, assets and liabilities as adopted by the European Union EU and with those parts of the are therefore separate from the Group and are not consolidated into the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the The results of investment management activities are reflected in the historical cost convention, except for the measurement at fair value of Groups financial statements as performance fees and management derivative financial instruments and certain financial assets that are and other fees and associated receivables.
available for sale or held at fair value through profit or loss.
The investment performance of the fund products managed by the On 30 March 2007, the directors announced that they intended to Group is detailed in the Business Review and Core Investment Manager separate the Brokerage business, to be effected by an initial public sections of the Annual Report, and represents a key indicator of the offering IPO on the New York Stock Exchange of a majority interest in Groups overall performance and future sustainability of results.
On 19 July 2007, 81.4% of the shares in the Brokerage The objective of these consolidated financial statements is to explain the business were sold in the IPO.
Hence the Brokerage business has been results for the year ended 31 March 2008 and the financial position of classified as a discontinued operation in both the 2008 and 2007 the Group on that date, together with comparative information.
Following the disposal of Brokerage, the Groups principal activity is Impact of new accounting standards in investment management and the opportunity has been taken to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosure and an amendment to IAS 1 restructure and reformat the financial statements to provide a clearer, Presentation of financial statements on capital disclosures were issued more logical presentation of the Groups activities.
by the IASB in August 2005 and have been adopted by the Group for Previously, the Balance Sheet has been classified between current and reporting in its financial year ended 31 March 2008.
This new standard non current assets and liabilities.
This year, the Balance Sheet follows and the revision to IAS 1 add further quantitative and qualitative a liquidity format.
The directors believe that this presentation is more disclosures in relation to financial instruments and how an entity manages relevant as the majority of the Groups assets are marked to current its capital resources.
market values or will be realised within the next fiscal year.
The Income New accounting standards issued that become effective in future years Statement has been changed from previous years to show more clearly are considered in Note 31. the sources of revenue and the nature of expense incurred.
Changes in the presentation of the Balance Sheet and Income Statement are Summary of significant accounting policies explained in detail and reconciled in Note 32.
The Groups principal accounting policies have been consistently applied The Summary of Significant Accounting Policies describes the accounting to all the years presented in these financial statements.
Comparative policies that are material in the preparation of the primary financial information has been reclassified where applicable further details are statements.
Other accounting policies that relate to specific items in the given in Note 32. financial statements have been incorporated within the relevant financial statements notes that provide details of the particular item.
Consolidation Subsidiaries are all entities including employee share ownership trusts Financial statement line items that are not material to the overall results or over which the Group has the power to control the financial and operating financial position have been aggregated with similar items and presented policies.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are as one amount.
A description of the types of items has been added where currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing this is considered necessary to understand the aggregate line item.
whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully Where appropriate, graphic presentations have been used to convey consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are removed from consolidation from the date that control ceases.
Inter-company transactions and balances between Group companies These changes have been made with the objective of presenting a are eliminated.
clearer view of the Groups financial position and results, making the financial statements more readable and understandable to our Associates stakeholders.
Associates are all entities in which the Group holds an interest and over The financial statements should be read in the context of the overall which it has significant influence but not control.
Investments in associates Annual Report and cross references have been added to make are generally accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are navigation through the report easier.
initially recognised at cost, except for investments in certain fund entities see below.
Under the equity method, the Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses after tax is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
Where the Group has investments in certain fund entities over which it is able to exert significant influence but not control, these are classified as associates.
The Group has applied the scope exclusion within IAS 28 Investments in Associates for mutual funds, unit trusts and similar entities and has classified such holdings as investments and measured them at fair value through the income statement in accordance with IAS 39.
89 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Principal Accounting Policies continued Acquisitions Investments The cost of an acquisition of a subsidiary or business is measured as the 1 Classification fair value of the assets received, equity instruments issued and liabilities The Group classifies its investments in the following categories: financial incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly assets at fair value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: and attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the and contingent liabilities assumed in an acquisition are measured initially purpose for which the investments were acquired.
Management at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any determines the classification of investments at initial recognition and reminority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value evaluates, where permitted, this designation at each reporting date.
of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss acquisition goodwill.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or whenever events or purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated by management.
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be Derivative contracts are also categorised as held for trading unless they recoverable.
b Loans and receivables Foreign currency translation Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or 1 Functional and presentation currency determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which arise when the Group provides money or services directly to a debtor is the Companys functional and presentation currency and the currency with no intention of trading the receivable.
in which the majority of the Groups revenue streams, assets, liabilities and funding is denominated.
Items included in the financial statements c Available-for-sale financial assets of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative equity investments primary economic environment in which the entity operates the that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the functional currency.
2 Transactions and balances 2 Measurement Foreign currency transactions are translated into the relevant Group Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on trade-date, entitys functional currency using the exchange rate prevailing at the date the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
of the transactions or, where it is more practical, an average rate over the Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting Investments are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at period the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Availableforeign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when for-sale financial assets and financial assets and liabilities at fair value deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges.
through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value in the balance sheet.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the 3 Translation of foreign operations effective interest method.
Fair value gains and losses arising from The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a changes in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities at fair value functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated through profit or loss are included in performance fee income in the into the presentation currency as follows: income statement in the period in which they arise.
Fair value gains and a assets including goodwill and fair value adjustments on the acquisition losses arising from changes in the fair value of available-for-sale of a foreign entity and liabilities for each balance sheet are translated at investments are recognised as a separate component of equity until the the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: investment is sold or otherwise disposed of, or until the investment is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss b income and expenses for each income statement are translated at previously reported in equity is included in performance fee income in average exchange rates for the relevant accounting periods: the income statement.
c all resulting exchange differences are included in the cumulative translation adjustment reserve within equity.
The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices.
If the market for a financial asset is not active and for unlisted securities, the Group establishes fair value by using appropriate valuation techniques.
These include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, and option pricing models refined to reflect the issuers specific circumstances.
Specific details of the methods used to obtain fair values for investments are included within Note 12.
90 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Financial Performance FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 3 Impairment Sales commissions The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is Upfront commissions are payable to distributors and to employees when objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is a fund product is first launched.
The majority of commissions paid are impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, capitalised and amortised over the period in which income from the fund a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its product is expected to be earned in future periods.
Trail commissions are cost is considered in determining whether the security is impaired.
If any payments made to distributors for ongoing services and are charged to such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
loss, measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on the financial asset Compensation previously recognised in profit or loss, is removed from equity and Salaries and wages, including bonuses, are charged to the income recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Bonuses are based the income statement on available-for-sale equity instruments are not on a formula that takes into consideration the profit attributable to the reversed through the income statement.
The fair value of equity based compensation, including share awards and options granted, is recognised as an Trade and other receivables expense over the vesting period.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less Current and deferred tax provision for impairment.
The current tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where Borrowings the Groups subsidiaries and associates operate and generate taxable Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction income.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary Any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Interest expense is recognised in finance costs in the income statement.
Income recognition 1 Revenue Revenue is recognised as follows: a Performance fees Performance fees are calculated as a percentage of the net appreciation of the relevant fund products net asset value at the end of a given contractual period referred to as the performance period.
In accordance with IAS 18, performance fees are only recognised once they can be measured reliably.
The Group can only reliably measure performance fees at the end of the performance period as the net asset value of the fund products could move significantly, as a result of market movements, between the Groups balance sheet date and the end of the performance period.
b Management and other fees Management fees, which include all non-performance related fees and interest income from loans to funds, are recognised in the period in which the services are rendered.
Interest income from loans to fund products has been included in management and other fees on the basis that it is akin to management fees earned from fund products.
2 Dividend and non-fund product related income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
91 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Principal Accounting Policies continued 2 Treatment of fund entities of which the Group is the investment Critical accounting estimates and judgements manager In the preparation of the consolidated financial statements management Certain subsidiaries of the Group act as the investment manager to a is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported number of fund entities and in addition provide a number of other amount of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure administrative services.
Having considered all significant aspects of the of contingent liabilities.
If in the future such estimates and assumptions, Groups relationships with the fund entities, the directors are of the opinion which are based on managements best judgement at the date of that, although the Group may have significant influence over fund entities, preparation of the financial statements deviate from actual circumstances, the existence of the investment management contract and provision of the original estimates and assumptions will be modified as appropriate in other administrative services do not give the Group control over the fund the period in which the circumstances change.
The areas where a higher entities.
The key considerations taken into account in reaching this degree of judgement or complexity arise, or areas where assumptions and judgement include: the existence of independent, empowered boards of estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are directors: the influence of investors: the investment management contract discussed below.
termination provisions: and, the arms length nature of the Groups 1 Use of fair values contracts with the fund entities.
The Group uses fair values to measure many of its investments, goodwill 3 Goodwill and other intangible assets Note 15 and other intangible assets and obligations such as pension liabilities The valuation and amortisation periods of intangible assets arising on and employee share awards.
Given the uncertainty and subjective nature acquisition and the impairment testing of goodwill are based on value in of valuing assets and obligations at fair value, it is possible that the outcomes use calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions within the next financial year could be different from the assumptions used and estimates of future cash flows and discount rates.
and this could therefore result in a significant adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities measured using fair values.
This is The amortisation period of sales commissions, representing the Groups particularly the case where the Group establishes the fair value of contractual right to benefit from future income from providing investment assets or liabilities by using appropriate valuation techniques.
Valuation management services, is based on managements estimate of the weighted techniques used to calculate fair values include comparisons with similar average period over which the Group expects to earn economic benefit financial instruments for which observable prices exist, discounted cash from the investor being invested in each fund product.
Management estimate flow analysis and option pricing models.
that this period is five years in both the current and the comparative year.
4 Taxation Note 5 The Group is subject to income taxes in many jurisdictions.
Judgement Index to footnotes is required in determining estimates in relation to the worldwide provision for income taxes.
There are transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that Note number were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and Sales commissions 1 deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
Employees and compensation 2 Auditors remuneration 3 Net finance income 4 Taxation 5, 13 EPS 6 Dividends 7 Financial risk and capital management 8 Fair value of financial assets and liabilities 9 Cash and cash equivalents 10 Trade and other receivables 11 Investments 12, 14 Intangible assets 15 Property, plant and equipment 16 Trade and other payables 17 Borrowings 18 Share capital and reserves 19-22 Cash generated from continuing operations 23 Acquisitions 24 Disposals 25 Events after the balance sheet date 26 Related party transactions 27 Employee trusts 28 Exchange rates 29 Segmental analysis 30 New accounting standards 31 Reconciliation of comparative period information 32 92 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
