Financial Performance FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12.
Investments in financial assets The Groups investments in financial assets comprise: Investment in fund products: Amounts owed by fund products The Group makes available both committed and uncommitted short-term loans to fund products, immediately following their launch, with the intention of providing temporary funding until more permanent financing structures are put in place with external providers.
Accordingly, the amount of loans to funds will vary from one period to the next as a consequence of the net effect of the level of sales in the period less the quantum of the external re-financing initiative in the period.
Loans to funds are classified as loans and receivables and are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Floating rate interest is received on loans to funds.
Other investments in fund products Investments in fund products are seeding investments Note 8 b i, liquidity investments to aid investors wishing to buy and sell investments in the fund products, or investments in the equity and debt tranches of collateralised products which are the result of contractual obligations to facilitate external investment in fund products, and external fund financing.
The majority of these investments are not held for the long term and there are frequent changes in the aggregate amount of the Groups ownership of investments.
The majority of other investments in fund products are held at fair value through profit or loss.
The fair value of seeding and liquidity investments are determined by using the fair values of the underlying investments, the majority of which are provided by external valuation service providers.
The fair values of collateralised debt and fund obligations are provided by third party investment banks and are determined using financial models that take into account a number of factors, including general interest rate and market conditions, macroeconomic and deal-specific credit fundamentals, and the use of cash flow projections based on assumptions regarding default and recovery.
The models used and the assumptions made are reviewed by the Groups risk managers.
Other investments: Residual stake in MF Global Following the disposal of Brokerage Note 25 the Group retained a residual 18.6% investment in MF Global.
These shares are classified as available-for-sale financial assets.
MF Global is listed on the NYSE and the fair value of the investment in MF Global is determined by the quoted bid price at the balance sheet date.
Exchange shares Exchange shares are equity instruments that provide the holder the same rights to an exchange as a market seat membership.
Exchange shares are classified as available-for-sale financial assets.
The fair values of listed exchange shares are determined by the quoted bid price at the balance sheet date.
The fair values of unlisted exchange shares and memberships are determined using the exchanges internal auction process, where the last traded price is used to establish the fair value.
107 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
