SHAREHOLDER AND COMPANY INFORMATION Shareholder and Company Information Payment of dividends to mandated Single company ISA Man Group website accounts For details of the Man Group plc single Shareholders are encouraged to visit our Each dividend warrant includes a form for company ISA managed by Equiniti, please website www.
com establishing payments of future dividends contact the Man Group ISA Helpline which contains key information on the Group directly to the bank or building society of your on 0871 384 2244. including announcements, presentations, choice.
Shareholders are encouraged to use news and shareholder information, including Share dealing service this facility.
Cleared funds are provided on the latest Man Group plc share price.
Man Group has arranged for Shareview payment date and the associated tax voucher Dealing, a telephone and internet share dealing Alternatively, contact Investor Relations via is sent directly to the shareholders registered, service offered by Equiniti, to be made available email on investor@mangroupplc.
or other previously designated, address.
For telephone dealing call Unsolicited mail Private shareholders living overseas may be 0871 456 037 037 between 8.30 am and 4.30 The Company is obliged by law to make its able to mandate their dividends directly into a pm Monday to Friday and for internet dealing share register publicly available and as a local bank account in the chosen countrys log on to www.
You consequence some shareholders may receive domestic currency under the Overseas will need your shareholder reference number unsolicited mail.
If you wish to limit the amount Payment Service.
Details are available via shown on your share certificate.
of unsolicited mail you receive, contact: www.
co. uk or the shareholder Multiple accounts on the shareholder The Mailing Preference Service, DMA House, enquiries facility of Equiniti.
register 70 Margaret Street, London W1W 8SS, England.
Annual General Meeting If you have received two or more copies of this Tel: 020 7291 3310 or register on-line The Annual General Meeting will be held at document, this means that there is more than at www.
The Mailing 11.00 am on Thursday 10 July 2008 at the one account in your name on the shareholder Preference Service is an independent Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, register.
This may be caused by either your organisation which offers a free service Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London name or address appearing on each account to the public.
Registering with them will stop SW1P 3EE.
For security reasons, most unsolicited consumer advertising material.
the Registrars will not amalgamate the accounts Shareholder enquiries Warning to shareholders without your written consent, so if you would All administration queries concerning Over the last year many companies have like any multiple accounts combined into one shareholdings should be directed to become aware that their shareholders have account, please write to Equiniti at the address Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, received unsolicited phone calls or given above.
Lamncing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, correspondence concerning investment Tel: 0871 384 2112, Text Tel: 0871 384 2255, matters which imply a connection to the quoting Ref No 874.
Callers from outside the company concerned.
These are typically from UK should telephone 44 121 415 7592. overseas based brokers who target UK Alternatively you can check your shareholding shareholders offering to sell them what often and find practical help on transferring your turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in shares or updating details at US or UK investments.
To register for this free service you will need your shareholder reference number shown on your dividend tax voucher or share certificate.
Results and dates for the 2008 final dividend Dates for the 2008 final dividend Results announced AGM 10 July 2008 Interim November Ex dividend date 16 July 2008 Final May Record date 18 July 2008 Annual Report issued June Payment date CREST accounts credited 12 August 2008 Annual General Meeting July DRIP Certificates recieved CREST accounts credited 18 August 2008 Dividends Interim paid December Final paid July August For historical dividend details please visit the Man Group website under Shareholder Information.
The Group offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP for shareholders wishing to buy shares with their cash dividend.
The final election date for joining or leaving the DRIP in relation to the 2008 final dividend is 3.00 pm on 18 July 2008.
Instructions received after this date will be applied to the next dividend.
Any queries on the DRIP should be addressed in the first instance to the dedicated Equiniti helpline on 0871 384 2268, including requests for copies of the DRIP terms and conditions and DRIP Mandate.
Alternatively, copies may be downloaded from the Man Group web site in the Dividends section of Shareholder Information.
134 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Shareholder & Company Information SHAREHOLDER AND COMPANY INFORMATION They can be very persistent and extremely Corporate Advisors persuasive and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has reported that the Auditors average amount lost by investors is around  LLP 20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that Hays Galleria has been duped in this way: many of the victims 1 Hays Lane had been successfully investing for several London SE1 2RD years.
Shareholders are advised to Telephone: 020 7853 5000 be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free Company Information reports on the company.
Registered Office If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Sugar Quay Make sure you get the correct name of the Lower Thames Street person and organisation and make a record London EC3R 6DU of any other information they give you, e. g. Telephone: 020 7144 1000 telephone number, address etc Fax: 020 7144 1923 Registered number: 2921462 Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved.
You can check at Registrar www.
Equiniti The FSA also maintains on its website a Aspect House list of unauthorised overseas firms who are Spencer Road targeting, or have targeted, UK investors Lancing and any approach from such organisations West Sussex BN99 6DA should be reported to the FSA so that this Telephone: 0871 384 2112 list can be kept up-to-date and any other appropriate action can be considered.
Calls to 0871 numbers are charged at 8p If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you per minute from a BT landline, other telephone would not be eligible to receive payment under providers costs may vary.
the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can, preferably, be contacted by completing an online form at Design and production www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml or, Design and production by The Smiths Partnership LLP.
if you do not have access to the internet, Creative ideas with kind permission of Emperor Design.
Printed by Royle Print, a carbon neutral printing company.
This report is printed on paper consisting of up to 50% recycled fibre.
They are not able to investigate such incidents The virgin paper is made from Elementally Chlorine Free ECF wood themselves but will record the details and pass pulp and is PEFC Certified with independent assurance that the paper them on to Man Group plc and liaise with the is sourced from well managed, sustainable forests.
Details of any sharedealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.
135 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
