FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 26.
Events after the balance sheet date a Disposal of subsidiary and acquisition of a joint venture On 31 March 2008, the Group announced that it had entered into an agreement to acquire a 50% interest in Ore Hill, a major US-based credit specialist fund manager.
Simultaneously Ore Hill has entered into an agreement to acquire a 50% interest in Pemba Credit Advisers, the European credit manager subsidiary of the Group.
The transaction completed on 8 May 2008.
The net consideration comprised $195 million in cash funded from the Groups existing resources together with $40 million in new ordinary shares of Man Group plc.
Ore Hill, established in 2002, is headquartered in New York and has approximately $3 billion funds under management.
Pemba, with operations in London and Switzerland has approximately $3.7 billion funds under management.
b Issue of perpetual subordinated capital securities On 7 May 2008, the Group issued $300 million 11% Perpetual Subordinated Capital Securities that are treated as an equity instrument.
They have no fixed redemption date, however, under certain circumstances defined in the terms and conditions of the issue, the Group may: i redeem these securities at their principal amount on 7 May 2013 and upon any coupon payment date thereafter.
ii exchange or vary the securities for fully paid non-cumulative preference shares in the Group or similar qualifying non-innovative tier-1 securities upon any coupon payment date following the issue.
The Group has the option to defer indefinitely coupon payments on the securities on any relevant payment date.
Prior to any exchange or variation, deferred coupons shall be satisfied by the issue and sale of ordinary shares.
After an exchange, deferred coupons may be cancelled.
No interest will accrue on any deferred coupon.
In the event of a coupon deferral the Company could not declare or pay a dividend on, or repurchase, its ordinary share capital.
Coupon payments are made quarterly in arrears on 7 August, 7 November, 7 February and 7 May in each year, commencing 7 August 2008.
Related party transactions The following transactions were carried out with related parties: a Transactions and balances with related entities During the year the following categories of related entity relationships occurred: Entity type Description of relationship Description of transactions Associates Investor and trading advisor Seeding and liquidity investments, loans to fund products, external re-financing guarantees, asset management performance, management and other fees, brokerage commissions, and interest and dividend income.
Sales purchases of services with related parties during the financial year, excluding key management compensation: 2008 2007 $m $m Asset Management: Performance fee income 480 121 Management and other fee income 668 446 Interest income 1 11 Brokerage commission expense 27 Dividend income 49 1,149 600 All transactions between related parties are carried out on an arms length basis.
Year-end balances arising from sales purchases of services with related parties during the financial year, excluding key management compensation: 2008 2007 $m $m Receivable from related entities 236 130 Payable to related entities 21 24 124 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
