Overview 02 29 Business review 32 77 Directors responsibility statement Governance 78 101 Financial statements 102 138 Other information 139 149 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report In accordance with International Accounting Standard 1 the and consolidated financial statements in accordance with Directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Gibraltar Companies Consolidated Accounts Act 1999, each financial year that present fairly the financial position of the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999, the Gibraltar the Group and the Company and the financial performance Companies Act 1930 as amended, International Financial and cashflows of the Group and the Company for that Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union period.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects IFRS and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, and the FSAs of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance Disclosure and Transparency Rules and Listing Rules.
with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Companys financial statements in accordance with the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999 and the Gibraltar In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be Companies Act 1930 as amended.
The Directors have also achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
chosen to prepare the Companys financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
In preparing the financial statements the Directors are required to: The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any Select suitable accounting policies and then apply time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding them consistently.
the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention Present information, including accounting policies, in and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and preparation of a Directors Report which complies with the understandable information.
Gibraltar Companies Consolidated Accounts Act 1999, the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999 and the Gibraltar Provide additional disclosure when compliance with the Companies Act 1930 as amended, and a Directors specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to Remuneration Report which complies with the requirements understand the impact of particular transactions, other of the UKs Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance.
Financial statements are published on the Groups website in accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom In accordance with DTR 4.1.
12 of the FSAs Disclosure and governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Transparency Rules, the Directors confirm to the best of statements, which may vary from legislation in other their knowledge: jurisdictions.
The maintenance and integrity of the Groups a the Groups financial statements have been prepared web site is the responsibility of the Directors.
The Directors in accordance with IFRS and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial financial statements contained therein.
position and profit and loss of the Group: and b the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the financial position of the Group and the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board of Directors Robert Hoskin Company Secretary 11 March 2009 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 | 101
