Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the A copy of the financial statements of the Company is Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report posted on the Cable and Wireless plc website www.
and the financial statements Group and Company The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the website.
Information published on the Companys UK company law requires the Directors to prepare website is accessible in many countries with different financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, legal requirements.
Legislation in the UK governing the the Directors have prepared the Group financial statements preparation and dissemination of financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and applicable law.
Further, they have elected to prepare Disclosure of information to auditors the Company financial statements in accordance with Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors UK accounting standards and applicable law UK GAAP.
are aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined The financial statements are required by law to give a true by Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985 of which and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position the Companys auditor is unaware, and the Directors have of the Group and the Company and of the Groups income taken all the steps they ought to have taken to make statement for that period.
themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are of that information.
required to: By order of the Board Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: Nick Cooper Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and prudent: 21 May 2008 For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and For the Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors confirm that the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, with regard to the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for the system of internal control for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
64 Financial statements Financial statements for the Group and Company including reports from the independent auditor.
Cable & Wireless Group 66 Independent auditors report 67 Consolidated financial statements 71 Notes to the financial statements Cable and Wireless plc 120 Independent auditors report 121 Company financial statements 123 Notes to the financial statements 65 Financial statements Company Group
