Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2008 1 General information Cable and Wireless plc the Company and its subsidiaries together Cable & Wireless or the Group is an international telecommunications company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
It operates through two standalone businesses International and Europe, Asia & US.
International operates integrated telecommunications companies in 39 countries offering mobile, broadband and domestic and international fixed line services to residential and business customers.
It has major operations in the Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and the Channel Islands.
Europe, Asia & US provides enterprise and carrier solutions to the largest users of telecoms services across the UK, US, continental Europe and Asia.
This business now incorporates the former C&W Access business which provided wholesale broadband and telephony services to commercial and residential end users through wholesale agreements.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC, as published by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
They are also in accordance with IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU.
These financial statements are presented in sterling and rounded to the nearest million.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments held at fair value.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
These estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are considered to be reasonable under the circumstances.
They form the basis of judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on a continuing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
Critical judgements and areas where the use of estimates is note 3. significant are discussed in The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group entities.
2.2 Application of recently issued International Financial Reporting Standards The Group has considered the following amendments to IFRSs in these financial statements.
New and amended Standards effective at 1 April 2007 adopted by the Group Title Description IFRS 7 The IFRS requires the disclosure of the significance of financial instruments for the Groups financial position Financial Instruments: Disclosure and performance.
It also requires qualitative and quantitative information about exposure to risks arising from financial instruments.
The standard did not have any impact on the classification or valuation of the Groups financial instruments.
IAS 1 The amended IFRS requires disclosures in relation to the Groups approach to managing its capital.
It did not Presentation of Financial Statements have an impact on the classifications or valuation of the Groups capital.
Capital Disclosures New Standard effective for the Group from 1 April 2009 not adopted early IFRS 8 The IFRS requires disclosures in respect of the operating segments of the Group.
This standard requires Operating Segments segmental disclosures presented on the basis upon which management views the Group.
It will not have a material impact on the Group.
71 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2008 New and amended Standards and Interpretations not yet adopted by the European Union and the Group IFRIC 12 The interpretation gives guidance on the accounting by operators for public-to-private service concession Service Concession Arrangements arrangements.
The Group is considering the implications of this interpretation.
IFRIC 13 The IFRIC clarifies that where goods or services are sold together with a customer loyalty incentive, the Customer Loyalty Programmes arrangement is a multiple-element arrangement and the consideration receivable from the customer should be allocated between the components of the arrangement in proportion to their fair values.
The Group does not expect this interpretation to have a material impact.
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 IFRIC 1 4 clarifies three issues: The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, how entities should determine the limit placed by IAS 1 9 Employee Benefits on the amount of a surplus Minimum Funding Requirements in a pension plan they can recognise as an asset: and their Interaction how a minimum funding requirement affects that limit: and when a minimum funding requirement creates an onerous obligation that should be recognised as a liability in addition to that otherwise recognised under IAS 1 9.
The impact of the interpretation is being considered by the Group.
Amendments to IAS 23 The amendments remove the option to expense interest on qualifying assets.
This amendment is Borrowing Costs consistent with current Group policy.
Amendments to IAS 1 The amendments affect the presentation of owner changes in equity and of comprehensive income.
They do Presentation of Financial Statements: not change the recognition, measurement or disclosure of specific transactions and events required by other A Revised Presentation standards.
Revised IFRS 3 The main changes in the revised IFRS 3 include the separate accounting of acquisition related costs, changes Business Combinations to business combinations achieved in stages and changes to the accounting for business combinations where less than 1 00% of the equity is acquired.
These changes will be effective for businesses purchased by the Group after 31 March 2009.
As such, no assessment can be determined of their impact.
Revised IAS 27 The revisions to IAS 27 specify that changes in a parents ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result Consolidated and Separate in the loss of control must be accounted for as equity transactions.
This amendment is consistent with Financial Statements current Group policy.
Amendments to IFRS 2 The amendment clarifies that vesting conditions are service conditions and performance conditions only.
Share-based Payment: Vesting also specifies that all cancellations, whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the same Conditions and Cancellations accounting treatment, which results in the acceleration of the charge.
The Group is considering the implications of the amendment.
Amendments to IFRS 32 and IAS 1 The amendments require some puttable financial instruments that impose on the entity an obligation to Puttable Financial Instruments and deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of the entity only on liquidation to be classified as Obligations Arising on Liquidation equity.
The amendments do not affect the Group.
2.3 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries and include the Groups share of the results and net assets of its joint ventures and associates.
The accounts of the Groups main trading subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates have been prepared to align with the Groups reporting date.
a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, the existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are considered.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group effectively takes control until the date that control ceases.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are aligned with the policies adopted by the Group to ensure consistency.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued at the date of exchange plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
b Joint ventures and associates Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
Joint ventures are entities over which the Group exercises joint control.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control over the financial and operating policies.
This generally accompanies a shareholding of between 20% and 50%.
The Groups investment in joint ventures and associates includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
Accounting policies of joint ventures and associates have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement.
Its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
72 When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture or associate exceeds its interest or participation including any other unsecured long-term receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the investee.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest or participation.
2.4 Segmental reporting The Group discloses its primary segment reporting by business segment.
The Directors consider that this is the most appropriate distinction between the source and nature of risks and returns associated with its activities.
A business segment is defined as a component of the Group engaged in providing services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
Revenues and expenses are allocated to business segments based on the type of service to which they relate.
Assets, liabilities and capital expenditure are allocated to particular business segments if they substantially relate to a single identifiable segment.
Assets and capital expenditure that relate to a range of services falling under different business segments are reported as unallocated.
The Group discloses its secondary segment reporting by geographical segment.
A geographical segment is defined as a component of the Group engaged in providing services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
Revenues are allocated to geographical segments based on the location where the telecommunication services are delivered.
Assets, liabilities and capital expenditure are allocated to geographical segments based on their location.
2.5 Foreign currency translation a Functional currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
b Foreign currency translation Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
c Foreign operations The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the Groups presentation currency are translated into sterling as follows: i assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date: ii income and expenses are translated at rates closely approximating the rate at the date of the transactions: and iii resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to shareholders equity.
Since 1 April 2004, the Groups date of transition to IFRS, exchange differences have been recognised in a foreign currency translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
On disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange differences are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
There are no Group entities operating in a hyperinflationary economy.
2.6 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
The cost of property, plant and equipment includes labour and overhead costs arising directly from the construction or acquisition of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated costs of dismantling and removing the asset and restoring the site on which it is located are included in the cost of property, plant and equipment.
The corresponding obligation is recognised as a provision in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other subsequent costs primarily repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Interest costs of borrowings made to finance separately identifiable major capital projects incurred up to the time that those projects are ready for service are capitalised as part of the cost of assets when it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits to the entity and the costs can be measured reliably.
73 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2008 Depreciation is not recognised on freehold land or assets under construction.
On other property, plant and equipment, depreciation is recognised on the difference between the cost of an item and its estimated residual value, on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: Lives Cables up to 20 years Network equipment 3 to 25 years Ducting 40 years Freehold buildings 40 years Leasehold buildings up to 40 years or term of lease if less Asset residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date.
An assets carrying amount is written down to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount is greater than its recoverable amount through sale or use.
Gains and losses on the sale of property, plant and equipment are determined by reference to the proceeds and net book values.
These gains and losses are recognised in the income statement.
Engineering spares held for use by the Group over a period exceeding one year are included in assets under construction.
They are stated at cost and include an appropriate allocation of labour and overheads.
The cost is determined on a weighted average basis.
Provision is made for deterioration and obsolescence.
2.7 Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, joint venture or associate.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures and associates is included in those investments.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
b Other intangible assets Costs that are directly associated with the purchase and implementation of identifiable and unique software products by the Group are recognised as intangible assets.
Expenditures that enhance and extend the benefits of computer software programs beyond their original specifications and lives are recognised as a capital improvement and added to the original cost of the software.
Intangible assets relating to licences and customer contracts have been obtained as part of the Groups business combinations.
They are recorded initially at their fair values.
Expenditure is only capitalised if costs can be measured reliably, the product is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development and to use the asset.
Other intangible assets are amortised over their respective lives.
The useful lives of licences including concessions to provide telecommunication services are determined based on the terms of the agreements including renewal periods if there is evidence to support renewal by the Group without significant cost.
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less amortisation on a straight-line basis over the following periods: Lives Licences 25 years or less if the licence term is shorter Software 3 to 5 years Customer contracts 4 to 15 years Other 3 to 5 years 2.8 Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the assets are held.
The basis of determining fair values is set out in note 2.9.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial assets other than those held at fair value through the income statement.
74 Financial assets at fair value through the income statement This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading and those designated at fair value through the income statement at inception.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term or if so designated by management.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets if they are either held for trading or are expected to be realised within a year of the balance sheet date.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the reporting date.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on trade-date the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement are recognised and subsequently carried at fair value.
Available-for-sale financial assets are recognised and subsequently carried at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Financial assets not carried at fair value through the income statement are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Gains and losses both realised and unrealised arising from changes in the value of financial assets held at fair value through the income statement are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale are recognised in equity.
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement as gains and losses from investment securities.
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised on these instruments are not reversed through the income statement if the fair value of the instrument increases in a later period.
Derivative financial instruments Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
The Group does not designate derivatives as hedge instruments.
All gains and losses on derivative instruments are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Receivables Receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a third party with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than one year after the balance sheet date these are classified as non-current assets.
Receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is determined using the effective interest method less an allowance for impairment.
An allowance for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the allowance is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate.
The allowance is initially recognised in the income statement.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Convertible bonds issued by the Group were initially recognised at fair value.
The bond was separated into liability and equity components.
The liability component was recognised at amortised cost.
The equity component represents the residual of the fair value of the bond less the liability.
The liability portion was subsequently measured on an amortised cost basis until it was extinguished.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting date.
75 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2008 2.9 Fair value estimation for financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as publicly traded derivatives or trading and available-for-sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for traded financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price.
The appropriate quoted market price for traded financial liabilities is the current offer price.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the reporting date.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group uses a variety of methods which include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models which reflect the specific instrument.
The nominal value less estimated impairments of receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities measured at amortised cost for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
Discounted cash flows are used to determine the fair value for the majority of remaining financial instruments.
2.10 Impairment of assets excluding financial instruments Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
All other non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Impairment reviews involve management making assumptions and estimates, which are highly judgmental and susceptible to change.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash generating units.
The expected cash flows generated by the assets are discounted using asset specific discount rates that reflect the risks associated with the groups of assets.
These risks vary with the nature and the location of the cash generating units.
2.11 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is based on the first-in, first-out FIFO principle.
For inventories held for resale, net realisable value is determined as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less selling expenses.
For materials and consumables, provision is made for obsolete and slow moving inventories as required.
The cost of inventory held for resale comprises acquisition costs and associated expenses determined on a weighted average basis.
2.12 Cash and cash equivalents Cash equivalents are highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at cost.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and at bank, short-term deposits and marketable securities.
Bank overdrafts are included within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
2.13 Share capital Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or standalone options are recognised in equity as a deduction from the issue proceeds.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options for the acquisition of a business are included in the cost of acquisition.
2.14 Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset or the present value of minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in other long-term payables.
These payments are split between capital and interest elements using the annuity method.
The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases comprising a lease of land and a lease of buildings within a single contract are split into the two component parts.
Each component part is then tested to determine whether the lease is a finance or operating lease and treated accordingly.
All other leases are classified as operating leases and are not recognised in the balance sheet.
Payments made under operating leases, net of lease incentives or premiums received, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
76 2.15 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale When the value of non-current assets is expected to be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing usage, they are classified as non-current assets held for sale.
With the exception of deferred tax assets, assets arising from employee benefits and financial instruments, these assets are classified as current and are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Disposal groups are groups of assets and liabilities to be disposed of together as a group in a single transaction.
They are recognised as held for sale at the reporting date and are separately disclosed as current assets and liabilities on the balance sheet.
Measurement differences arising between the carrying amount and fair value less cost of disposal are treated as impairment charges but separately disclosed.
2.16 Employee benefits Defined contribution pensions A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Defined benefit obligations A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
These schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of each defined benefit pension plan represents the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the reporting date.
Assets are recognised as the present value of the economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Defined benefit obligations for each scheme are calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of these obligations are determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid.
The bonds used will have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses, arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions, in the period in which they occur in the statement of recognised income and expenses.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In these cases, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Current service costs and any past service costs, together with the unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities less the expected return on plan assets, are included within operating costs.
When defined benefit funds have an IAS 19 surplus, they are recorded at the lower of that surplus and the future economic benefits available in the form of a cash refund or a reduction in future contributions.
Any adjustment to the surplus is recorded directly in equity.
Other post-employment obligations Some Group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to their retirees.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension plans.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are dealt with in the same way as for defined benefit pension schemes.
Independent qualified actuaries value these obligations annually.
Current service costs are charged to the income statement.
Share-based compensation The Group operates various equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense over the vesting period.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, which excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, service, profitability and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in estimates about the number of options that are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original non-market estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the options are exercised.
Where continuing employees withdraw from share-based compensation plans the remaining charge is recognised immediately.
77 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2008 2.16 Employee benefits continued Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to the action leading to the employees termination.
Termination benefits falling due more than a year after balance sheet date are discounted to present value.
Bonus plans The Group recognises a liability where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
Cash Long Term Incentive Plan The Group operates a Cash Long Term Incentive Plan.
The plan rewards Executive Directors responsible for, and certain senior employees in, International and Europe, Asia & US.
The plan is accounted for as an other long term employee benefit in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The amount recognised as a liability represents the estimated present value of the obligation at the balance sheet date.
2.17 Tax Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements, except where the difference arises from: the initial recognition of goodwill: or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination, affecting neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the temporary differences reverse, based on rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates and interests in joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
2.18 Provisions Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount.
They are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are presented in the balance sheet at the present value of the estimated future outflows expected to be required to settle the obligation.
The discount rate is the pre-tax rate reflecting the assessment of the settlement date.
Provision charges and reversals are recognised in the income statement.
Discount unwinding is recognised as a finance expense.
Provisions are recognised for unavoidable lease payments in onerous contracts as the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant properties being sub-let.
Redundancy provisions, relating to both continuing and discontinued operations, comprise employee termination payments.
Legal provisions comprise legal fees and expected settlement costs.
2.19 Puttable instruments Puttable instruments on minority interests issued as part of a business combination are accounted for by the acquirer as a financial liability.
The liability is based on the present value of the redemption amount as if the puttable instrument had been exercised at the balance sheet date.
Movements in the value of the liability together with dividends paid to minority interests are recognised as adjustments to goodwill with the unwind of the discount on the fair value calculation being recognised in the income statement.
78 2.20 Revenue recognition Group revenue, which excludes discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of services provided to customers.
It includes sales to joint ventures and associated companies but does not include sales by joint ventures and associated companies or sales between Group companies.
Revenue is recognised only when payment is probable.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are provided.
Revenue from service contracts that cover periods of greater than 12 months is recognised in the income statement in proportion to the services delivered at the reporting date.
In respect of services invoiced in advance, amounts are deferred until provision of the service.
Amounts payable by and to other telecommunications operators are recognised as the services are provided.
Charges are negotiated separately and are subject to continual review.
Revenue generated through the provision of these services is accounted for gross of any amounts payable to other telecommunications operators for interconnect fees.
Mobile revenue comprises amounts charged to customers in respect of monthly access charges, airtime usage, messaging, and the provision of other mobile telecommunications services.
This includes data services and information provision and revenue from the sale of equipment including handsets.
Mobile monthly access charges are invoiced and recorded as part of a periodic billing cycle.
Airtime, either from contract customers as part of the invoiced amount or from prepaid customers through the sale of prepaid cards, is recorded in the period in which the customer uses the service.
Unbilled revenue resulting from mobile services provided to contract customers from the billing cycle date to the end of each period is accrued.
Unearned monthly access charges relating to periods after each accounting period are deferred.
The Group earns revenue from the transmission of content and traffic on its network originated by third party providers.
The Group assesses whether revenue should be recorded gross as principal or net as agent, based on the features of such arrangements including the following indicators: whether the Group holds itself out as an agent: establishment of the price: provision of customer remedies: performance of part of the service: and assumption of credit risk.
Revenue from sales of telecommunication equipment is recognised upon delivery to the customer.
The total consideration on arrangements with multiple revenue generating activities generally the sale of telecom equipment and ongoing service is allocated to those components that are capable of operating independently based on the estimated fair value of the components.
Revenue arising from the provision of other services, including maintenance contracts, is recognised evenly over the periods in which the service is provided.
2.21 Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Dividend income is included within finance income.
2.22 Interest income Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
2.23 Exceptional items Exceptional items are material items which derive from individual events that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group that are identified as exceptional items by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements In the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, a number of estimates and assumptions have been made relating to the reporting of results of operations and the financial condition of the Group.
Results may differ significantly from those estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
The Directors consider that the following discussion addresses the Groups most critical accounting policies, which are those that are most important to the presentation of its consolidated financial condition and results.
These particular policies require subjective and complex judgements, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are uncertain.
3.1 Valuation of assets for purchase accounting Where the Group undertakes business combinations, the cost of acquisition is allocated to tangible and other identifiable intangible assets and liabilities acquired and assumed by reference to their estimated fair values at the time of acquisition.
The remaining amount is recorded as goodwill.
Any value assigned to the identifiable assets is determined by reference to an active market, independent appraisal or estimate by management based on cash flow projections.
The latter situation includes estimates and judgements regarding expectations for the economic useful lives of the products and technology acquired.
In this situation, where appropriate, third party valuation specialists are involved.
79 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2008 3.2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment The Group assigns useful lives and residual values to property, plant and equipment based on periodic studies of actual asset lives and the intended use for those assets.
Changes in circumstances such as technological advances, prospective economic utilisation and physical condition of the assets concerned could result in the actual useful lives or residual values differing from initial estimates.
Where the Group determines that the useful life of property, plant and equipment should be shortened or residual value reduced, it depreciates the net book value in excess of the residual value over the revised remaining useful life, thereby increasing depreciation expense.
Any change in an assets life or residual value is reflected in the Groups financial statements when the change in estimate is determined.
3.3 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets The Directors assess the impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or otherwise as required by accounting standards.
Factors that are considered important and which could trigger an impairment review include the following: obsolescence or physical damage: significant changes in technology and regulatory environments: significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results: significant changes in the use of its assets or the strategy for its overall business: significant negative industry or economic trends: and significant decline in its stock price for a sustained period and its market capitalisation relative to net book value.
In addition, the Directors test goodwill, which is not amortised, at least annually for impairment.
The identification of impairment indicators, the estimation of future cash flows and the determination of the recoverable amount for assets or cash generating units requires significant judgement concerning the identification and validation of impairment indicators, the timing and amount of expected cash flows and applicable discount rates.
The Group determines any impairment by comparing the carrying values of each of the Groups cash generating units to their recoverable amounts which is the higher of net realisable value and the value in use.
Net realisable value represents market value in an active market less cost to sell.
Value in use is determined by discounting future cash flows arising from the asset or the cash generating unit to which it refers.
Future cash flows are determined with reference to the Groups own projections using discount rates which represent the estimated weighted average cost of capital for the respective businesses.
The approach, assumptions and results of the impairment test are set out in note 17.
3.4 Revenue recognition Revenue, which excludes discounts, value added tax or other sales taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of services provided to customers and is accounted for on the accruals basis to match revenue with the provision of service.
Revenue is recognised monthly as services are provided.
Revenue in respect of services invoiced in advance is deferred and recognised on provision of the service.
Revenue in respect of unbilled services is accrued.
Judgement is required in assessing the application of these principles and the specific guidance in respect of Group revenues, including the presentation of revenue as principal or as agent in respect of income received from transmission of content provided by third parties.
3.5 Impairment of receivables The allowance for impairment of trade receivables reflects the Groups estimates of losses arising from the failure or inability of the Groups customers to make required payments.
The allowance is based on the ageing of customer accounts, customer credit worthiness and the Groups historical write-off experience.
Changes to the allowance may be required if the financial condition of its customers improves or deteriorates.
An improvement in financial condition may result in lower actual write-offs.
Historically, changes to the estimate of losses have not been material to the Groups financial position and results.
3.6 Customer and supplier commitments The nature of the telecommunications industry is such that estimates are often required to be made in relation to customer or supplier commitments, the final outcome of which may not be known for some time.
It uses estimates of price or usage to determine the revenue and expense recognised in any period.
These estimates are periodically adjusted to reflect actual pricing or usage as such information becomes available or is agreed.
As issues arise or are resolved, accruals are created or released as appropriate the net impact of this is included in operating profit within the relevant line item.
3.7 Interconnection with other operators As part of the normal course of business, the Group interconnects with other telecommunications operators.
In certain instances it uses estimates to determine the amount of revenue receivable from or expense payable to these other operators.
The prices at which these services are charged are sometimes regulated and may be subject to retrospective adjustment.
Estimates are used in assessing the likely impact of these adjustments.
Adjustments to interconnect estimates are taken to operating profit in the period in which the adjustments are made.
80 3.8 Taxation The tax charge is the sum of the total current and deferred tax charges or credits.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items where the tax treatment cannot be finally determined until a resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, if necessary, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some of these items may give rise to material income statement and or cash flow variances.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of Cable & Wireless and is often dependent on the efficiency of the administrative and legal processes in the relevant tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items.
As a result there can be substantial differences between the tax charge in the income statement and tax payments.
3.9 Recognition of deferred tax assets The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is probable that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available in the future, against which the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted.
Recognition therefore involves judgement regarding the future financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised.
3.10 Provisions A provision is recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation in respect of a past event as explained in the accounting policy in note 2.18.
Judgement is required to quantify such amounts.
3.11 Pensions The Group provides several defined benefit pension schemes for its employees.
The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans represents the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the reporting date.
The expected cost of providing these defined benefit pensions will depend on an assessment of such factors as: the life expectancy of the members: the length of service: the rate of salary progression: the rate of return earned on assets in the future: the rate used to discount future pension liabilities: and future inflation rates.
The assumptions used by Cable & Wireless are set out in note 32 and are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which may not necessarily be borne out in practice but are comparable to the median estimates in this regard used by other FTSE 100 companies.
Changes to these assumptions could materially affect the size of the defined benefit schemes liabilities and assets disclosed in note 32.
3.12 Fair value estimation The basis of determining fair values is set out in note 2.9.
Where market values are not available, fair values are based on valuation methodologies which require inputs and forecasts to be made.
Judgement is required in determining the appropriate assumptions underlying those inputs and forecasts.
The Group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term debt.
Other techniques, such as estimated discounted cash flows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
3.13 Cash Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The charge calculated in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits requires estimates of the valuation of International and Europe, Asia & US to determine the obligation for the LTIP.
The estimates require the use of a number of assumptions which, by their nature, are subjective.
81 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2008 4 Segment information Primary reporting format business segments Cable & Wireless is an international telecommunications service provider.
During the year Cable & Wireless operated two primary business segments International and Europe, Asia & US.
The International business operates integrated telecommunications companies in 39 countries offering mobile, broadband, domestic and international fixed line services to residential and business customers.
It has principal operations in the Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and the Channel Islands.
The Europe, Asia & US business provides enterprise and carrier solutions to the largest users of telecoms services across the UK, US, continental Europe and Asia.
C&W Access was presented as a separate segment in the prior year.
It is now included in the Europe, Asia & US segment and the comparatives have been adjusted to show the effect of this.
Continuing operations The segment results for the years ended 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2007 are presented below: 1 Europe, Other and International Asia & US eliminations Total 2007 08 m m m m Continuing operations Revenue 1,229 1,941 18 3,152 Pre-exceptional operating costs 963 1,896 9 2,868 Exceptional operating costs income 50 13 37 Group operating profit loss 216 58 27 247 Share of post-tax profit loss of joint ventures 38 1 37 Total operating profit loss 254 57 27 284 Other income 15 Net finance expense 32 Profit before income tax 267 Tax 47 Profit for the year from continuing operations 220 2006 07 Continuing operations Revenue 1,228 2,139 19 3,348 Pre-exceptional operating costs 951 2,192 2 3,145 Exceptional operating costs 89 89 Group operating profit loss 277 142 21 114 Share of post-tax loss of joint ventures and associates 8 3 11 Total operating profit loss 269 145 21 103 Other income 174 Net finance expense 28 Profit before income tax 249 Tax 43 Profit for the year from continuing operations 206 1 Other includes Central expenses.
Inter-segment sales are not significant and are charged at arms length prices.
82 4 Segment information continued The segment assets and liabilities, capital expenditure and other items as at and for the year ended 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2007 are: 1 Europe, Other and International Asia & US eliminations Total 2007 08 m m m m Continuing operations Segment assets 1,537 1,859 621 4,017 Joint ventures 150 8 142 Total assets 1,687 1,851 621 4,159 Total liabilities 686 1,053 541 2,280 Capital expenditure 190 221 411 Acquisitions 12 9 21 Depreciation and amortisation 142 157 299 Impairment 37 37 Increase decrease in provisions 48 9 32 7 2006 07 Continuing operations Segment assets 1,578 1,840 956 4,374 Joint ventures 129 12 117 Total assets 1,707 1,828 956 4,491 Total liabilities 717 1,074 810 2,601 Capital expenditure 168 235 403 Acquisitions 15 15 Depreciation and amortisation 145 128 273 Assets written off 13 13 Decrease increase in provisions 3 76 1 78 1 Other includes Central and non-operating assets and liabilities.
Goodwill of 431 million 2006 07 421 million relating to the acquisition of Energis is included in the Europe, Asia & US segment.
Goodwill of 108 million 2006 07 102 million relating to the acquisition of Monaco Telecom and 10 million 2006 07 nil relating to Connecteo, is included in the International segment.
Other and eliminations includes assets and liabilities held centrally by the Group, primarily cash and borrowings, and other non-operating items including tax balances.
Discontinued operations Discontinued operations represent those businesses which have been disposed of or are classified as held for sale at the year end.
There were no operations held for sale at 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2007.
Details of the results of operations disposed of in prior periods are set out in note 14.
The segment results of the discontinued operations for the year ended 31 March 2008 are nil.
The releases of unutilised provisions resulting in a profit of 28 million in 2006 07 related primarily to the Groups exit from its former US operations in a prior financial year.
This profit is included in the Other and eliminations segment.
83 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2008 4 Segment information continued Secondary reporting format geographical segments Cable & Wireless is an international telecommunications company with continuing operations in six geographical segments: Europe, Asia & US including the UK, Europe, US and Asia, Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and Rest of the World ROW.
The segment results for the year ended 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2007 are presented below: 1 Europe, Other and Caribbean Panama Macau Monaco ROW Asia & US eliminations Total 2007 08 m m m m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue 510 308 145 145 121 1,941 18 3,152 Operating costs 421 218 100 129 95 1,896 9 2,868 Exceptional operating costs income 44 2 4 13 37 Group operating profit loss 45 90 45 14 22 58 27 247 Share of post-tax profit loss of joint ventures 21 2 15 1 37 Total operating profit loss 66 90 45 16 37 57 27 284 Other income 15 Net finance expense 32 Profit before income tax 267 Tax 47 Profit for the year from continuing operations 220 1 Europe, Other and Caribbean Panama Macau Monaco ROW Asia & US eliminations Total 2006 07 m m m m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue 554 289 143 136 106 2,139 19 3,348 Operating costs 428 211 102 116 94 2,192 2 3,145 Exceptional operating costs income 1 1 89 89 Group operating profit loss 126 77 41 20 13 142 21 114 Share of post-tax loss profit of joint ventures and associates 41 2 31 3 11 Total operating profit loss 85 77 41 22 44 145 21 103 Other income 174 Net finance expense 28 Profit before income tax 249 Tax 43 Profit for the year from continuing operations 206 1 Other includes Central and non-operating assets.
84 4 Segment information continued The segment assets and liabilities, capital expenditure and other items as at and for the year ended 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2007 are: 1 Europe, Other and Caribbean Panama Macau Monaco ROW Asia & US eliminations Total 2007 08 m m m m m m m m Continuing operations Segment assets 652 314 103 313 155 1,859 621 4,017 Joint ventures 93 10 47 8 142 Total assets 745 314 103 323 202 1,851 621 4,159 Total liabilities 205 141 34 211 95 1,053 541 2,280 Capital expenditure 88 52 18 4 28 221 411 Acquisitions 12 9 21 Depreciation and amortisation 59 37 17 14 15 157 299 Impairment 37 37 Increase decrease in provisions 9 1 1 37 9 32 7 2006 07 Continuing operations Segment assets 697 317 104 283 177 1,840 956 4,374 Joint ventures and associates 73 5 51 12 117 Total assets 770 317 104 288 228 1,828 956 4,491 Total liabilities 267 143 36 195 76 1,074 810 2,601 Capital expenditure 77 31 19 10 31 235 403 Acquisitions 15 15 Depreciation and amortisation 61 38 15 14 17 128 273 Assets written off 13 13 Decrease increase in provisions 2 11 12 76 1 78 1 Other includes Central and non-operating assets.
Revenue is based on the location where the telecommunication services were delivered.
It does not follow necessarily that the international telecommunication traffic transiting the Groups networks originates in that location.
The Group does not have access to information on the original source or ultimate destination of all international telecommunication traffic.
Goodwill of 431 million 2006 07 421 million relating to Energis is included in the Europe, Asia & US segment.
Goodwill of 108 million 2006 07 102 million relating to Monaco Telecom is included in the Monaco segment.
Goodwill of 10 million 2006 07 nil relating to Connecteo is included in the Rest of the World segment.
Discontinued operations There was no revenue or segment assets for discontinued operations as at and for the years ended 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2007.
5 Revenue 2007 08 2006 07 m m Continuing operations Sales of telecommunication services and related operations 3,095 3,266 Sales of telecom equipment and accessories 57 82 Total revenue 3,152 3,348 There was no revenue from discontinued operations during the current and prior years.
85 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2008 6 Operating costs The split of the operating costs incurred by the Group, in accordance with the nature of cost, is presented below: 2007 08 2006 07 PrePreexceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional Total m m m m m m Outpayments and direct costs 1,541 1,541 1,730 1,730 Employee and other staff expenses 480 44 524 536 41 577 Operating lease rentals networks 23 23 51 51 property 65 65 46 46 plant and equipment 1 1 1 1 Other administrative expenses 189 1 190 195 195 Network costs 201 2 203 242 242 Property and utility costs 74 6 80 82 37 119 Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 2,574 53 2,627 2,883 78 2,961 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 47 47 39 11 50 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 252 37 289 234 2 236 Operating costs 2,873 90 2,963 3,156 91 3,247 Operating costs are stated net of credits or charges arising from the release or establishment of accruals.
2007 08 2006 07 Note m m Exceptional items within operating costs Staff costs i 44 41 Property costs ii 6 37 Other costs iii 6 Legal costs iv 11 Gain on Seychelles cash repatriation v 14 Impairment assets written off vi 37 13 Total exceptional operating costs 90 91 i Staff costs principally relate to redundancy costs arising from the restructuring of the Groups operations in continuing businesses.
In 2007 08 the expenses relate to International 14 million and Europe, Asia & US 30 million net of a 1 million provision release see note 31 and a redundancy related pension curtailment credit of 2 million.
In 2006 07, the expenses related to International 13 million net of a 2 million provision release see note 31 and Europe, Asia & US 28 million net of a redundancy related pension curtailment credit of 6 million.
ii Property costs include provisions relating to vacant property in Europe, Asia & US and is net of 4 million of provision releases see note 31.
In 2006 07 property costs of 37 million in Europe, Asia & US were net of 16 million of provision releases see note 31. iii Other costs relate to the provision for onerous network costs, and other restructuring costs in International 2 million and Europe, Asia & US 4 million.
iv In July 2007, the Group received a legal claim from Digicel, a competitor in the Caribbean.
Exceptional legal costs relate to the legal and other fees for the Groups defence against the claim.
v The Group concluded a transaction with the Seychelles government to repatriate 24 million of funds that had previously been blocked due to exchange controls.
The gain arising on the release of provisions held against these funds was 14 million.
As a consequence of this transaction, there was a 5 million tax charge on the exceptional amount.
vi An impairment review was conducted by C&W Jamaica, which resulted in an impairment of mobile network assets by 37 million.
In 2006 07, redundant IT assets of 13 million 11 million software, 2 million fixed assets were written off following the change in C&W Access strategy from a consumer to a wholesale business.
86 6 Operating costs continued Auditors remuneration The remuneration of the auditor and its associates for services provided to the Group during the year was 4.8 million including 0.3 million relating to the prior year 2006 07 4.7 million including 0.5 million relating to 2005 06.
2007 08 2006 07 m m Audit services Statutory audit services in respect of the Groups accounts 1.9 1.9 Audit services in respect of prior years in respect of Group accounts 0.2 0.2 Audit of the Groups annual accounts 2.1 2.1 Amounts receivable by auditors and their associates: Statutory audit services in respect of other statutory accounts 1.1 0.9 Audit services of prior years in respect of other statutory accounts 0.1 0.3 Audit-related regulatory reporting 0.4 0.4 3.7 3.7 Tax services compliance 0.4 0.6 Tax services advisory 0.1 0.1 Other services 0.6 0.3 4.8 4.7 Fees paid to KPMG for audit and other services to the Company are not disclosed in its individual accounts as the Group accounts are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
7 Other operating income Other operating income relates to gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment of 5 million and cash received in respect of hurricane insurance claims of 4 million.
Exceptional other operating income relates to the sale and leaseback of nine freehold properties in the Europe, Asia & US business in April 2007.
The disposal of these properties for 88 million resulted in a profit of 53 million.
In 2006 07 other operating income primarily related to gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
Exceptional other operating income included cash received in respect of hurricane insurance claims of 8 million and the reversal of 5 million unused provisions relating to natural disaster costs recognised in a prior year.
8 Other operating expenses The other operating expense of 4 million relates to 2 million of losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment and 2 million of costs relating to hurricane damage.
In 2006 07, other operating expenses included 2 million relating to losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
Exceptional other operating expenses in 2006 07 related to the net loss on disposal of the retail customer base of C&W Access to Pipex.
Proceeds of 9 million were offset by a write-off of 20 million relating to goodwill.
87 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2008 9 Employee and other staff expenses Costs of employees and contract staff of the Group The pre-exceptional employee and other staff expenses are set out below: 2007 08 2006 07 m m Wages and salaries 437 455 Social security costs 32 39 Share-based payments 16 25 Cash Long Term Incentive Plan 27 27 Pension credit expense defined benefit plans 21 11 defined contribution plans 15 13 Temporary labour and recruitment 22 31 528 579 Less: Staff costs capitalised 48 43 Staff costs 480 536 Exceptional employee and other staff expenses of 44 million 2006 07 41 million are set out in note 6.
Average number of employees The average monthly number of persons, including Executive Directors employed by the Group in continuing operations during the year was: 2007 08 2006 07 International International headquarters 151 145 Caribbean 3,964 3,697 Panama 1,885 1,846 Macau 919 944 Monaco 502 487 Rest of the World 685 773 Total International 8,106 7,892 Europe, Asia & US 5,318 5,876 Other 86 83 Total Group 13,510 13,851 There were no employees in discontinued operations.
Key managements remuneration Key management includes Directors and any senior staff that have regular access to inside information and have the power to make managerial decisions affecting the future development and business prospects of Cable & Wireless.
Included in staff costs are key management expenses, including 10 million 2006 07 8 million aggregate Directors emoluments, as follows: 2007 08 2006 07 m m Salaries and short-term employment benefits 9 9 Termination and relocation benefits 3 1 Share-based payments 7 5 Cash Long Term Incentive Plan 15 16 34 31 Directors remuneration is disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 54 to 63.
88 10 Gains and losses on the sale of non-current assets 2007 08 2006 07 PrePreexceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional Total m m m m m m Gains and losses on the sale of non-current assets 1 1 153 153 Gains and losses on the sale of non-current assets arise on the sale of businesses that do not meet the definition of discontinued operations or investments.
In 2007 08 the gain on disposals of non-current assets of 1 million reflects the release of a provision related to the sale of the Groups interest in Bahrain Telecommunications Company BSC Batelco.
In 2006 07, exceptional gains on disposals of non-current assets of 153 million reflects the gain on the sale of the Group's interest in Batelco.
The net cash proceeds received were 256 million.
The tax charge attributable and minority interest share were both nil.
11 Gain on termination of operations 2007 08 2006 07 PrePreexceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional Total m m m m m m Gain on termination of operations 86 14 31821 The pre-exceptional gain of 8 million 2006 07 3 million represents the results of the activities of the Groups former insurance operation, Pender Insurance Limited Pender, which ceased taking on new business in April 2003.
The exceptional gain of 6 million 2006 07 18 million arose from the resolution of claims and other matters in respect of Pender.
12 Finance income and expense 2007 08 2006 07 PrePreexceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional Total m m m m m m Finance income Interest on cash and deposits 52 52 51 51 Investment income 1 1 1 1 Total finance income 53 53 52 52 Finance expense Loss on convertible bonds repurchase 1010 Interest on bank loans 13 13 2 2 Interest on other loans 46 46 61 61 Finance charges on leases 2 2 3 3 Unwinding of discounts on provisions 8 8 6 6 Unwinding of discount on Monaco put option liability 8 8 10 10 77 10 87 82 82 Less: Interest capitalised 2 2 2 2 Total finance expense 75 10 85 80 80 Tax relief of 1 million is available on interest capitalised in the year ended 31 March 2008 2006 07 1 million.
Interest has been capitalised within property, plant and equipment at a rate of 7% 2006 07 7%.
During the period, convertible bonds with a par value of 138 million were repurchased for cash of 190 million.
This resulted in an exceptional accounting loss of 10 million being the difference between the carrying and fair value of the underlying debt component of the repurchased bonds.
For further information, refer to note 27.
89 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2008 13 Income tax expense 2007 08 2006 07 m m Current tax charge UK tax at 30% 63 39 Double tax relief 63 39 Overseas tax 63 52 Adjustments relating to prior years 1 6 Total current tax charge 62 46 Deferred tax credit charge Origination and reversal of temporary differences 13 9 Effect of change in tax rates 1 13 10 Adjustments relating to prior years 2 13 Total deferred tax credit 15 3 Total tax charge 47 43 There was no tax charge relating to discontinued operations 2006 07 nil.
The 47 million 2006 07 43 million tax charge is net of a 14 million 2006 07 1 million credit in respect of the exceptional operating costs included in note 6 and includes a 5 million 2007 nil charge for Seychelles withholding tax on dividends remitted.
The Groups effective tax rate differs from the UK statutory tax rate as follows: 2007 08 2006 07 % % UK statutory tax rate 30.0 30.0 Effect of overseas tax rates 5.7 3.3 Effect of accounting for associates 3.3 1.5 Effect of branches and intra-group dividends less double tax relief 7.8 14.8 Net effect of disallowed expenditure income not taxable 3.7 20.3 Effect of other temporary differences 11.6 Effect of changes in unrecognised deferred tax assets 6.7 12.3 Adjustments relating to prior years 0.8 6.5 Effective tax rate 17.6 15.5 14 Discontinued operations There were no businesses discontinued during the year 2006 07 none.
In 2007 08, the net profit of nil from discontinued operations includes the reversal of unutilised provisions of 5 million see note 31 relating to the Groups former US operations and businesses disposed of in prior periods and the write-off of a 5 million receivable relating to the Groups former US operations.
In 2006 07 the profit from discontinued operations in prior periods of 28 million comprised the reversal of unutilised provisions relating to the US operations discontinued in a prior financial year.
90 15 Earnings per share Basic earnings per ordinary share is based on the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding.
2007 08 2006 07 m m Profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary shareholders 164 174 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding millions 2,424 2,324 Dilutive effect of share options 42 36 Number of ordinary shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share 2,466 2,360 Basic earnings per share pence per share 6.8p 7.5p Diluted earnings per share pence per share 6.6p 7.4p Continuing operations Profit and adjusted profit from continuing operations for the financial year attributable to shareholders 164 146 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations pence per share 6.8p 6.3p Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations pence per share 6.6p 6.2p Discontinued operations Profit and adjusted profit from discontinued operations for the financial year attributable to shareholders 28 Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations pence per share 1.2p Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations pence per share 1.2p The convertible bond was excluded from the number of ordinary shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share in both years as it was not dilutive.
16 Dividends declared and paid 2007 08 2006 07 m m Final dividend in respect of the prior year 100 71 Interim dividend in respect of the current year 61 40 Total dividends paid 161 111 During the year ended 31 March 2008 the Group declared and paid a final dividend of 4.15 pence per share 2006 07 3.10 pence per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2007.
The Group has also declared and paid an interim dividend of 2.50 pence per share 2006 07 1.70 pence per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2008.
In respect of the year ended 31 March 2008 the Directors have proposed a final dividend of 5.00 pence per share 2006 07 4.15 pence per share, totalling 123 million 2006 07 100 million for approval by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 18 July 2008 in respect of the year ended 31 March 2008.
These financial statements do not reflect the proposed dividend, which will be accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ended 31 March 2009.
The number of shareholders electing to take all or part of their dividends in shares varies from dividend to dividend.
12,379 shareholders 2006 07 13,009 shareholders owning 708 million shares 2006 07 370 million shares elected to take the interim dividend wholly or partly in shares.
12,531 shareholders 2006 07 13,278 shareholders owning 122 million shares 2006 07 689 million shares elected to take the final dividend wholly or partly in shares.
Consequently, total shares were issued with a value of 23 million 2006 07 28 million.
The Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust waived its right to dividends on the shares held in the trust.
91 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2008 17 Impairment review The Group assesses the impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or otherwise as required by accounting standards.
Factors that are considered important, which could trigger an impairment review, are set out in note 3.3.
Goodwill As required by IFRS 3, a review of the carrying value of goodwill has been performed as at 31 March 2008 and at 31 March 2007.
In performing these reviews, the recoverable amount of goodwill has been determined by reference to the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use of the continuing operations of the related businesses.
There was no review of the goodwill relating to Connecteo which was acquired in January 2008.
Europe, Asia & US Europe, Asia & US has one cash generating unit.
Goodwill of 431 million is allocated to this business at 31 March 2008.
A discounted cash flow analysis using the approved five year business plan reflecting a terminal value growth rate of 1% and a discount rate of 9% indicated that the carrying value of the goodwill was supported and no impairment charge was required.
The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use relate to revenue growth and the level of capital expenditure required to maintain the network at its current level.
Monaco Telecom Goodwill of 108 million is allocated to Monaco Telecom at 31 March 2008.
Three relevant cash generating units were identified for the purposes of assessing the carrying value of Monaco Telecoms network assets domestic including the cable television business, international business and other services.
Goodwill has been allocated to this group of cash generating units based on the fair value at the time of acquisition.
The value in use was determined for each cash generating unit by discounting future cash flows based on the approved five year business plan extrapolated at long-term growth rates of between 0% and 5% at discount rates of between 9% and 13% dependent on the risk adjusted cost of capital of different parts of the business.
The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use relate to revenue growth, operating margin and the level of maintenance capital expenditure required to maintain the network at its current level.
Monaco Telecom operates under an exclusive concession in Monaco and managements forecasts were based on historical experience for the business.
Other non-current assets and other intangibles Year ended 31 March 2008 There were no events or changes in circumstances during the year to indicate that the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets had been impaired, except as noted below: Cable & Wireless Jamaica A review of the carrying value of the property, plant and equipment of Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd, a subsidiary of the Group, was conducted at year end in the light of the poor trading performance during the year.
The value in use was determined for each of the four cash generating units of the business mobile, fixed, data and internet by discounting estimated future cash flows based on the companys five year forecast at a US dollar equivalent discount rate of 11.7%.
The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use relates to: Revenue a terminal growth rate of 0% to 2% depending on the cash generating unit: Maintenance capital expenditure assumed at an average of 5% of revenue in perpetuity: Operating costs estimated to remain at broadly the same level throughout the projection before inflation.
These assumptions reflect the recent introduction of competition in the local market.
The impairment charge recognised in Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd that has been reflected in the Group income statement is 37 million.
Year ended 31 March 2007 There were no events or changes in circumstances during the year to indicate that the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets had been impaired, except as noted below: TSTT The Group reviewed the carrying value of its investment in its joint venture Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and Tobago Limited TSTT during the 2006 07 year in the light of the poor trading performance and the introduction of competition during that year.
The value in use was determined for each of the three cash generating units of the business fixed line, GSM mobile and CDMA mobile by discounting estimated future cash flows based on the Groups view at a local currency discount rate of 14.2%.
The key assumptions in the calculation of value relate to: Revenue a decline of 18% has been assumed to reflect the impact of liberalisation for the first time: Maintenance capital expenditure assumed at 7% of revenue: Operating costs estimated to remain at broadly the same level throughout the projection before inflation.
These assumptions reflect the further impact of competition and fixed to mobile substitution in the local market.
The Groups share of the impairment charge that has been reflected in the Group income statement was 29 million.
92 18 Intangible assets Customer Licences and contracts and Goodwill Software concessions relationships Other Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 April 2006 473 672 74 132 21 1,372 Business combinations note 40 71 71 Additions 37 3 40 Disposals 20 2 1 23 Transfers between categories 12 1 11 Transfers to property, plant and equipment 10 10 Exchange differences 1 7 1 1 10 At 1 April 2007 523 678 74 132 33 1,440 Business combinations note 40 19 19 Additions 5115 268 Disposals 1 1 Transfers between categories 4 4 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 7 7 Exchange differences 7 2 9 5 19 At 31 March 2008 549 729 102 132 40 1,552 Amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2006 629759 650 Charge for the year 16 4 12 18 50 Exchange differences 5 5 At 1 April 2007 640 11 17 27 695 Charge for the year 24 5 13 5 47 Disposals 1 1 Exchange differences 1 2124 At 31 March 2008 662 18 31 34 745 Net book value At 31 March 2008 549 67 84 101 6 807 At 31 March 2007 523 38 63 115 6 745 The goodwill recognised during the year relates to acquired goodwill in Energis 10 million and Connecteo 10 million and a reduction to the goodwill acquired in Monaco Telecom 1 million see note 40.
The balances of goodwill for Energis, Monaco Telecom and Connecteo at 31 March 2008 are 431 million, 108 million and 10 million respectively.
The goodwill recognised during 2006 07 related to Monaco Telecom 34 million and Energis 37 million see note 40.
93 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2008 19 Property, plant and equipment 2007 08 2006 07 Land and Plant and Assets under Land and Plant and Assets under buildings equipment construction Total buildings equipment construction Total m m m m m m m m Cost At 1 April 461 6,583 204 7,248 533 6,570 333 7,436 Additions 8 26 309 343 5 40 318 363 Business combinations 2 2 Disposals 3 93 1 97 1 120 64 185 Transfers 42 316 358 19 358 377 Transfer to from intangibles 7 7 10 10 Transfer to held for sale assets 68 4 72 Exchange differences 3 2 5 27 261 16 304 At 31 March 505 6,834 145 7,484 461 6,583 204 7,248 Depreciation At 1 April 315 5,468 5,783 345 5,550 52 5,947 Charge for the year 11 241 252 15 221 236 Impairment 37 37 Disposals 2 90 92 1 120 52 173 Transfers 11 11 Transfer to held for sale assets 34 3 37 Exchange differences 412 16 10 180 190 At 31 March 339 5,657 5,996 315 5,468 5,783 Net book value at the end of the year 166 1,177 145 1,488 146 1,115 204 1,465 Included in the net book value of property, plant and equipment at 31 March 2008 is 14 million 2006 07 11 million of assets held under finance leases.
Additions during the year include interest and own work capitalised during the construction of certain assets of 2 million 2006 07 2 million and 49 million 2006 07 48 million respectively.
94 20 Investments in joint ventures and associates 2007 08 2006 07 Interest in Interest in Interest in joint ventures joint ventures associates Total m m m m Gross carrying amount At 1 April Cost 63 68 68 Equity loans 11 Share of post-acquisition reserves 100 158 1 157 163 226 226 Share of post-tax profit 37 27 12 15 Dividends 15 16 7 23 Disposals 5 5 Exchange differences 3 20 20 At 31 March 188 163 163 Impairment provision At 1 April 46 46 4 50 Impairment charge 1 Provision release 1 44 At 31 March 46 46 46 Net carrying amount at 31 March 142 117 117 The Groups total interest in its joint ventures and associates is presented below: Joint ventures Associates 31 March 31 March 31 March 2008 2007 2007 m m m Non-current assets 237 217 Current assets 107 75 Non-current liabilities 113 110 Current liabilities 89 65 Share of net assets 142 117 Revenue 190 200 52 Operating costs 148 193 40 Exceptional impairment relating to TSTT 29 Operating profit loss 42 22 12 Net interest financing costs 1 3 Share of profit loss before tax 41 25 12 Taxation charge 4 2 Dividends paid to Group companies 15 16 7 Share of retained profit loss 22 43 5 The disposal on 16 January 2007 of the Groups investment in Batelco resulted in a profit on disposal of 153 million as set out in note 10.
Investments in joint ventures and associates see note 44 are accounted for using the equity method.
The investment comprises the cost of the investment together with the Groups share of post-acquisition profit or loss less any impairments.
There are no significant restrictions on joint ventures ability to transfer funds to the Group.
The joint ventures have no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed, nor has the Group any significant contingent liabilities in relation to its interests in joint ventures.
The Groups joint ventures have not discontinued any operations during the year ended 31 March 2008 2006 07 nil.
95 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2008 21 Investments 2007 08 2006 07 Fair value Available through income Available for sale statement for sale Total m m m m At 1 April 15 39 15 54 Additions 10 Disposals 39 39 Fair value gain recorded in equity 2 At 31 March 27 1515 At 31 March 2008 available for sale financial investments comprise UK Government gilts and cash held as collateral 2006 07 UK Government gilts.
22 Trade and other receivables 31 March 31 March 2008 2007 m m Gross trade receivables 639 616 Valuation allowance 72 98 Net trade receivables 567 518 Other receivables 87 86 Prepayments and accrued income 193 242 Taxation and social security receivables 6 7 Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates 3 2 Trade and other receivables current 856 855 Other receivables 33 42 Prepayments and accrued income 27 20 Trade and other receivables non-current 60 62 Total trade and other receivables 916 917 The maximum exposure to credit risk for receivables is equal to the carrying value of those financial instruments.
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of receivables at 31 March 2008.
Concentrations of credit risks with respect to trade receivables are small as the Group customer base is large and unrelated.
Receivables predominantly relate to retail customers, Governments and corporate entities as well as other telecoms operators.
Customer risk procedures vary depending on the size or type of customer.
These procedures include such activities as credit checks, payment history analysis and credit approval limits.
Based on these procedures, management assessed the credit quality of those receivables that are neither past due nor impaired as low risk.
There have been no significant changes to the composition of receivables counterparties within the Group that indicate this would change in the future.
There have been no material changes in the markets in which the Group operates that would indicate an increased credit risk on receivables that are neither past due nor impaired.
96 22 Trade and other receivables continued An ageing analysis of the current net trade and other receivables that are not impaired is as follows: 2007 08 2006 07 Total Total m m Not yet due 312 299 Overdue 30 days or less 101 115 Overdue 31 to 60 days 40 50 Overdue 61 to 90 days 41 28 Overdue 91 days to 180 days 43 37 Overdue 181 days or more 117 75 Current net trade and other receivables 654 604 Due to the nature of the telecommunications industry, balances relating to interconnection with other carriers often have lengthy settlement periods.
Generally, interconnection agreements with major carriers result in receivables and payables balances with the same counterparty.
Industry practice is that receivable and payable amounts relating to interconnection revenue and costs for a defined period are agreed between counterparties and settled on a net basis.
Included within receivables are amounts relating to interconnection with other carriers of 244 million 2006 07 228 million.
There are no amounts held as collateral for trade and other receivables balances.
An analysis of the trade receivables valuation allowance for the period is as follows: 31 March 31 March 2008 2007 m m At 1 April 98 81 Bad debts written off 36 14 Increase in allowance 6 34 Exchange differences 4 3 At 31 March 72 98 All trade transactions with joint ventures and associates arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of Cable & Wireless products and services, network and access charges.
There were no material transactions with joint ventures and associated companies during the year.
23 Inventories Inventories of 17 million 2006 07 23 million are presented net of a provision of 2 million 2006 07 5 million made against slow moving or obsolete items.
The cost of equipment, consumables and accessories held for sale that were expensed within operating costs in 2007 08 was 79 million 2006 07 71 million.
During the year, the Group recorded no additional inventory valuation allowances 2006 07 1 million.
Inventories of the Group are not pledged as security or collateral against any of the Groups borrowings.
97 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2008 24 Cash and cash equivalents and other non-current assets Cash and cash equivalents typically include bank deposits, money market funds, commercial paper and government securities.
31 March 31 March 2008 2007 m m Cash in bank and hand 106 116 Short-term bank deposits 593 927 Cash and cash equivalents 699 1,043 Short-term bank deposits include money market and fixed income instruments, which can be readily converted to cash at short notice.
The effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits is 5.1% 2006 07 4.9%.
These deposits have an average maturity of 42 days 2006 07 68 days.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for cash and cash equivalents is equal to the carrying value of those financial instruments.
25 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale At the end of 2007 08, bonds of 5 million were identified as non-current assets held for sale.
At the end of 2006 07, certain freehold property of 34 million was identified as non-current assets held for sale.
At the end of the 2006 07 year, Cable & Wireless Allnet Ltd had been identified as a disposal group held for sale.
The assets and liabilities of this business were carried in the balance sheet at the lower of their carrying value or the expected proceeds less cost to sell as set out below: 31 March 2007 m Assets of disposal groups held for sale Property, plant and equipment 1 Other current assets 12 Cash and cash equivalents 5 Total assets of disposal groups held for sale 18 Liabilities directly associated with disposal groups held for sale Trade and other payables 10 Total liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 10 26 Trade and other payables 31 March 31 March 2008 2007 m m Trade payables 441 403 Payments received on account 3 4 Other taxation and social security costs 57 46 Other payables 62 113 Accruals 503 547 Deferred income 193 173 Total trade and other payables 1,259 1,286 Trade and other payables current portion 1,219 1,221 Trade and other payables non-current portion 40 65 There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of trade and other payables at 31 March 2008.
98 27 Loans and obligations under finance leases 31 March 31 March 2008 2007 m m Loans and bonds 4% convertible unsecured bonds extinguished during the year 213 Sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2012 and 2019 308 340 US dollar loans repayable at various dates up to 2038 81 125 Other currency loans repayable at various dates up to 2012 48 18 437 696 Loans and bonds current 45 68 Loans and bonds non-current 392 628 Finance lease payables Obligations under finance leases 19 20 Current portion of obligations under finance leases 14 9 Non-current portion of obligations under finance leases 5 11 Loans and obligations under finance leases current 59 77 Loans and obligations under finance leases non-current 397 639 The Groups borrowings are not secured, except for 20 million of the other currency loans 2006 07 18 million of the US dollar loans.
The repayment profile of loans and obligations is: 31 March 31 March 2008 2007 m m Loans and bonds Due in less than one year 45 68 Due in more than one year but not more than two years 21 10 Due in more than two years but not more than five years 213 265 Due in more than five years 158 353 Total loans and bonds 437 696 Interest is payable on loans and obligations falling due after more than five years at rates of between 6.55% and 8.63%.
31 March 31 March 2008 2007 m m Finance leases minimum lease payments Due in less than one year 15 11 Due in more than one year but not more than two years 3 12 Due in more than two years but not more than five years 2 Total obligations under finance leases 20 23 Less future finance charges on finance leases 1 3 Present value of finance lease liabilities 19 20 99 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2008 27 Loans and obligations under finance leases continued The present value of net finance lease liabilities is as follows: 31 March 31 March 2008 2007 m m Due in less than one year 14 9 Due in more than one year but not more than two years 3 11 Due in more than two years but not more than five years 2 Due in more than five years Present value of finance lease liabilities 19 20 Convertible unsecured bond On 16 July 2003, 257, 714,000 of 4% convertible unsecured bonds were issued at par.
Each bond entitled the holder to convert the amount of such bond into fully paid ordinary shares of 25 pence each at an amended rate of 689.655 ordinary shares for each 1,000 held at an initial conversion price of 145 pence per ordinary share at any time prior to 9 July 2010.
Full conversion of the bonds would have resulted in an additional 177, 733,748 shares being issued.
During the period, all of the convertible bonds in issue at 31 March 2007 were either repurchased or converted carrying value of 213 million.
Convertible bonds with a par value of 138 million were repurchased for cash of 190 million.
At the time of repurchase, the debt component of these convertible bonds had a carrying value of 117 million.
The fair value of the debt component of these bonds at the date of repurchase was 127 million.
This transaction resulted in a loss of 10 million.
The difference between the fair value of the debt and the cash consideration 63 million was allocated to the repurchase of the equity component of the convertible bond.
The remaining convertible bonds, with a par value of 120 million, were converted into 83 million ordinary shares including 29 million treasury shares.
The debt component of these convertible bonds had a carrying value of 103 million.
In April 2005, a cash settlement feature within the convertible bonds was removed.
The liability relating to this cash settlement feature was reclassified to equity at its fair value at that time 47 million.
As a result of extinguishing the convertible bonds, this amount was reclassified to retained earnings.
m Face value of convertible bonds issued on 16 July 2003 258 Issue costs 6 Equity conversion component on initial recognition 75 Previous years amortisation of the liability component 25 Liability component at 1 April 2006 202 Interest expense 21 Interest paid 10 Liability component at 31 March 2007 213 Interest expense 7 Liability component of convertible bonds repurchased or converted 220 Liability component at 31 March 2008 Interest expense on the bond was calculated on the effective yield basis by applying the effective interest rate 10.7% for an equivalent non-convertible bond to the liability component of the convertible bond.
100 27 Loans and obligations under finance leases continued Sterling bonds The Group has the following sterling bonds: a 200 million listed bond due in 2012 with a balance at 31 March 2008, net of costs, of 161 million 2006 07 161 million.
Interest is payable at 8.750% per annum.
b 200 million listed bond due in 2019 with a balance at 31 March 2008, net of costs, of 147 million 2006 07 179 million.
Interest is payable at 8.625% per annum.
During the year ended 31 March 2008, the Group repurchased but did not cancel 32 million of this bond at an average price of 102.1 pence.
US dollar loans Various US dollar-based loans of approximately 81 million 2006 07 125 million are held by various subsidiaries across the Group.
Interest on these loans ranges between 0% and 6.86%.
The loans are repayable over a period up to 2038.
The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows: 31 March 2008 31 March 2007 Currency Interest rate Currency Interest rate % % 4% convertible unsecured bond due in 2010 GBP 10.7 Sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2012 and 2019 GBP 8.7 GBP 8.7 US dollar loans repayable at various dates up to 2038 USD 4.6 USD 6.3 Other currency loans repayable at various dates up to 2012 Other 12.0 Other 5.3 Obligations under finance leases GBP 8.4 GBP 9.2 28 Financial liabilities at fair value 31 March 31 March 2008 2007 m m Monaco Telecom put option liability Current 59 60 Non-current 73 75 The balance within financial liabilities held at fair value represents the fair value of the put option held by the minority shareholders of Monaco Telecom.
Although the Group considers there to be only a remote likelihood of this put option being exercised, IAS 32 requires the present value of the amount payable to be recognised as a liability regardless of the probability of exercise, as this is not within the Groups control.
As this put option was issued as part of a business combination, any change in remeasuring the derivative to fair value is recorded as an adjustment to goodwill refer to note 40.
The put option held by the Principality is exercisable in two tranches.
The first tranche enables the Principality to put 20% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to the Group at various periods from 1 January 2008.
The second tranche enables the Principality to put 25% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to the Group three years after the first has been exercised.
Forward exchange contracts The Group held forward exchange contracts of US$50 million 25 million at 31 March 2008 hedging currency exposures in US dollars 2006 07 US$83 million 42 million hedging US and Jamaican dollars.
The Group did not apply hedge accounting to the forward exchange contracts.
The contracts are revalued to fair value at each reporting date.
Gains and losses on the contracts are recognised in the income statement.
101 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2008 29 Fair value and currency analysis A comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Groups loans and obligations under finance leases is set out below refer to note 27 for further information : 31 March 2008 31 March 2007 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value m m m m Financial liabilities Convertible bond due in 2010 extinguished during the period 213 311 Sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2012 and 2019 308 304 340 355 US dollar loans repayable at various dates up to 2038 81 81 125 125 Other currency loans repayable at various dates up to 2012 48 48 18 18 Obligations under finance leases 19 19 20 20 Market values obtained from third parties have been used to determine the fair value of the sterling bonds and convertible bond.
For all other financial liabilities the carrying amount has been used as it closely approximates fair value.
The carrying amounts of the Groups cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 31 March 2008 31 March 2007 Financial Financial Financial Financial assets liabilities assets liabilities m m m m Sterling 447 308 551 553 US dollar 142 81 338 125 Euro 49 112 Other currencies 61 48 47 18 699 437 1,048 696 30 Deferred tax The movements in deferred tax asset and liabilities during the year are as follows: Capital allowances on Balance non-current sheet assets Tax losses Pensions Other offset Total m m m m m m Deferred tax assets 17 13 1 7 21 17 Deferred tax liabilities 56 11 5 21 51 At 1 April 2006 39 13 10 2 34 Profit and loss credit charge 14 6 5 3 Tax charged to equity 4 1 5 Exchange differences 5 1 2 1 5 At 31 March 2007 20 12 18 5 31 Deferred tax assets 34 12 3 21 28 Deferred tax liabilities 54 18 8 21 59 At 31 March 2007 20 12 18 5 31 Profit and loss credit 2931 15 Tax charged to equity 11 11 Exchange differences 3 1 1 1 At 31 March 2008 15 20 4 5 4 Deferred tax assets 30 20 1 1 26 26 Deferred tax liabilities 45 5 6 26 30 At 31 March 2008 15 20 4 5 4 102 30 Deferred tax continued Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following temporary differences: Capital allowances available on non-current assets Tax losses Pensions Other Total m m m m m At 1 April 2007 3,796 14,769 6 125 18,696 At 31 March 2008 3,721 14,696 23 118 18,558 Tax losses of 11 million 2006 07 18 million expire within one year, 22 million 2006 07 28 million expire within three years, 5 million 2006 07 14 million expire within five years, 70 million 2006 07 72 million expire within ten years and 40 million 2006 07 23 million expire after more than ten years.
Other deferred tax assets are not subject to expiry.
The 14,696 million 2006 07 14,769 million tax losses include UK capital losses of 2,635 million 2006 07 2,746 million.
Other losses principally arise in overseas holding companies and the opportunity to realise benefits from them is considered remote.
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates where the Group controls the timing of remittance and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches and joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is 475 million 2006 07 475 million.
These temporary differences relate to unremitted earnings.
31 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 2007 08 2006 07 Network Network and asset and asset Redundancy retirement Redundancy retirement Property costs obligations Other Total Property costs obligations Other Total m m m m m m m m m m At 1 April 82 7 77 60 226 55 36 91 100 282 Charged to income statement Additional provision 10 35 10 33 88 53 39 7 17 116 Amounts used 19 28 13 15 75 8 65 7 28 108 Unused amounts reversed 6 2 14 22 19 2 14 28 63 Discount unwind 2 6 8 1 113 Exchange differences 112 1 1 2 4 At 31 March 69 12 81 65 227 82 7 77 60 226 Current portion 17 12 14 49 92 25 7122872 Non-current portion 52 67 16 135 57 6532 154 Property Provision has been made for the lower of the best estimate of the unavoidable lease payments or cost of exit in respect of vacant properties.
Unavoidable lease payments represent the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant properties being sub-let.
The provision is expected to be used over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
Property provisions released in the year relate to Europe, Asia & US 4 million see note 6 following the reassessment of its property portfolio and a release in respect of the Groups former US operations 2 million see note 14.
In 2006 07, property provisions released related to Europe, Asia & US 16 million see note 6 following the reassessment of its property portfolio and a release in respect of the Groups former US operations 3 million see note 14.
103 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2008 31 Provisions for other liabilities and charges continued Redundancy Provision has been made for the total employee related costs of redundancies announced prior to the reporting date.
Amounts provided for and spent in the year primarily relate to the restructuring in Europe, Asia & US and International.
The provision is expected to be used within one year.
Redundancy cost provisions released in the year relate to International 1 million and Europe, Asia & US 1 million see note 6.
In 2006 07, redundancy cost provisions released related to International see note 6.
Network and asset retirement obligations Provision has been made for the best estimate of the unavoidable costs associated with redundant leased network capacity.
Provision has also been made for the best estimate of the asset retirement obligation associated with office sites, technical sites, domestic and sub-sea cabling.
This provision is expected to be used at the end of the life of the related asset on which the obligation arises.
Amounts utilised in the year relate predominantly to cash expenditure against unavoidable costs associated with redundant network capacity.
In 2006 07, network and asset retirement obligations provision releases related to International 13 million following the resolution of contractual disputes and Europe, Asia & US 1 million.
Other Other provisions include amounts relating to specific legal claims against the Group, the disposal of the previously discontinued US businesses, amounts relating to specific claims held against the Groups former insurance operation, Pender, and amounts relating to acquisitions and disposals of Group companies and investments.
The release of unused amounts reflect the resolution of claims and other risks during the year.
Other provisions released in the year include an amount of 6 million in Central following a reassessment of provisions made in respect of the Groups former insurance operation, Pender see note 11, and 3 million in Central following a reassessment of provisions relating to disposals made in previous years see note 14.
In addition, provisions of 1 million and 4 million were released in Europe, Asia & US and International respectively following resolution of claims.
In 2006 07, other provisions released included an amount of 25 million in Central following a reassessment of provisions made in respect of the Groups former US operation see note 14, 2 million in Europe, Asia & US and 1 million in International.
32 Retirement benefits obligations The Company and its principal subsidiaries operate pension and other retirement schemes, which cover the majority of employees in the Group.
These schemes include both defined benefit schemes, where retirement benefits are based on the employees remuneration and length of service, and defined contribution schemes, where retirement benefits reflect the accumulated value of agreed contributions paid by, and in respect of, employees.
Contributions to the defined benefit schemes are made in accordance with the recommendations of independent actuaries who value the schemes.
The main UK defined benefit scheme was closed to new members in 1998.
Defined contribution schemes The pension cost for the year for the defined contribution schemes of the Group was 15 million 2006 07 13 million, of which 12 million 2006 07 10 million was for the main UK scheme.
Defined benefit schemes Main UK scheme funding valuation The latest triennial actuarial valuation was carried out by Watson Wyatt Limited as at 31 March 2007.
The projected unit credit method was used and the principal actuarial assumptions adopted were that the annual rate of inflation would be 3.1% and that future increases in pensionable earnings would be 4.1% per annum: investments held in respect of pensions before they become payable would average 6.2% annual rate of return: investments held in respect of pensions after they become payable would average 4.9% annual rate of return: and pensions would increase at an annual rate of 3% for fixed guarantee pensions and 3.1% for inflation related pensions.
As at 31 March 2007, the value of the assets represented approximately 99% of the actuarial value of benefits due to members calculated on the basis of pensionable earnings and service at 31 March 2007 on an ongoing basis and allowing for projected increases in pensionable earnings.
The assumptions regarding current mortality rates in retirement were set having regard to the actual experience of the Funds pensioners and dependents over the five years ended 31 March 2007.
In addition, allowance was made for future mortality improvements in line with medium cohort projections of the 1992 mortality series tables published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, subject to a minimum annual rate of improvement of 1.5%.
104 32 Retirement benefits obligations continued Based on these assumptions, the life expectancies of pensioners aged 60 on the date of the last actuarial valuation, 31 March 2007, and in 10 and 20 years time are as follows: Life expectancy of pensioners aged 60 On 31 March On 31 March On 31 March 2007 2017 2027 years years years Males 27.4 28.8 30.3 Females 28.7 30.2 31.7 The actuarial valuation revealed that the deficit at 31 March 2007 in the defined benefit section was 15 million on the basis of the funding assumptions adopted by the actuary.
A 19 million contribution made to the scheme by Cable & Wireless on 28 March 2008 was calculated on the basis of the 15 million deficit at 31 March 2007, together with the interest cost that accrued on this amount during the year and the back-dating of the increased employers contribution rate to the valuation date.
As a result of the 19 million contribution, the scheme is fully funded on an ongoing basis, based on the 2007 valuation.
The actuarial valuation showed that based on long-term financial assumptions the contribution rate required to meet the future benefit accrual was 33.2% of pensionable earnings 28.5% employers and 4.7% employees.
This contribution rate will be reviewed when the next independent actuarial valuation is carried out, which will be based on the position at 31 March 2010.
The terms of the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund Trust Deed also allow the Trustees or the Company to call for a valuation at any time.
The future service contribution rate includes an allowance of 3% for administration expenses, excluding the Pension Protection Fund PPF levy.
Employers therefore paid a total contribution rate of 29.3% in 2007 08, or 11.8 million.
As part of the agreement of the valuation assumptions with the Trustees, the Group has agreed to provide certain financial information on a semi-annual basis to allow the Trustees to monitor the Groups financial performance.
Should the Groups projected EBITDA fall below an agreed level, and the cash and committed facilities net of any prior ranking creditors available to the Group also fall below an agreed level, the Group would provide security to the Trustees in the form of an escrow arrangement or bank letter of credit for an amount equal to the shortfall against the agreed level of cash and committed facilities net of any prior ranking creditors.
Main UK scheme and other schemes IAS 19 valuation The actuarial valuations of the major defined benefit schemes and medical plans operated by the Group have been updated to 31 March 2008 by qualified independent actuaries for all subsidiaries.
Watson Wyatt Limited prepared the valuation for the main UK scheme and unfunded schemes, and reviewed the actuarial valuations prepared for subsidiaries.
Other schemes include unfunded liabilities in the UK relating to pension provisions for former Directors and other senior employees in respect of their earnings in excess of the previous Inland Revenue salary cap.
Also included are the Groups overseas schemes in Macau, Jamaica, Barbados, Guernsey, Hong Kong and Ireland.
The main financial assumptions applied in the valuations and an analysis of schemes assets are as follows: 2007 08 2006 07 Main UK scheme Other schemes Main UK scheme Other schemes Assets Assumption Assets Assumption Assets Assumption Assets Assumption m % m % m % m % Inflation assumption 3.5 4.9 3.0 4.3 Salary increases 4.0 6.5 3.5 6.0 Pension increases 2.3-3.4 4.9 2.2-3.0 4.2 Discount rate 6.8 8.3 5.3 7.5 Medical cost trends for post-retirement medical plans 9.8 10.3 Long-term expected rate of return on plan assets Equities 944 8.0 88 8.1 1,113 7.8 87 7.9 Bonds and gilts 500 5.2 73 5.1 777 5.0 69 5.0 Property 125 7.0 45 8.4 164 6.5 37 7.0 Cash 546 4.4 21 4.3 25 4.5 17 4.4 2,115 227 2,079 210 The main UK scheme assumptions used by the actuary are best estimates from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The assumptions shown above for Other schemes represent a weighted average of the assumptions used for the individual schemes, which similarly may not be borne out in practice.
A one year increase or decrease in the life expectancy assumptions would have changed the main UK scheme liabilities by around 36 million.
A 0.25% change in the discount rate used to value the scheme liabilities would have changed the liabilities by around 85 million.
A 0.25% change in the assumed rate of salary increases would have changed the liabilities required by around 5 million.
105 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2008 32 Retirement benefits obligations continued The overall expected rate of return for each pension scheme is a weighted average of the expected asset return for each asset class.
The expected asset return for each asset class has been set as a best estimate of the long-term return that will be achieved for the particular asset class in the country in question having regard to investment yields on the measurement date.
The main UK defined benefit scheme is closed to new entrants.
Under the projected unit credit method used for the valuation of liabilities, the current service cost will increase when expressed as a percentage of pensionable payroll as the members of the scheme approach retirement.
The assets and liabilities of the defined benefit schemes and post-retirement medical plans operated by the Group are presented below: 31 March 2008 31 March 2007 31 March 2006 Main UK Other Main UK Other Main UK Other scheme schemes Total scheme schemes Total scheme schemes Total m m m m m m m m m Total fair value of plan assets 2,115 227 2,342 2,079 210 2,289 1,978 236 2,214 Present value of funded obligations 1,740 175 1,915 2,036 162 2,198 2,067 200 2,267 Excess of assets liabilities of funded obligations 375 52 427 43 48 91 89 36 53 Present value of unfunded obligations 36 36 40 40 38 38 Effect of asset ceiling 375 30 405 23 23 11 11 Net deficit surplus 14 14 43 15 28 89 13 102 Liabilities Defined benefit pension plans in deficit 30 30 33 33 89 39 128 Post-retirement medical plans unfunded 16 16 14 14 15 15 Total 46 46 47 47 89 54 143 Assets Defined benefit pension plans in surplus 3232 43 32 75 41 41 Actuarial gains losses on plan liabilities 346 2 344 77 3 80 224 14 238 Actuarial losses gains on plan assets 63 1 62 32 5 37 206 206 Included within these liabilities is an amount of 13 million 2006 07 15 million to cover the cost of former Directors pension entitlements.
The effect of these adjustments described as asset ceiling adjustments was 405 million in the period 2006 07 23 million.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 31 March 2008 31 March 2007 Main UK Main UK scheme Other Total scheme Other Total m m m m m m Current service cost 10 6 16 14 6 20 Interest cost 106 15 121 101 16 117 Expected return on plan assets 135 20 155 121 21 142 Gains on curtailment or settlement 2 3 5 6 6 Total income expense 21 2 23 12 1 11 The defined benefit expense has been included in employee benefit expenses note 9.
The actual return on plan assets was 93 million 2006 07 179 million.
Net actuarial gains amounting to 282 million 2006 07 gains of 117 million have been recognised directly in equity and are presented in the statement of recognised income and expenses.
In addition an actuarial loss of 382 million 2006 07 loss of 12 million has been recognised in the statement of recognised income and expenses due to the change in the effect of asset ceilings.
The total amount recognised in the statement of recognised income and expenses in the current financial year and cumulatively to 31 March 2008 is a loss of 100 million 2006 07 gain of 105 million and gain of 72 million 2006 07 gain of 172 million respectively.
106 32 Retirement benefits obligations continued Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows: 2007 08 2006 07 Main UK Main UK scheme Other Total scheme Other Total m m m m m m Obligation at 1 April 2,036 202 2,238 2,067 238 2,305 Service cost 10 6 16 14 6 20 Interest cost 106 15 121 101 16 117 Actuarial gains losses recognised in equity 346 2 344 77 3 80 Employee contributions 2 2 4 2 2 4 Settlement curtailments 235 62834 Exchange differences on foreign plans 33 1919 Benefits paid 66 10 76 65 10 75 Obligation at 31 March 1,740 211 1,951 2,036 202 2,238 Changes in the fair value of defined benefit assets are as follows: 2007 08 2006 07 Main UK Main UK scheme Other Total scheme Other Total m m m m m m Fair value of assets as at 1 April 2,079 210 2,289 1,978 236 2,214 Expected return 135 20 155 121 21 142 Actuarial losses gains recognised in equity 63 1 62 32 5 37 Contributions by employer 28 7 35 11 7 18 Employee contributions 224 224 Settlement curtailments 28 28 Exchange differences on foreign plans 3 3 23 23 Benefits paid 66 10 76 65 10 75 Fair value of assets as at 31 March 2,115 227 2,342 2,079 210 2,289 Experience gains for the period are as follows: 31 March 2008 31 March 2007 31 March 2006 31 March 2005 Main UK Main UK Main UK Main UK scheme Other scheme Other scheme Other scheme Other m m m m m m m m Defined benefit obligation 1,740 211 2,036 202 2,067 238 1,787 206 Plan assets 2,115 227 2,079 210 1,978 236 1,611 215 Surplus deficit excluding the effects of the asset ceiling 375 16 43 8 89 2 176 9 Experience gains losses on plan liabilities 14 8 7 5 15 14 36 9 Experience losses gains on plan assets 63 1 32 5 206 43 15 The best estimate of contributions for 2008 09 is: Main UK scheme Other Total m m m Employer contributions excluding one-off contributions 10 4 14 Employee contributions 224 The pension disclosures above include three post-retirement medical plans, one in Jamaica and two in Barbados.
An increase decrease in the assumed medical cost trend of 1% would have no material effect on the aggregate of current service costs and interest costs 2006 07 no material effect and would increase decrease the accumulated defined benefit obligation by 3 million 3 million 2006 07 3 million 2 million.
107 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2008 33 Share capital 31 March 31 March 2008 2007 m m Authorised 875 875 2007 08 3,500,000,000 ordinary shares of 25 pence each 2006 07 3,500,000,000 ordinary shares of 25 pence each Issued, called-up and fully paid 634 615 2007 08 2,536,623,051 ordinary shares of 25 pence each 2006 07 2,460,483,642 ordinary shares of 25 pence each Number of shares m Issued, called-up and fully paid At 1 April 2006 2,421,046,668 605 Allotted under share options scheme 15,906,014 4 Allotted under scrip dividends 23,530,960 6 At 31 March 2007 2,460,483,642 615 Allotted under share options scheme 10,439,382 3 Allotted under scrip dividends 12,343,480 3 Allotted under convertible bonds 53,356,547 13 At 31 March 2008 2,536,623,051 634 The aggregate nominal value of the shares allotted in the year was 19 million 2006 07 10 million.
The Company did not repurchase any shares in 2007 08 or 2006 07.
In addition to 53 million new shares issued as part of the bond conversion in 2007 08, the Company issued 29 million treasury shares.
No treasury shares were cancelled during the year.
The nominal value and market value of treasury shares excluding those held by the ESOP trust held at 31 March 2008 was 11 million 2006 07 19 million and 68 million 2006 07 125 million respectively.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, each share other than those held in treasury entitles the holder to one vote at General Meetings of Cable and Wireless plc.
The Companys shareholders can declare dividends by passing an ordinary resolution, but the payment cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
Allotments of ordinary shares of 25 pence each were made during the year in respect of the following: 31 March 2008 31 March 2007 Gross Gross Number of consideration Number of consideration allotted shares received allotted shares received Savings Related Share Option Scheme 5,085,150 2,506,801 4,839,092 3,561,002 Global Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1,461,876 1,066,300 2,129,125 1,154,318 Share Option Plan Approved 166,781 194,162 569,680 626,337 Share Option Plan Unapproved 3,725,575 3,998,381 8,368,117 9,325,263 1 Scrip dividends 12,343,480 23,530,960 2 Convertible bonds 53,356,547 Total 76,139,409 7,765,644 39,436,974 14,666,920 1 Shares with a cash equivalent value of 23 million 2006 07 28 million were issued during the year as payment for dividends by scrip.
2 Shares with a cash equivalent value of 106 million were issued during the year as part of the conversion of bonds.
108 33 Share capital continued The Group defines capital as share capital, share premium, special reserve, capital reserve, minority interest and retained earnings.
The Groups objective in managing capital is to maintain a capital structure that optimises returns to shareholders having regard to the liquidity requirements and the relative cost of debt and equity.
It does not have any externally imposed requirement for managing capital, other than those imposed by Company Law.
The Group manages its capital position in such a way as to optimise the weighted average cost of debt and equity taking into account: the liquidity required in the light of the projected funding requirements of the Groups operating businesses with an appropriate level of contingency: the level of financial strength required to maintain the Groups terms of trade taking account of its operational cash generation: the relative post-tax cost of debt and equity: and the extent to which external debt finance is, or is likely to be, available to the Group on acceptable terms.
This strategy is unchanged from the prior year.
The Articles of Association of the Company permit borrowing up to two and a half times the capital and reserves of the Group.
During the period, the Group actively managed its capital position by repurchasing a proportion of its convertible bonds so as to limit the dilution to existing shareholders.
The Group also ensures that sufficient funds and distributable reserves are held to allow payments of projected dividends to shareholders.
This process is managed through the Groups budget and five year forecast process.
34 Share premium and other reserves Foreign currency Share Special Other Fair value translation Retained premium reserve reserves reserve reserve earnings Total m m m m m m m At 1 April 2006 24 1,714 152 3 10 923 980 Premium on shares issued during the year 32 42 42 32 ESOP Trust shares issued to satisfy share awards 3 3 Profit for the year 174 174 Net actuarial gains recognised net of deferred taxation 103 103 Foreign currency translation reserves 140 140 Share-based payment costs 25 25 Dividends 111 111 At 31 March 2007 56 1,672 152 3 130 687 1,066 Cash received in respect of employee share schemes 6 6 Own shares purchased 2 2 Fair value gain on available-for-sale assets 2 2 Acquisition of minority interest 4 4 Tax on items in equity 11 11 Profit for the year 164 164 Net actuarial losses recognised net of deferred taxation 98 98 Foreign currency translation reserve 2 2 Share-based payment costs 16 16 Conversion of convertible bonds 75 88 124 111 Repurchase and conversion of convertible bonds 47 38 85 Dividends 161 161 Shares allotted under share option schemes 5 8 8 5 Shares allotted under scrip dividend scheme 20 23 23 20 At 31 March 2008 156 1,553 101 5 128 634 1,053 109 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2008 34 Share premium and other reserves continued Special reserve The special reserve relates to the cancellation of the share premium account at February 2004 which was approved by the Company at the 2003 AGM and confirmed by the Court in February 2004.
It is reduced from time to time by the amount of any increase in the paid-up share capital and share premium account of the Company after 20 February 2004 resulting from the issue of new shares for cash or other new consideration or upon a capitalisation of distributable reserves.
The special reserve will not be treated as realised profits of the Company until any debt or claim against the Company outstanding as at 20 February 2004 has been repaid or remedied.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve contains exchange differences on the translation of subsidiaries with a functional currency other than that of the Company.
Other reserves In 2007 08, other reserves included a capital redemption reserve of 105 million 2006 07 105 million and a reserve relating to transactions with minority interests of 4 million 2006 07 nil.
In 2006 07, included in other reserves was an equity reserve of 47 million resulting from the transfer of the conversion element of the Groups convertible bond from derivative financial instruments to equity in 2005 06.
This reserve was transferred to retained earnings during the period upon extinguishment of the convertible bonds.
35 Share-based payments Share option schemes The share option schemes operating as at 31 March 2008 or having options outstanding as at this date, are as follows: Cable & Wireless Savings related share option scheme and Cable & Wireless Global savings related share option scheme Under the Cable & Wireless Savings related share option scheme SAYE scheme, UK employees were invited to enter a savings contract with a bank to save regular monthly sums of between 5 and 250 for a period of either three, five or seven years.
At the end of the savings contract, the participant receives interest from the bank on their savings.
The savings and the interest may then be used to exercise an option over ordinary shares of the Company, which are issued at a discount of 20% to the market value of the Companys ordinary shares at the date of grant.
The Company extended the SAYE scheme to its overseas employees by the Cable & Wireless Global savings related share option scheme GSAYE scheme.
The GSAYE scheme was last offered in December 2004.
In various of the Groups territories excluding the UK it operated along similar lines to the SAYE scheme with local variations to accommodate local legal and tax considerations.
Cable & Wireless Revenue approved share option scheme and Cable & Wireless Senior employees share option scheme Prior to July 2001, Cable & Wireless granted share options under the Cable & Wireless Senior employees share option scheme SESOS and the Cable & Wireless Revenue approved share option scheme RESOS.
Options awarded under these plans between June 1999 and July 2001 are subject to performance conditions based on Cable & Wireless TSR performance relative to the FTSE 100 Index, underpinned by real growth in EBITDA and revenue.
TSR is share price growth adjusted for dividends and capital actions.
TSR performance is averaged over a three month period at the beginning and end of the performance period.
This moderates the effect of short-term share price volatility.
For full vesting, Cable & Wireless TSR must achieve at least upper quartile level against the FTSE 100 between the third and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.
Half vesting applies for TSR at the median level, with a sliding scale between median and upper quartile.
If the performance conditions are not met by the fifth anniversary of the date of grant, the options lapse.
As at the date of this report, none of these options have achieved their performance conditions.
Options granted under RESOS and SESOS before June 1999 became exercisable if growth in the Companys published earnings per share excluding exceptional items measured over any period of three consecutive financial years, commencing not earlier than the financial year in which the option was granted, exceeded by not less than 6% of the percentage growth of the Retail Price Index over the same three year period.
All such options became exercisable in full.
No further grants will be made under the RESOS and SESOS plans.
Cable & Wireless Share option plan approved and unapproved The level of any share option award is determined by the Remuneration Committee each year by reference to total remuneration within a market peer group, subject to an overriding annual limit of ten times salary for Executive Directors.
The vesting of share options awarded to the Executive Directors and to all employees outside the US is subject to relative TSR performance conditions.
For options granted before May 2004, full vesting occurs only if the TSR performance of the Company meets or exceeds the upper quartile between the third and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.
Where TSR performance meets the median, 50% of the initial award vests.
A sliding scale operates between median and upper quartile, and nothing vests for TSR performance below the median.
If performance conditions have not been met by the fifth anniversary of the date of grant, the option lapses.
For options granted from May 2004, the re-testing of performance conditions for share options granted from that date will cease.
If performance conditions for these options have not been met by the third anniversary of the date of grant the option lapses.
For options granted from June 2005, 33.33% of options vest where TSR performance meets the median and if the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the underlying financial performance of the Group warrants the release of the shares.
110 35 Share-based payments continued Performance conditions are applied in determining the level of awards to employees in the US, but do not normally apply to the vesting of such awards.
In addition, 25% of awards to employees in the US vest on the first anniversary of the date of the grant with a further 25% on each subsequent anniversary.
These terms reflect normal practice in the US.
The Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP Trust The Cable & Wireless ESOP Trust is a discretionary trust, which has been funded by loans from the Company to acquire shares in Cable and Wireless plc.
At 31 March 2008 the Trust holds 26,859,407 shares with a cost of 73 million and a market value of 40 million.
The costs of running the Trust are included in the profit and loss account as they accrue.
The Trustees of the plan may notionally allocate ordinary shares in the Company annually to Executive Directors or other senior executives and other key staff.
Shares are held in trust until such time as they may be transferred to employees in accordance with the terms of the performance share plan, the restricted share plan, the deferred short-term incentive plan and the share option plan, details of which are given below.
The shares will be provided from existing ordinary shares in issue acquired by the Trustees.
Surplus shares may be held to satisfy future awards.
The Trust has waived its rights to dividends.
At 31 March 2008, there were 1,341,077 shares under contingent awards in relation to the performance share plan, 22,206,013 shares under restricted share awards in relation to the restricted share plan, 767, 880 shares under the deferred short-term incentive plan, 554,988 shares under the stock appreciation rights plan, and 6,634,719 shares under options in relation to the share option plan.
Other equity instrument awards Deferred short-term incentive plan Deferred STIP The deferred STIP is designed to encourage participants to invest in shares to align their interests more closely with those of shareholders.
Under this plan any bonus deferred is used to purchase shares in the Company, which are held in trust for three years before being released to the participant.
Participants may also be awarded up to two matching shares for every one purchased share based on the relative TSR performance of the Company measured over a three year period see performance conditions for share-based awards on page 56.
A dividend award supplement also operates on the deferred STIP.
Dividends that would have been paid on the purchased shares and the actual award of matching shares during the performance period are reinvested in additional shares.
For the 2005 06 financial year, Executive Directors were able to elect to pay up to two thirds of any net annual bonus and senior executives could elect to pay up to one third of any net bonus into the deferred STIP.
Conditional matching shares were awarded on a gross basis, i. e. for every 100 of net bonus invested in the deferred STIP, participants have the potential to receive matching shares with a face value on grant of 333.
No award has been made under the deferred STIP since 30 September 2005.
Deferred bonus scheme Executive Directors and selected senior executives were able voluntarily to defer between 10% and 50% of their post-tax senior management bonus to purchase shares in the Company, which will be held in trust.
Half of the purchased shares will be held in trust for a two year deferral period and the remaining half will be held in trust for a three year deferral period.
Participants will be awarded matching shares when the purchased shares vest at the end of the deferral periods.
No award has been made under the deferred bonus scheme since June 2004.
Performance share plan PSP Under the PSP, Executive Directors and other senior executives can receive awards of performance shares at nil cost.
The plan rules limit the value of shares that can be granted to an individual in any year to 100% of salary.
The vesting of performance shares is subject to relative TSR performance conditions see performance conditions for share-based awards on page 56.
A dividend award supplement operates on the PSP.
Dividends that would have been paid on the performance shares, which vest, will be regarded as having been re-invested in additional shares.
Restricted share plan RSP The RSP provides for awards of restricted shares to executives and selected employees below the Executive Directors, primarily as a retention or a recruitment tool to compensate for the forfeiture of long-term incentive arrangements when transferring to the Company.
Generally, 50% of any restricted shares awarded under this plan vest after one year with the remaining 50% vesting after three years.
Restricted shares are also used to award matching shares with performance conditions to Executive Directors who invested their own funds into Company shares.
Attainment of these matching shares is dependent on the Executive Director continuing to hold the invested shares and on meeting the required TSR performance conditions if applicable.
100% of any shares awarded under this plan vest after three years.
111 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2008 35 Share-based payments continued Performance conditions for share-based awards TSR is the main performance measure used in share plans where performance conditions apply as it provides an objective external measure of financial performance.
The Remuneration Committee will also consider the underlying financial performance of the Company at the end of the performance period.
The Remuneration Committee considers that it is important to measure and reward relative performance against an appropriate set of companies.
The Companys relative TSR performance is assessed against a comparative group comprising the FTSE Global Telecoms Sector Index FTSE GTSI, which provides a global benchmark of independently selected industry peers.
Awards vest depending upon the Companys TSR ranking relative to the comparative group at the end of a single three year performance period.
Cash-based awards Stock appreciation rights plan SARs The SARs plan is used to replicate exactly the plans described above, but rewards are delivered as a cash equivalent.
It is used in exceptional cases for countries in which tax or legal issues preclude the use of real shares or share options.
Other schemes Cable & Wireless share purchase plan SPP The Company also offers its employees who are chargeable to income tax, under Section 15 Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003, the Cable & Wireless share purchase plan which is a Revenue approved share incentive plan.
Under the SPP, employees can contribute up to a value of 1,500 or 10% of salary each tax year whichever is the lower, to buy partnership shares in the Company, and the Company will offer a match of one share for each partnership share purchased.
Shares are held in a UK resident trust and can be withdrawn from the trust at any time, but there may be pay as you earn taxation and national insurance contributions payable in such events if the shares have not been held in the trust for five years.
Dividends on the partnership and matching shares are reinvested in additional dividend shares.
High Performance Incentive Plan HPIP The HPIP provides for share awards at nil cost to senior managers in International.
It is a three year incentive plan and the scheme is worth up to 100% of a participants salary at the date they entered the plan.
The awards are based on performance periods years one and two that then vest after years two and three respectively, with the financial year 2006 07 being year one.
The performance targets are based on EBITDA and cash flow.
On vesting the shares are worth the maximum of the prevailing market value and the grant price.
A relatively small element of the HPIP is formed as a Phantom HPIP whereby the payments under the plan are made in cash rather than in shares.
UK Share Award On 25 July 2006, all permanent employees and fixed-term contractors of Europe, Asia & US based in the UK were awarded 1,000 in Cable and Wireless plc shares as a one-off gift.
Share options Options are exercised on a regular basis throughout the year.
Options exercised during the year ended 31 March 2008 resulted in 14.3 million shares 31 March 2007 18.6 million shares being issued at the average exercise price of 84 pence each 31 March 2007 94 pence each.
The related market weighted average share price at the time of the exercise was 169 pence per share 31 March 2007 141 pence per share.
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are shown below: 2007 08 2006 07 Average Average exercise exercise prices Options prices Options pence share 000 pence share 000 At 1 April 116 63,225 164 101,322 Granted 103 13,315 Forfeited 165 8,115 152 2,927 Exercised 84 14,305 94 18,632 Expired 321 2,198 285 29,853 At 31 March 106 38,607 116 63,225 Exercisable 104 12,042 175 14,321 112 35 Share-based payments continued Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following exercise prices: 31 March 2008 31 March 2007 Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average Number of exercise remaining life Number of exercise remaining life options price rounded to options price rounded to 1 1 Range of exercise prices pence outstanding pence share nearest year outstanding pence share nearest year 0-49 2,367,297 37 1 7,360,879 37 2 50-99 2,068,067 90 1 2,721,814 90 2 100-149 30,934,523 107 4 42,964,492 108 5 150-199 3,172,097 154 4 3,682,982 155 5 200-249 4,739,422 204 2 250-299 10,599 275 1 282,699 275 1 300-349 1,064,439 340 1 350-399 6,876 358 1 42,588 354 2 550-599 284,180 553 600-1,250 48,036 717 0 81,445 762 1 1 Weighted average remaining life relates to legal life of options not expected life.
There were no share options granted in 2007 08.
In 2006 07, 13 million options were granted with a weighted average fair value at the measurement date of 22 pence.
The Group computed the fair value of share option awards using the Monte Carlo pricing model.
The expected volatility was determined based on the statistical analysis of daily share prices over a historical period equal to the expected lives of the options.
Performance and other market conditions attached to awards were reflected in the calculation of fair value as part of the Monte Carlo simulations.
Other awards granted during 2007 08 2007 08 2006 07 Weighted Weighted average Features average Features fair value incorporated fair value incorporated Award Shares pence share in schemes Shares pence share in schemes TSR TSR RSP 7,604,396 114 conditions 11,242,072 117 conditions HPIP 6,026,558 123 10,579,140 123 Cash Settled Phantom HPIP 538,465 148 1,512,806 160 SARs 368,667 182 SPP scheme matching shares 1,208,361 184 UK share award 4,039,895 111 Of the 7.
6 million restricted share plan grants made during the period, 5.5 million had TSR conditions applicable 2006 07 nil million.
The remaining 2.1 million grants have no performance criteria attached 2006 07 none.
A fair value exercise was completed at 31 March 2008 for grants made during 2007 08 using the Monte Carlo method.
In the SPP scheme, shares are bought each month by the Halifax Corporate Trust on behalf of the Company, to match the investment of the employees.
Matching shares are awarded to the employee after three years, or earlier if a good leaver.
Monte Carlo pricing model assumptions used in the pricing of restricted share plan grants 2007 08 and option grants 2006 07 2007 08 2006 07 pence share pence share Weighted average share price 195 135 Weighted average exercise price N A 103 Dividend yield 3.0% 3.9% to 4.3% Expected volatility 25.6% 30.4% to 31.4% Risk-free interest rates 5.1% 4.7% Expected lives of the options 3 years 4 years No share-based payment arrangements were modified during the period.
The total expense relating to share-based payments which are equity settled transactions was 16 million 2006 07 25 million.
113 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2008 36 Minority interests 2007 08 2006 07 m m Balance as at 1 April 209 281 Share of total recognised income and expenditure for the year 44 24 Dividends paid 58 96 Disposals 3 Balance as at 31 March 192 209 37 Cash flows from operating activities Reconciliation of net profit to net cash inflow from operating activities: 2007 08 2006 07 Note m m Continuing operations Profit for the year 220 206 Adjustments for: Tax expense 13 47 43 Depreciation 17,19 289 236 Amortisation 18 47 50 Gain on termination of operations 11 9 15 Gains and losses on sale of non-current assets 10 1 153 Net loss on sale of Bulldog brand and retail customer base 11 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 56 11 Finance income 12 53 52 Finance expense 12 85 80 Decrease in provisions 9 28 Employee benefits 5 41 Defined benefit pension scheme top-up contributions 32 19 Defined benefit pension scheme other contributions 32 16 18 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 20 37 11 Operating cash flows before working capital changes 493 401 Changes in working capital excluding effects of acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries Decrease in inventories 6 8 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 5 76 Increase decrease in payables 5 186 Decrease in other assets 5 Cash generated from continuing operations 504 299 Discontinued operations Profit for the year 28 Adjustments for: Decreases in provisions and changes in working capital 28 Cash generated from discontinued operations Cash generated from operations 504 299 114 38 Commitments The Group had capital commitments at the end of the financial year relating to the purchase of property, plant and equipment of 70 million 2006 07 75 million.
No provision has been made for these commitments.
13 million 2006 07 11 million of these commitments relate to the Groups share of the capital commitments of its joint ventures.
In addition, the Group has a number of operating commitments arising in the ordinary course of the Groups business.
The most significant of these relate to network operating and maintenance costs.
In the event of default of another party, the Group may be liable to additional contributions under the terms of the agreements.
The Group leases land and buildings and networks under various lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalations, clauses and renewal rights.
The operating lease expenditure related to the year ended 31 March 2008 is disclosed in note 6.
The aggregate future minimum lease payments under operating leases are: 31 March 31 March 2008 2007 m m No later than one year 114 95 Later than one year but not later than five years 134 140 Later than five years 200 147 Total minimum operating lease payments 448 382 During the year the Group entered into operating lease committments of 96 million relating to property sold to a third party as part of a sale and leaseback transaction.
39 Guarantees and contingent liabilities Guarantees at the end of the financial year for which no provision has been made in the financial statements are as follows: 31 March 31 March 2008 2007 m m Trading guarantees 102 117 Other guarantees 57 59 Total guarantees 159 176 Trading guarantees principally comprise performance bonds or contracts issued in the normal course of business, guaranteeing that the Group will meet its obligations to complete projects in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions.
The nature of contracts includes projects, service level agreements, installation of equipment, surveys, purchase of equipment and transportation of materials.
The guarantees contain a clause that they will be terminated on final acceptance of work to be done under the contract.
Other guarantees include guarantees for financial obligations principally in respect of borrowings, leases and letters of credit.
Whilst Pender, the Groups former insurance operation, ceased to underwrite new business from April 2003, it has in the past written policies in favour of the Group and third parties.
Potentially significant insurance claims have been made against Pender under certain of these third party policies, which have also given rise to uncertainties and potential disputes with reinsurers.
Significant progress has been made in resolving these claims.
Detail of these insurance claims and potential claims are not disclosed as such disclosure may be prejudicial to the outcome of such claims.
In addition the Group has, as is considered standard practice in such agreements, given guarantees and indemnities in relation to a number of disposals of subsidiary undertakings in prior years.
Generally, liability has been capped at no more than the value of the sales proceeds, although some uncapped indemnities have been given.
The Group also gives warranties and indemnities in relation to certain agreements including facility sharing agreements.
Some of these agreements do not contain liability caps.
Whilst the Group ceased participation in the Merchant Navy Officers Pension Fund, it may be liable for future contributions to fund a portion of any future funding deficits.
Currently, the amount of these potential liabilities cannot be quantified.
115 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2008 40 Business combinations and acquisitions of minority interests The only subsidiaries acquired in 2007 08 were those in the Connecteo Group.
There were no subsidiaries acquired during 2006 07.
Connecteo Group In January 2008, the Group purchased a 49% stake in the Connecteo Group and gained management control of the holding company for cash consideration of 7 million.
The Connecteo Group provides satellite, data and internet services in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Guinea, Niger and Senegal.
The Group is committed to a further 16% purchase by 31 December 2008 for 4 million of cash consideration.
The Directors have performed a preliminary assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired as property, plant and equipment 2 million and net working capital liabilities 1 million.
The excess of consideration over the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities has been allocated to goodwill.
An exercise will be conducted over the course of the next six months to identify and value any other intangibles acquired.
The contribution from Connecteo to revenues and operating profit from the date of acquisition to 31 March 2008 was less than 1 million and nil respectively.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2007 the contribution to Group revenue would have been 3 million and the contribution to operating profit would have been nil.
St Kitts On 21 September 2007, the Group purchased an additional 17% shareholding in Cable & Wireless St Kitts and Nevis Limited St Kitts for cash consideration of 7 million.
The shares were previously held by the Government of the Federation of St Kitts & Nevis the Federation.
As a result of the acquisition, the Groups effective interest in St Kitts is increased from 65% to 82%.
This transaction has resulted in 3 million of minority interests transferred to retained earnings and a 4 million increase in other reserves.
As part of the purchase agreement with the Government, the Group has committed to offer 5% of the shares acquired to residents of the Federation.
Monaco Telecom Goodwill in connection with the Groups investment in Monaco Telecom SAM increased by 6 million during the year 2006 07 33 million increase.
The goodwill balance increased as a result of dividends and exchange movements offset by changes in the fair value of the put option.
As part of the acquisition of Monaco Telecom a put option was issued see note 28.
Changes in the fair value of this put option are treated as contingent consideration and adjusted against goodwill.
During the year, this change in the fair value of the put option resulted in a 12 million reduction in goodwill 2006 07 19 million increase.
A cash dividend of 11 million 2006 07 15 million was paid to the Principality of Monaco during the year.
This dividend reflected an increase in the Groups investment in Monaco Telecom and therefore an increase to goodwill.
The goodwill balance was also increased by 7 million as a result of exchange movements during the year 2006 07 1 million decrease.
Energis As part of the Energis acquisition on 11 November 2005, Cable & Wireless agreed to pay contingent consideration of between nil and a maximum of 80 million.
The amount of contingent consideration is linked to the Companys share price and may be satisfied, at the Groups option, in either cash or shares of the Company.
Payments are based on a ratio of 1.25 million for every one penny by which the maximum three month volume weighted average Cable and Wireless plc share price exceeds the reference price of 135 pence.
Payments began in March 2008 and are payable monthly until December 2008.
The payments are based upon Cable & Wireless volume weighted average share price for the three months prior to any relevant payment date.
Additional goodwill of 47 million 2006 07 37 million has been recognised in connection with the contingent consideration paid to date.
Payment of 49 million of contingent consideration was made during the period representing 47 million of additional goodwill and 2 million of interest unwind on the consideration.
In the event of a change of control of Cable & Wireless, or in the event of its shares ceasing to be admitted to the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges market for listed securities, a sum calculated in accordance with the terms of the contingent consideration will be payable in cash within ten business days.
41 Related party transactions Transactions with joint ventures and associates All trade transactions with joint ventures and associates arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of Cable & Wireless products and services, network and access charges.
There were no material trade transactions with joint ventures during the year.
The Group received dividends of 15 million from joint ventures 2006 07 16 million and no dividends from associates 2006 07 7 million during the year ended 31 March 2008 as set out in note 20.
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates in respect of trading balances are set out in note 22.
Transactions with key management personnel There were no material transactions with key management personnel, including loans advanced to Directors or other key managers, except for those relating to remuneration, disclosed in notes 9 and 35, and shareholdings.
116 41 Related party transactions continued Transactions with other related parties There are no controlling shareholders of the Group.
There have been no material transactions with the shareholders of the Company.
Other than the parties disclosed above, the Group has no other material related parties.
42 Licences and concessions In a number of countries the Group holds licences or concessions to operate.
These licences take a variety of forms and their terms, rights and obligations vary significantly.
The Group assumes that it will renew licences as they expire.
Previous history indicates this is the most likely outcome.
Were renewal not to occur, in most cases the business or its assets would be transferred to the new operator or government at fair or net book value.
In a small number of locations, transfer is at a value below net book value.
In these places the Group monitors closely the likelihood of licence renewal in order to ensure that should a licence not be renewed, the business assets have been written down to their recoverable value at the point of transfer.
There were no significant changes to the terms of the Groups licences in the year.
43 Legal proceedings In the ordinary course of business, the Group is engaged in litigation proceedings, regulatory claims, investigations and reviews.
The Group consider adequate allowance has been made in respect of these matters and does not expect the ultimate resolution of the actions to which it is a party to have a materially adverse impact on the financial position of the Group.
In July 2007, Cable & Wireless received a claim from a Caribbean competitor, Digicel, which the Group believes is without foundation and which is being vigorously defended.
The claim alleges that Cable & Wireless delayed Digicels entry into seven Caribbean markets by not providing interconnection between their networks and Groups on a timely basis.
Based on legal advice, Cable & Wireless expect to defend this claim successfully, but have recorded a charge of 11 million for legal and other fees related to our defence.
44 Subsidiaries and joint ventures The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those companies whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affects the figures shown in the financial statements.
Issued share Ownership Local capital percentage Class of Country of Area of currency million % shares incorporation operation Subsidiaries Cable & Wireless UK GBP 3,033 100 Ordinary England UK Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd J$ 16,817 82 Ordinary Jamaica Jamaica 1 Cable & Wireless Panama, SA Balboa 316 49 Ordinary Panama Panama 2 Companhia fide Telecomunicacoes fide Macau, SARL Pataca 150 51 Ordinary Macau Macau and China Cable & Wireless Barbados Ltd B$ 72 81 Ordinary Barbados Barbados Cable and Wireless West Indies Ltd GBP 5100 Ordinary England Caribbean 3,4 Monaco Telecom SAM Euro 249 Ordinary Monaco Monaco Joint ventures 3 Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and Tobago Ltd T$ 283 49 Ordinary Trinidad Trinidad and T obago and T obago 2 Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Ltd Rufiya 190 45 Ordinary Maldives Maldives 1 The Group regards this company as a subsidiary because it controls the majority of the Board of Directors through a shareholders agreement.
2 This company has a financial year end of 31 December due to the requirements of the shareholders agreement.
3 This company is audited by a firm other than KPMG and its international member firms.
4 The Group holds an economic interest of 55% in Monaco Telecom SAM via a subsidiary.
Cable and Wireless plc does not have any direct investment in the above subsidiaries and joint ventures.
117 Financial statements Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2008 44 Subsidiaries and joint ventures continued On 18 June 2004 Cable & Wireless acquired 55% of Monaco Telecom, a Monaco based telecommunication service provider, from Vivendi Universal.
Simultaneously with the acquisition, Cable & Wireless transferred legal ownership of 6% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to an unrelated third party.
Cable & Wireless contractually retained voting and economic rights in the shares as part of the arrangement.
In addition, the 6% interest is subject to certain put and call options that, together with the retained voting and economic rights, provide full management control of Monaco Telecom to Cable & Wireless.
Cable & Wireless has also entered into a shareholders agreement with the Principality of Monaco, which contains, among other provisions, a prohibition on either Cable & Wireless or the Principality subject to certain limited exceptions selling their shares in Monaco Telecom for five years, mutual pre-emption rights on transfer of shares and certain other limited rights in favour of the Principality.
The Principality has a put option entitling it to put its 45% shareholding in Monaco Telecom to Cable & Wireless at certain times after 1 January 2008.
The exercise price under the put option is fair market value, taking into account the nature of the minority stake in Monaco Telecom.
Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures, associates and trade investments will be attached to the Companys Annual Return, to be filed with the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales.
45 Financial risk management Treasury policy The Groups treasury operations are managed on the basis of policies and authorities approved by Cable and Wireless plcs Board of Directors.
Day to day management of treasury activities is delegated to the Group Finance Director and the Director of Treasury and Corporate Finance, within specified financial limits for each type of transaction and counterparty.
To the extent that subsidiaries undertake treasury transactions, these are governed by Group policies and delegated authorities.
Material subsidiary positions are monitored by the Central treasury function.
Where appropriate, transactions are reported to the Board.
All subsidiaries are required to report details of their cash and debt positions to Central Treasury on a monthly basis.
The key responsibilities of the Treasury function include funding, investment of surplus cash and the management of interest rate and foreign currency risk.
The majority of the Groups cash resources and borrowings are managed centrally.
The Group uses derivatives including forward foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and options in the management of its foreign currency and interest rate exposures.
The use of these instruments is in accordance with strategies agreed from time to time by the Treasury Management Committee comprising the Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Director of Treasury and Corporate Finance and other senior financial managers as required and subject to policies approved by the Board.
Derivatives are not used for trading or speculative purposes and all derivative transactions and positions are monitored and reported to the Board on a regular basis.
Exchange rate risk The Group trades in several countries and a large portion of its revenue is generated in US dollars or currencies linked to the US dollar.
The Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates in relation to foreign currency payments, dividend income from foreign subsidiaries, reported profits of foreign subsidiaries and the net asset carrying value of foreign investments.
Exchange risk is measured on the basis of forecast cash repatriation from foreign subsidiaries.
Where appropriate the Group manages its exposure to movements in exchange rates on a net basis and uses forward foreign exchange contracts and other derivative and financial instruments to reduce the exposures created where currencies do not naturally offset in the short term.
The Group will undertake hedges to minimise the exposure to individual transactions that create significant foreign exchange exposures for the Group where appropriate.
Where possible, overseas subsidiaries are financed in their domestic currency to minimise the impact of translation of foreign currency denominated borrowings.
At 31 March 2008, the Group had in place a forward exchange contract amounting to US$50 million.
The contract mitigates risks in forecast cash repatriation expected over the near term.
The reported profits of the Group are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year.
Overseas earnings are predominantly in US dollars or currencies linked to the US dollar.
In broad terms, based on the 2007 08 mix of profits, the impact of a unilateral 10% weakening of sterling would have been to increase the operating profit before exceptional items by approximately 23 million and increase total equity by 99 million.
The Group had approximately 39 million of net financial assets denominated in US dollar or US dollar linked currencies at the end of the year.
As part of the overall policy of managing the exposure arising from foreign exchange movements relating to the net carrying value of overseas investments, the Group may, from time to time, elect to match certain foreign currency liabilities against the carrying value of foreign investments.
Currently there are no external foreign currency liabilities matched against the carrying value of foreign investments.
118 45 Financial risk management continued Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to movements in interest rates on its surplus cash balances.
The Treasury function may seek to reduce volatility by fixing a proportion of this interest rate exposure whilst taking account of prevailing market conditions as appropriate.
There were no interest rate derivatives in place as at 31 March 2008.
The majority of the Groups borrowings are at a fixed rate.
A reduction in interest rates would have an unfavourable impact upon the fair value of the Groups fixed rate borrowings.
However, no debt is held for trading purposes and it is intended that it will be kept in place until maturity.
As a result, the exposure to fair value loss has not been modelled.
A one percentage point lowering of interest rates will have a 7 million impact on the income received from the surplus cash balances of the Group and a 1 million impact on the floating rate borrowings of the Group.
The impact on equity is limited to the impact on the income statement.
Credit risk Cash deposits and similar financial instruments give rise to credit risk, which represents the loss that would be recognised if a counterparty failed to perform as contracted.
Management seeks to reduce this risk by ensuring the counterparties to all but a small proportion of the Groups financial instruments are entities rated A1 short-term and or AAlong-term by Standard & Poors or equivalent by Moodys and or Fitch.
The credit rating of these counterparties is monitored on a continuing basis.
The types of instrument used for investment of funds are prescribed in Group treasury policies approved by the Board.
These policies contain limits on exposure to any one counterparty.
Credit risk on receivables is discussed in note 22.
Liquidity risk At 31 March 2008, Cable & Wireless had cash and cash equivalents of 699 million.
These amounts are highly liquid and are a significant component of the Groups overall liquidity and capital resources.
An analysis of the maturity of our financial instruments is contained in notes 21, 22, 24 and 26 to 28.
Approximately 81% of the Groups cash is held centrally and is predominantly invested in short-term bank deposits and AAA-rated money market funds.
During 2006 07 the Group sold at par 40 million of credit linked notes issued by AA-rated banks and referenced to the Companys 200 million bond, which matures in 2012.
Certain foreign subsidiaries operate in jurisdictions which restrict the ability to repatriate cash to the Company.
Where restrictions are severe, local cash balances are excluded from cash and cash equivalents.
