The Merchants Trust PLC Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of i the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby The Merchants Trust PLC will be held at 20 Moorgate, London authorised to be purchased shall be 15,411,738: EC2R 6DA, on 13 May 2008 at 12.00 noon to transact the ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary following business.
Share is 25p: Routine Business iii the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary 1 To receive and adopt the Report of the Directors and the Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of Financial Statements for the year ended 31 January 2008 the middle-market quotations for an Ordinary Share together with the Auditors Report thereon.
taken from the London Stock Exchange Ofcial List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on 2 To declare a final dividend of 5.4p per Ordinary Share.
which the Ordinary Share is purchased or such other amount as may be specified by the London Stock 3 To re-elect Mr P. J. Scott Plummer as a Director.
Exchange from time to time: 4 To re-elect Mr R. A. Bareld as a Director.
iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the 5 To elect Mr M. J. E. McKeon as a Director.
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2008 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 6 To elect Mr H. E. Staunton as a Director.
18 months from the passing of this resolution, unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and 7 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
v the Company may make a contract to purchase Ordinary 8 To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the the Company, to hold ofce until the conclusion of the next expiry of such authority which will or may be executed general meeting at which financial statements are laid wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and before the Company.
may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant to any such contract.
9 To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors.
12 That for the purposes of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Directors be generally and unconditionally Special Business authorised to exercise all the powers of the Company to To consider and if thought t to pass the following resolutions.
allot relevant securities within the meaning of the said Resolution 12 will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution and Section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 8,567,788 Resolutions 10, 11 and 13 as Special Resolutions: provided that: 10 That the regulations contained in the printed document i the authority granted shall expire five years from the produced to the meeting and marked A and for the date upon which this Resolution is passed but may be purposes of identication initialled by the Chairman of the revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting meeting be hereby approved and adopted as the Articles of and may be renewed by the Company in general Association of the Company in substitution for and for the meeting for a further period not exceeding five years: exclusion of all existing Articles of Association.
and 11 That the Company be and is hereby generally and ii the authority shall allow and enable the Directors to unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 make an offer or agreement before the expiry of that of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market authority which would or might require relevant purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Act of securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Ordinary Shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of Ordinary Shares, provided that: any such offer or agreement as if that authority had not expired.
51 The Merchants Trust PLC Notice of Meeting 3.
Persons nominated to receive information rights under Section 146 of the Act 13 That the Directors be empowered in accordance with who have been sent a copy of this notice of meeting are hereby informed, in Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity accordance with Section 149 2 of the Act, that they may have a right under an securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the Act for agreement with the registered member by whom they were nominated to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for this meeting.
If cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 10 as they have no such right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right if sub-section 1 of Section 89 of the Act did not apply to under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise any such allotment provided that: of voting rights.
Nominated persons should contact the registered member by whom they i the power granted shall be limited to the allotment of were nominated in respect of these arrangements.
equity securities wholly for cash up to an aggregate 4.
Shares held in uncerticated form i. e. in CREST may be voted through the nominal amount of 1,285,168: CREST Proxy Voting Service in accordance with the procedures set out in the CREST manual.
ii the power granted shall unless previously revoked or 5.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the renewed expire at the conclusion of the next Annual determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, Members must be entered on the Companys Register of Members at 6p.
m. General Meeting of the Company after the passing of on 11 May 2008 the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time this resolution: and not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the iii the said power shall allow and enable the Directors to entitlement of Members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If, make an offer or agreement before the expiry of that however, the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, power which would or might require equity securities to Members must be entered on the Companys Register of Members at the time which is 48 hours before the time xed for the adjourned Meeting or, if be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in equity securities in pursuance of such offer or that notice.
agreement as if that power had not expired.
Contracts of service are not entered into with the Directors, who hold ofce in accordance with the Articles of Association.
155 Bishopsgate By Order of the Board London EC2M 3AD K. J.
Salt 14 April 2008 Secretary Annual General Meeting Venue Notes: 1.
Members entitled to attend and vote at this Meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote in their stead.
The proxy need not be a Member of the Company.
Duly completed forms of proxy must reach the ofce of the Registrars at least 48 hours before the Meeting.
A form of proxy is provided with the Annual Financial Report.
Completion of the enclosed form of proxy does not preclude a Member from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
52 The Merchants Trust PLC Investor Information & Contact Details asset value are shown daily in The Financial Times and The The Managers Daily Telegraph.
The net asset value of the Ordinary Shares is Allianz Global Investors is the marketing name of RCM UK calculated weekly and published by the London Stock Exchange Limited, Allianz Groups regulated UK fund management Regulatory News Service.
The geographical spread of company, which is authorised and regulated by the Financial investments and ten largest holdings are also published monthly Services Authority.
by the London Stock Exchange Regulatory News Service.
They Allianz Global Investors is one of the largest fund managers in are also available to any enquirer of Allianz Global Investors, the World, and as at 31 December 2007, had combined assets either via Investor Services on 0800 317 573 or on the of 561.9 billion under management.
Through its predecessors, Managers website: www.
it has a heritage of investment trust management expertise in the UK stretching back to the nineteenth century and had Share Prices 1.3 billion assets under management in a range of investment The share prices quoted in the London Stock Exchange Daily trusts as at 31 December 2007.
For CGT indexation purposes, at 31 March 1982 the share price, Results after adjustment for bonus issues, was 48.75p.
Half-year announced in September Full-year announced in March Website Annual Financial Report posted to shareholders in April Further information about the The Merchants Trust PLC is Annual General Meeting held in May available on the Managers website: www.
Ordinary Dividends First quarterly paid in August Association of Investment Companies AIC Second quarterly paid in November The Company is a member of the AIC, the trade body of the Third quarterly paid in February investment trust industry, which provides a range of literature Final usually paid in May including fact sheets and a monthly statistical service.
Copies of these publications can be obtained from the AIC, 9th Floor, Preference Dividends 24 Chiswell Street, London EC1Y 4YY, or at www.
Payable half-yearly on 1 August and 1 February AIC Category: UK Growth and Income.
Payment of Dividends Direct to Bank Accounts Cash dividends will be sent by cheque to first-named Investment Trust Share Plan and ISA shareholders at their registered address together with a tax Following a strategic review of services provided for Investment voucher.
Dividends may be paid directly into shareholders bank Trust investors, Allianz Global Investors as announced that it will accounts.
Details of how this may be arranged can be obtained no longer act as Share Plan manager or PEP ISA manager from from the Registrars, Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham 29 February 2008.
Since that date, however, a share plan and Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
Dividends mandated in this ISA have been available from Alliance Trust Savings ATS.
ATS way are paid via BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Service.
Tax offer a comprehensive range of products and services vouchers will then be sent directly to shareholders at their including Share Plans, ISAs and PEPs as well as pension registered address unless other instructions have been given.
They also invest in and maintain online and telephone-based dealing facilities and online valuations.
Existing Dividend Reinvestment Plan for Ordinary Allianz Global Investors Investment Trust ISA, PEP and Share Shareholders Plan wrapper investors have had the opportunity to transfer at A Dividend Reinvestment Plan is operated by the Companys no cost to ATS.
More information is available from the Allianz Registrars, Capita Registrars.
The Plan offers Ordinary Global Investors Helpline on 08457 127 128 or from the Shareholders the opportunity to use their cash dividend to buy Managers website: www.
co. uk, or after further shares in the Company under a special low-cost dealing 1 March 2008 from Alliance Trust Savings Customer Services arrangement.
Capita will enclose a copy of the Terms and Department on 01382 326323 or e-mail: Conditions and a personalised application form with each future contact@alliancetrust.
Market and Portfolio Information The Companys Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The market price, price range, gross yield and net 53 The Merchants Trust PLC Investor Information & Contact Details Through The Share Portal, shareholders can: Capita Registrars Share Dealing Services View their current and historical shareholding details.
Capita Registrars, the Companys Registrars, operate an on-line and telephone dealing facility for UK resident shareholders with Obtain an indicative share price and valuation.
Stamp duty may also be payable on Amend address details.
View details of dividend payments Capita Registrars have provided the following details of the Apply for dividends to be paid directly to a bank or to current charges for these services: change existing bank details.
On-line Telephone Shareholders can access these services at 1% of the value of the deal 1.5% of the value of the deal www.
com and selecting Share Portal Minimum 20, Minimum 25, Shareholders from the drop down menu, or alternatively via maximum 50 maximum 100 the Portals: Quick Links, and selecting Share Portal.
There is no need to pre-register and there are no forms to ll in.
Shareholders will need to register for a Share Portal Account by The on-line and telephone dealing services allow shareholders completing an on-screen registration form.
An email address is to trade real time at a known price which will be given to you required.
at the time you give your instruction.
Shareholders Enquiries To deal on-line or by telephone you need to supply your Capita Registrars are the Companys registrars and maintain the surname, shareholder reference number, share certicate, full share register.
In the event of queries regarding their holdings of postcode and your date of birth.
Your shareholder reference shares, lost certicates, dividend cheques, registered details, etc.
number can be found on your share certicate where it is shareholders should contact them on 0871 664 0300 calls shown as an investor code.
Please have the appropriate cost 10p per minute plus network charges or, if telephoning documents to hand when you log on or call, as this information from overseas, 44 20 8639 3399.
Changes of name and will be needed before you can buy or sell shares.
address must be notied to the Registrars in writing.
For further information on these services please contact: Any general enquiries about the Company should be directed www.
com on-line dealing or 0871 664 0454 to the Company Secretary, The Merchants Trust PLC, telephone dealing Calls cost 10p per minute plus network 155 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AD.
com Shareholder Portal CREST Proxy Voting The Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, are now able to Shares held in uncerticated form i. e. in CREST may be voted offer shareholders a free on-line service called The Share Portal, through the CREST Proxy Voting Service in accordance with the enabling shareholders to access a comprehensive range of procedures set out in the CREST manual.
54 The Merchants Trust PLC Investor Information & Contact Details Managers and Advisers Fund Manager RCM UK Limited Represented by Simon Gergel, Portfolio Manager, and Simon White, Head of Investment Trusts Secretary and Registered Office Kirsten Salt BA Hons ACIS 155 Bishopsgate London EC2M 3AD Telephone: 020 7065 1513 Email: kirsten.
com Registered Number 28276 Registrars and Transfer Office Capita Registrars The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU Telephone if calling from within the UK : 0871 664 0300 Calls cost 10p per minute plus network charges Telephone if calling from overseas : 44 20 8639 3399 Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com Independent Auditors  LLP Hays Galleria 1 Hays Lane London SE1 2RD Bankers HSBC Bank Barclays Bank Stockbroker JPMorgan Cazenove Legal Advisers Herbert Smith LLP Allianz Global Investors Telephone: 0800 317 573 or www.
55 sterling greenaways 98818 Allianz Global Investors Phone 0800 317 573 Fax 020 7638 3508 www.
co. uk ATTENDANCE CARD THE MERCHANTS TRUST PLC - ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTES ON HOW TO COMPLETE THE PROXY FORM If you are a registered Ordinary Shareholder and you are unable to attend the Meeting you may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote on your behalf.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the company in accordance with section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the registered shareholder who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
To appoint as a proxy a person other than the Chairman of the meeting insert the full name in the space provided.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company, but must attend the meeting in order to represent you.
You can also To be held at: 20 Moorgate, London, EC2R 6DA appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is If you wish to attend this meeting in your capacity as a holder of Ordinary Shares, please sign this appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different card and on arrival hand it to the Companys registrars.
This will facilitate entry to the meeting.
share or shares held by you.
The following options are available: Signature of Barcode: a To appoint the Chairman as your sole proxy in person attending respect of all your shares, simply fill in any voting instructions in the appropriate box and sign and date Investor Code: the Form of Proxy.
PTO FORM OF PROXY THE MERCHANTS TRUST PLC - ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Bar Code Investor Code I We being a member of the company hereby appoint the Chairman of the meeting or see note 1 Event Code as my our proxy to vote on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the company to be held at 12 noon on Tuesday 13 May 2008 and at any adjournment thereof.
I have indicated with a X how I we wish my our votes to be cast on the following resolutions: ORDINARY BUSINESS SPECIAL BUSINESS Please mark X to indicate how you wish to vote Please mark X to indicate how you wish to vote 1 To receive and adopt the Annual Financial Report 10 To approve and adopt new Articles of Association X X X X X X 11 To authorise the Company to make market 2 To declare a final dividend X X X X X X purchases of Ordinary Shares 3 To re-elect Mr PJ Scott Plummer as a Director 12 To authorise the Directors to allot Shares X X X X X X 4 To re-elect Mr RA Barfield as a Director 13 To disapply pre-emption rights X X X X X X 5 To elect Mr MJE McKeon as a Director X X X To assist with arrangements, if you intend 6 To elect Mr HE Staunton as a Director X X X attending the meeting in person please place X a X in the box opposite 7 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report X X X 8 To re-appoint  LLP X X X as Auditors 9 To authorise the Directors to determine X X X the remuneration of the Auditors If you prefer, you may return the proxy form to the Registrar in an envelope addressed to FREEPOST RLYX-GZTU-KRRG, Capita Registrars Proxies, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 9ZA.
Signature Date sterling greenaways 98819 For Against Vote Withheld For Against Vote Withheld b To appoint a person other than the Chairman as your 5.
The Form of Proxy is for use only in respect of the sole proxy in respect of all your shares, delete the shareholder account specified and should not be amended words the Chairman of the meeting or and insert or submitted in respect of a different account.
the name and address of your proxy in the spaces 6.
The Vote Withheld option is to enable you to abstain on provided.
Then fill in any voting instructions in the any particular resolution.
Such a vote is not a vote in law appropriate box and sign and date the Form of Proxy.
and will not be counted in the votes For and Against a c To appoint more than one proxy, you may photocopy resolution.
Please indicate the proxy holders name and 7.
Shares held in uncertified form i. e. in CREST may be the number of shares in relation to which they are voted through the CREST Proxy Voting Service in authorised to act as your proxy which, in aggregate, accordance with the procedures set out in the CREST should not exceed the number of shares held by you.
Please also indicate if the proxy instruction is one of 8.
Completion and return of the Form of Proxy will not multiple instructions being given.
If you wish to preclude you from attending and voting in person at the appoint the Chairman as one of your multiple proxies, Meeting should you subsequently decide to do so.
simply write the Chairman of the Meeting.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in 9.
If you prefer, you may return the proxy form to the the same envelope.
Registrar in an envelope addressed to FREEPOST RLYXGZTU-KRRG, Capita Registrars Proxies, 34 Beckenham 2.
Unless otherwise indicated the proxy will vote as he thinks Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 9ZA.
fit or, at his discretion, abstain from voting.
They will also vote or abstain at their discretion on any other business which may be lawfully put before the meeting.
The Form of Proxy below must arrive at Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU during usual business hours accompanied by any Power of Attorney under which it is executed if applicable no later than 12 noon on Sunday 11 May 2008.
A corporation must execute the Form of Proxy under either its common seal or the hand of a duly authorised officer or attorney.
Business Reply Licence Number MB122 Capita Registrars Proxy Department PO Box 25 The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent BR3 4BR
