The Merchants Trust PLC Statement of Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 January 2008 1.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modied to include the revaluation of investments, and in accordance with the United Kingdom law, United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP and the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies SORP revised in December 2005 by the Association of Investment Companies.
In order better to reect the activities of an investment trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Income Statement between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the Income Statement.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment company under section 266 of the Companies Act 1985, net capital returns may not be distributed by way of dividend.
Revenue Dividends on equity shares are accounted for on an ex-dividend basis.
UK dividends are shown net of tax credits.
Special dividends are recognised on an ex-dividend basis and treated as a capital or revenue item depending on the facts and circumstances of each dividend.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the equivalent of the cash dividend is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend is recognised in capital reserves.
Deposit interest receivable and stocklending fees are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Underwriting commission is recognised when the issue underwritten closes.
Investment management fees and administrative expenses The investment management fee is calculated on the basis set out in Note 2 to the financial statements and is charged to capital and revenue in the ratio 65:35 to reect the Boards investment policy and prospective split of capital and income returns.
Other administrative expenses are charged in full to revenue, except handling charges which are charged to capital.
All expenses are recognised on an accrual basis.
Valuation As the Companys business is investing in financial assets with a view to proting from their total return in the form of increases in fair value, investments are designated as held at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition in accordance with FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The Company manages and evaluates the performance of these investments on a fair value basis in accordance with its investment strategy, and information about the investments is provided on this basis to the Board of Directors.
Investments held at fair value through profit and loss are initially recognised at fair value.
After initial recognition, these continue to be measured at fair value, which for quoted investments is either the bid price or the last traded price depending on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is listed.
The unrealised Capital Reserve reects differences between fair value and book cost.
Net gains and losses on the realisation of investments are recognised in the capital column of the Income Statement and are taken to the realised Capital Reserve.
Finance costs In accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, long term borrowings are stated at the amount of net proceeds on issue plus accrued finance costs to date.
Finance costs are calculated over the term of the debt on the effective interest rate basis.
Where debt is issued at a premium, the premium is amortised over the term of the debt on the effective interest rate basis.
35 The Merchants Trust PLC Statement of Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 January 2008 Finance costs net of amortised premiums are charged to capital and revenue in the ratio 65:35 to reect the Boards investment policy and prospective split of capital and revenue returns.
Dividends payable on the 3.65% Cumulative Preference Stock are classied as an interest expense and are charged in full to revenue.
Taxation Where expenses are allocated between capital and revenue, any tax relief obtained in respect of those expenses is allocated between capital and revenue on the marginal basis using the Companys effective rate of Corporation tax for the accounting period.
Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred.
Timing differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements.
A deferred tax asset is recognised when it is more likely than not that the asset will be recoverable.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the rate of Corporation tax that is expected to apply when the timing differences are expected to reverse.
Foreign currency In accordance with FRS 23 The effect of changes in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates, the Company is required to nominate a functional currency, being the currency in which the Company predominately operates.
The functional and reporting currency is pound sterling, reecting the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
profits and losses thereon are recognised in Capital Reserves.
Dividends In accordance with FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, the final dividend payable on Ordinary Shares is recognised as a liability when approved by shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised only when paid.
Preference Stock Following the introduction of FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, the 3.65% Cumulative Preference Stock is classied as a liability as the rights of the stockholders to receive dividend payments are not calculated by reference to the Companys profits.
Shares repurchased and subsequently cancelled Share Capital is reduced by the nominal value of the shares repurchased, and the Capital Redemption Reserve is correspondingly increased in accordance with Section 170 Companies Act 1985.
The full cost of the repurchase is charged to the realised Capital Reserve.
FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures introduces additional disclosures relating to financial instruments.
This standard does not have any impact on the classication and or valuation of the Companys financial instruments.
The additional disclosures provided in accordance with the requirements of the standard are set out in Note 20 to the financial statements.
