APPENDIX TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting The provisions of the existing Articles dealing Summary of the proposed material Age of directors on appointment with the convening of general meetings and changes to the Articles of Association The current Articles contain a provision annual general meetings and the length of of the Company limiting the age at which a director can be notice required to convene such meetings appointed.
Such a provision could now The principal changes which would arise are amended in the New Articles to conform fall foul of the Employment Equality Age from the adoption of the New Articles are to the new provisions of the 2006 Act.
In Regulations 2006 and have accordingly, set out below.
References to Article numbers particular, general meetings to consider been removed from the New Articles.
are references to a particular Article in the special resolutions can now be convened New Articles.
on 14 clear days notice whereas previously Con icts of interest 21 clear days notice was required.
The Electronic and web communications The New Articles shall, at Article 120A, retain annual general meeting of the Company still the provisions of the existing Articles in relation The New Articles allow communications to requires 21 clear days notice.
to directors con icts of interest up to October members in electronic format and permit 2008.
However, with effect from the coming the Company to take advantage of the Quorum into force of sections 175 to 177 and 182 provisions in the 2006 Act relating to The existing Articles provide that two to 185 of the 2006 Act, these provisions website communications.
members present in person or by proxy and will cease to apply and will be replaced by Various provisions are included in the entitled to vote forms the quorum.
Under the Article 120B to re ect the new provisions of New Articles to allow the Company 2006 Act the quorum for a meeting can the 2006 Act in relation to directors con icts to communicate with shareholders be two qualifying persons which includes of interests which are expected to come into via electronic means and to give the corporate representatives.
The New Articles force on 1 October 2008. directors the discretion to use electronic adopt these new provisions and corporate The 2006 Act sets out directors general communications to distribute notices of representatives can now be counted to form duties which largely codify the existing law meetings, annual reports, accounts and the quorum of a meeting of the Company.
Under the 2006 summary financial statements.
Proxies Act, from 1 October 2008, a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, Form of resolutions and convening Under the 2006 Act, proxies are entitled a direct or indirect interest that con icts, or to vote on a show of hands, whereas meetings may con ict, with the Companys interests.
under the existing Articles proxies are only The existing Articles contain provisions The requirement is very broad and could entitled to vote on a poll.
The time limits referring to extraordinary resolutions and apply, for example, if a director becomes for the appointment of proxies have also extraordinary general meetings.
These a director of another company, an advisor been altered by the 2006 Act so weekends concepts have been abolished under the to the Company or a trustee of another and bank holidays can be excluded for 2006 Act with effect from 1 October 2007. organisation.
The 2006 Act allows directors the purposes of the timing for delivery of Meetings of shareholders other than annual of public companies to authorise con icts proxies.
Multiple proxies may be appointed general meetings are referred to simply as and potential con icts, where appropriate, provided that each proxy is appointed to general meetings.
Any resolution requiring insofar as the articles of association contain exercise the rights attached to different a 75 per cent.
majority will be a special a provision to this effect.
The 2006 Act also shares held by the shareholder.
allows articles to contain other provisions for Articles re ect these changes.
The current Articles enable members to act dealing with directors con icts of interest to by written resolution.
Under the 2006 Act, avoid a breach of duty.
Corporate representatives with effect from 1 October 2007, public The 2006 Act permits a corporate There are safeguards in the New Articles companies can no longer pass written shareholder to appoint multiple corporate which will apply when directors decide resolutions.
These provisions have therefore representatives who can attend, speak, vote whether to authorise a con ict or potential been removed in the New Articles.
and count towards a quorum at any general con ict.
First, only directors who have no meeting.
However, where multiple corporate interest in the matter being considered will representatives exercise votes in different be able to take the relevant decision, and ways, the 2006 Act provides that no votes second, in taking the decision, the directors have been exercised.
The New Articles must act in a way they consider, in good re ect the provisions in the 2006 Act.
faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 45 APPENDIX TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING to pass an ordinary resolution in advance It is also proposed that the New Articles Requirements for registration of authorising it to do so.
The New Articles contain provisions relating to con dential transfer and refusal to transfer re ect the provisions of the 2006 Act.
information, attendance at board meetings The existing Articles provide that the and the availability of board papers to Directors may refuse to register a transfer protect a director being in breach of duty if Distribution of assets otherwise than of any certi cated share in their absolute a con ict of interest or a potential con ict of in cash discretion and without assigning any reason interest arises.
The current Articles contain provisions for the refusal.
The 2006 Act introduces a dealing with the distribution of assets in new requirement for companies to register It is proposed that the New Articles will, kind in the event of the Company going transfers or to provide the transferee with with effect from 1 October 2008, contain into liquidation.
These provisions have reasons for refusal as soon as possible.
The provisions, in Article 120B, giving the been removed in the New Articles on the New Articles re ect this new requirement.
directors authority to approve situations grounds that a provision about the powers involving directors con icts of interest and to of liquidators is really a matter for insolvency allow con icts of interest to be dealt with by CREST and the Uncerti cated law rather than the articles of a company the Board.
Securities Regulations and the Insolvency Act 1986 confers The New Articles re ect the Uncerti cated powers on the liquidator which would Stock Securities Regulations 2001 and the 2006 enable it to do what is envisaged by the Act provisions by permitting shareholders The existing Articles provide that the existing Articles anyway.
holding Uncerti cated shares to appoint, Company may by ordinary resolution instruct, amend and revoke proxy convert any fully paid shares into stock.
The Register of members appointments using the CREST system.
2006 Act abolishes the power to convert The current Articles provide that the register shares into stock but allows a company of members shall not be closed for more that currently has stock to re-convert this Articles that duplicate statutory than 30 days in any year.
The 2006 Act stock back into paid up shares of any provisions repeals the provisions of the 1985 Act nominal value by means of an ordinary Certain other provisions in the current which allow a company to close the register resolution.
The 2006 Act removes the Articles which replicate provisions contained of members with the result that the register current requirement for a companys articles in companies legislation are amended to must be open for inspection at all times.
The to permit re-conversion, but a company bring them into line with the 2006 Act.
New Articles re ect this provision.
wishing to re-convert its stock will still have 46 ANNUAL REPORT 2008
