NOTES TO ACCOUNTS 20 Contingent Liabilities, Guarantees and Financial Commitments At 30 April 2008 the Company had a contingent liability of 13,500,000 2007 13,500,000 in respect of a subscription agreement relating to participating loan notes which expire on 31 December 2010.
21 Recoverable VAT In 2004 the Association of Investment Companies the AIC, together with JPMorgan Claverhouse Investment Trust, launched a case against HM Revenue & Customs HMRC to challenge whether Value Added Tax VAT should be charged on investment management fees.
In June 2007 the European Court of Justice found in favour of the AIC.
Since then HMRC has accepted that management fees should be exempt from VAT and has acknowledged its liability to pay claims in respect of VAT borne by investment companies.
No VAT has been charged on management fees since July 2007 and the Managers have submitted repayment claims to HMRC for the periods from 2000 to 2007 and from 1990 to 1996.
The Board is satis ed that at least 1,164,000 is certain to be recovered by the Managers on behalf of the Company in respect of the period 2000 to 2007 and therefore this amount has been recognised in the current year.
The Board, however, considers that there are too many uncertainties to allow any reasonable estimate of any further amounts potentially recoverable over both periods.
The Company will receive from the Managers any interest paid by HMRC on the amounts eventually recovered.
22 Related Party Transactions The Directors fees for the year are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 24.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
During the year no Director was interested in any contract or other matter requiring disclosure under section 232 of the Companies Act 1985 other than as disclosed in note 3.
The details of the management fee are set out in note 3, and the management fee due to Baillie Gifford as at 30 April 2008 is disclosed in note 11.
23 Financial Instruments As an investment trust, the Company invests in equities and makes other investments so as to secure its investment objective of capital growth.
The Company borrows money when the Board and Managers have suf cient conviction that the assets funded by borrowed monies will generate a return in excess of the cost of borrowing.
In pursuing its investment objective, the Company is exposed to a variety of risks that cause short term variation in the Companys net assets and could result in either a reduction in the Companys net assets or a reduction in the pro ts available for dividend.
These risks are categorised here as market risk comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
The Board monitors closely the Companys exposures to these risks but does so in order to reduce the likelihood of a permanent reduction in the Companys net assets rather than to minimise the short term volatility.
The risk management policies and procedures outlined in this note have not changed substantially from the previous accounting period.
Market Risk The fair value or future cash ows of a financial instrument or other investment held by the Company may uctuate because of changes in market prices.
This market risk comprises three elements currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing these risks and the Companys Investment Manager both assesses the exposure to market risk when making individual investment decisions and monitors the overall level of market risk across the investment portfolio on an ongoing basis.
Details of the Companys investment portfolio are shown in note 9.
Details of derivative financial instruments outstanding at the balance sheet date are shown on page 42.
Currency Risk Certain of the Companys assets, liabilities and income are denominated in currencies other than sterling the Companys functional currency and that in which it reports its results.
Consequently, movements in exchange rates may affect the sterling value of those items.
The Investment Manager monitors the Companys exposure to foreign currencies and reports to the Board on a regular basis.
The Investment Manager assesses the risk to the Company of the foreign currency exposure by considering the effect on the Companys net asset value and income of a movement in the rates of exchange to which the Companys assets, liabilities, income and expenses are exposed.
However, the currency in which a companys share price is quoted is not necessarily the one in which it earns its pro ts.
The movement in exchange rates on overseas earnings may have a more signi cant impact upon a companys valuation than a simple translation of the currency in which the share price of the company is quoted.
Foreign currency borrowings and forward currency contracts are used periodically to limit the Companys exposure to anticipated future changes in exchange rates which might otherwise adversely affect the value of the portfolio of investments.
Where appropriate, they are used also to achieve the portfolio characteristics that assist the Company in meeting its investment objectives.
