NOTES TO ACCOUNTS 1 Principal Accounting Policies A summary of the principal accounting c Derivatives f Expenses policies, which are unchanged from the prior The Company may use derivatives for the All expenses are accounted for on an accruals year and have been applied consistently, are purpose of ef cient portfolio management basis and are charged through the revenue set out below.
including reducing, transferring or eliminating account except where they relate directly to risk in its investments and protection against the acquisition or disposal of an investment, in a Basis of Accounting currency risk and to achieve capital growth.
which case they are added to the cost of the The accounts are prepared under the historical investment or deducted from the sale proceeds.
cost convention, except for the revaluation of Such instruments are recognised on the date xed asset investments and derivatives which of the contract that creates the Companys g Long Term Borrowings and Finance are recorded at fair value.
This is on the obligation to pay or receive cash ows and Costs assumption that approval as an investment trust are measured as financial assets or liabilities at Long term borrowings are carried in the will continue to be granted.
fair value at subsequent reporting dates, while balance sheet at amortised cost, representing the relevant contracts remain open.
The fair the cumulative amount of net proceeds after The accounts have been prepared in accordance value is determined by reference to the open issue, plus accrued finance costs.
The finance with The Companies Act 1985, applicable UK market value of the contract.
costs of such borrowings are allocated to the accounting standards and with the Statement of revenue account at a constant rate on the Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Where the investment rationale for the use of carrying amount.
Issue costs are written off at Investment Trust Companies issued in January derivatives is to hedge speci c risks pertaining a constant rate over the life of the borrowings.
2003, revised in 2005. to the Companys portfolio composition, hedge Gains and losses on the repurchase or early accounting will only be adopted where the In order to better re ect the activities of the settlement of debt is wholly charged to capital.
derivative instrument relates speci cally to trust and in accordance with guidance issued a single item, or group of items, of equal h Deferred Taxation by the AIC, supplementary information which and opposite financial exposure, and where Deferred taxation is provided on all timing analyses the pro t and loss account between the derivative instrument has been explicitly differences which have originated but not items of a revenue and capital nature has been designated as a hedge of such item s at reversed by the balance sheet date, calculated presented in the Income Statement.
the date of initial recognition.
In all other at the current tax rates relevant to the bene t circumstances changes in the fair value Financial assets and financial liabilities are or liability.
Deferred tax assets are recognised of derivative instruments are recognised recognised in the Companys balance sheet only to the extent that it is more likely than not immediately in the Income Statement as capital when it becomes a party to the contractual that there will be taxable pro ts from which or revenue as appropriate.
underlying timing differences can be deducted.
d Cash and cash equivalents The Directors consider the Companys i Dividend distributions functional currency to be sterling as the Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in Interim dividends are recognised in the period Companys shareholders are predominantly hand, deposits held at call with banks and in which they are paid and final dividends based in the UK and the Company is subject other short term highly liquid investments with are recognised in the period in which the to the UKs regulatory environment.
original maturities of three months or less.
dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
b Investments e Income Investment purchases and sales are recognised i Income from equity investments, is brought j Foreign Currencies on a trade date basis.
Expenses incidental to into account on the date on which the Transactions involving foreign currencies are acquisition are included in purchase cost and investments are quoted ex-dividend or, converted at the rate ruling at the time of the expenses incidental to sale are deducted from where no ex-dividend date is quoted, transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities proceeds of sale.
when the Companys right to receive and xed asset investment in foreign currencies payment is established.
Equity investment are translated at the closing rates of exchange Investments are designated as held at fair value income includes distributions from at the balance sheet date.
Forward foreign through pro t or loss on initial recognition and Collective Investment Schemes other than exchange contracts are valued at the forward are measured at subsequent reporting dates at those that relate to equalisation, which are rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
or loss arising from a change in exchange The fair value of listed investments is rate subsequent to the date of the transaction ii Interest from xed interest securities bid value, or in the case of FTSE 100 is included as an exchange gain or loss in including the zero coupon element of the constituents, at last traded prices issued by the Income Statement as capital or revenue as swap rate linked note is recognised on an the London Stock Exchange.
Listed investments include Open Ended k Capital Reserves iii Unfranked investment income and overseas Investment Companies OEICs authorised dividends include the taxes deducted at i Capital Reserve Realised: in the UK: these are valued at closing prices source.
Gains and losses on realisation of and are classi ed in the list of investments investments and realised exchange according to the principal geographical area iv Franked investment income is stated net of differences of a capital nature are dealt of the underlying holdings.
Purchases of the The fair value of unlisted investments uses Companys own shares for cancellation are v Underwriting commission and interest valuation techniques, determined by the also funded from this reserve.
receivable on deposits are recognised on Directors, based upon latest dealing prices, an accruals basis.
ii Capital Reserve Unrealised: stockbroker valuations, net asset values and Unrealised appreciation depreciation vi If scrip is taken in lieu of dividends in other information, as appropriate.
represents the amount by which the market cash, the net amount of the cash dividend value of assets and liabilities differs from their declared is credited to the revenue account.
book value and is dealt with in this reserve.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised as capital.
