FURTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Further Shareholder Information How to Invest Analysis of Shareholders The Companys shares are traded on At 30 April 2008 At 30 April 2007 the London Stock Exchange.
They can Number % Number % be bought by placing an order with a stockbroker, by asking a professional adviser Institutions 108,504,306 41.1 117,467,108 41.9 to do so, or through the Baillie Gifford Intermediaries 108,353,283 41.0 109,836,649 39.1 savings vehicles see page 48 for details.
Individuals 27,545,707 10.4 31,434,462 11.2 If you are interested in investing directly in Baillie Gifford Share Plan ISA 16,662,330 6.3 16,601,598 5.9 Monks, you can do so online.
There are Marketmakers 3,114,233 1.2 5,312,876 1.9 a number of companies offering real time 264,179,859 100.0 280,652,693 100.0 online dealing services nd out more by visiting the investment trust pages at www.
By quoting the reference number on your Electronic Proxy Voting Sources of Further Information on share certi cate you can also check your If you hold stock in your own name you the Company holding on the Registrars web site at can choose to vote by returning proxies The price of shares is quoted daily in the www-uk.
com investor electronically at Financial Times and can also be found on www-uk.
com investor proxy They also offer a free, secure share the Baillie Gifford website at management website service which allows If you have any questions about this service www.
com, Trustnet at you to: please contact Computershare on 0870 www.
co. uk and on other financial 707 1170. websites.
Company factsheets are also view your share portfolio and see the latest available on the Baillie Gifford website and market price of your shares: CREST Proxy Voting are updated monthly.
These are available calculate the total market price of each from Baillie Gifford on request.
If you are a user of the CREST system shareholding: including a CREST Personal Member, Key Dates view price histories and trading graphs: you may appoint one or more proxies or give an instruction to a proxy by having an Ordinary shareholders normally receive two update bank mandates and change appropriate CREST message transmitted.
dividends in respect of each financial year.
address details: To appoint a proxy or to give an instruction An interim dividend is paid in January and a use online dealing services: and to a proxy whether previously appointed final dividend is paid in August.
The AGM or otherwise via the CREST system, the is normally held at the end of July or start of pay dividends directly into your overseas CREST message must be received by the August.
bank account in your chosen local currency.
issuers agent ID number 3RA50 not later To take advantage of this service, please log than 48 hours before the time appointed Capital Gains Tax in at www-uk.
com investor for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, For Capital Gains Tax indexation purposes, and enter your Shareholder Reference Number the time of receipt will be taken to be the market value of an ordinary share in and Company Code this information can be the time as determined by the timestamp the Company as at 31 March 1982 as found on the last dividend voucher or your generated by the CREST system from which adjusted for the five for one share split in July share certi cate.
the issuers agent is able to retrieve the 2001 was 14.1p.
CREST Personal Members or other Divided Reinvestment Plan CREST sponsored members should contact Share Register Enquiries their CREST sponsors for assistance with Computershare operate a Dividend Computershare Investor Services PLC appointing proxies via CREST.
For further Reinvestment Plan which can be used to maintains the share register on behalf of the information on CREST procedures, limitations buy additional shares instead of receiving Company.
In the event of queries regarding and systems timings, please refer to the your dividend via cheque or into your bank shares registered in your own name, please CREST Manual.
The Company may treat as account.
For further information log in to contact the Registrars on 0870 707 1170. invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST www-uk.
com investor and in the circumstances set out in Regulation This helpline also offers an automated selffollow the instructions or telephone 0870 35 5 a of the Uncerti cated Securities service functionality available 24 hours a 707 1694.
Computershare Investor day, 7 days a week which allows you to: Services PLC is authorised and regulated by hear the latest share price: the Financial Services Authority.
con rm your current share holding balance: Where this has been received in a country where the provision of such a service would con rm your payment history: and be contrary to local laws or regulations, this order Change of Address, Dividend Bank should be treated as information only.
Mandate and Stock Transfer forms.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 47 FURTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Gifford and Monks Directors may hold shares fall in value, any borrowings will increase Monks is an investment trust.
in Monks and may buy or sell such shares the amount of this loss.
Investment trusts offer investors the from time to time, subject to Baillie Giffords following: Monks can buy back and cancel its own personal account dealing rules.
participation in a diversi ed portfolio of shares.
The risks from borrowing, referred to shares: above, are increased when the Company Risks buys back and cancels its shares.
constant supervision by experienced Past performance is not a guide to future professional managers: and Monks can make use of derivatives.
derivatives are used to compensate for the Company is free from capital gains Monks is listed on the stock market.
As a possible unfavourable currency and market tax on capital pro ts realised within its result, the value of the shares, and any movements there is a risk that potential gains portfolio although investors are still liable income from those shares, is not guaranteed may be restricted in a rising market.
Where for capital gains tax on pro ts when and could go down as well as up.
You may derivatives are used for investment purposes selling their investment.
not get back the amount you invested.
You there could be a high risk of loss to the should view your investment as long term.
These accounts have been approved by the Company due to the large and quick price Directors of The Monks Investment Trust PLC.
As Monks invests in overseas securities, Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited changes in the rates of exchange may also The generation of income is less important is the ISA Manager of the Baillie Gifford cause the value of your investment and any than Monks aim of achieving capital Investment Trust ISA, and the Manager of the income it may pay to go down or up.
You should not expect a signi cant, Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan or steady, annual income from the shares.
Monks can borrow money to make further and Childrens Savings Plan.
Baillie Gifford investments sometimes known as gearing.
Savings Management Limited is wholly owned Tax rates and reliefs, as well as the tax The risk is that when this money is repaid by by Baillie Gifford & Co.
Both are authorised treatment of ISAs, may change at any time in the Company, the value of the investments and regulated by the Financial Services the future.
The value of any tax bene ts will may not be enough to cover the borrowing Authority.
Baillie Gifford only provides depend on your individual circumstances.
and interest costs, and the Company will information about its products and does not make a loss.
If the Companys investments provide investment advice.
The staff of Baillie Baillie Gifford Savings Vehicles Monks shares are traded on the London Online Management Service Further Information Stock Exchange.
They can be bought You can now also open and manage your Client Relations Team through a stockbroker, by asking a Share Plan and or ISA online, through our Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited professional adviser to do so, or through the secure Online Management Service OMS Calton Square following Baillie Gifford savings vehicles.
which can be accessed through the Baillie 1 Greenside Row Gifford website at www.
EDINBURGH EH1 3AN Baillie Giffords Investment OMS enables you to apply for, open and Tel: 0800 027 0133 Trust Share Plan administer a Baillie Gifford Investment Trust We may record your call You can invest from 250 or from 30 per Share Plan or Investment Trust ISA online.
The plan is designed to be a costAs well as being able to view the details E-mail: trustenquiries@bailliegifford.
com effective way of saving on a regular or lump of your plan online, the service also allows Website: www.
you to: Fax: 0131 275 3955 get current valuations: Baillie Giffords Investment Trust ISA make lump sum investments: You can invest in a tax ef cient way by switch between investment trusts except investing a minimum of 2,000 or from where there is more than one holder : 100 per month or by transferring an ISA set up a direct debit to make regular with a value of at least 2,000 from your investments: and existing manager.
Baillie Giffords Childrens Savings Plan A cost-effective plan tailored especially to meet the requirements to save for children.
You can invest a minimum of 250 or from 30 per month.
48 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Directors Registered Of ce Registrar Independent Auditors Chairman: Computershare Computershare  LLP JGD Ferguson Investor Services PLC Investor Services PLC Chartered Accountants and 2nd Floor PO Box 82 Registered Auditors CC Ferguson Vintners Place The Pavilions Erskine House EM Harley 68 Upper Thames Bridgwater Road PO Box 90 DCP McDougall Street Bristol BS99 7NH 6873 Queen Street London EC4V 3BJ Tel: 0870 707 1170 Edinburgh EH2 4NH Company registration No.
236964 Managers and Secretaries Baillie Gifford & Co Calton Square 1 Greenside Row Edinburgh EH1 3AN Tel: 0131 275 2000 Website: www.
