DIRECTORS REPORT AND STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Sundays and public holidays excepted auditors are unaware and the Directors have Articles of Association from the date of the notice of the AGM the taken all the steps that they might reasonably Over the past year, and since the Articles of Notice until the conclusion of the Annual be expected to have taken as Directors in Association the Articles of the Company General Meeting.
A copy of the New Articles order to make themselves aware of any were last updated in 2007, company law will also be available for inspection at the relevant audit information and to establish in the United Kingdom has undergone major place of the Annual General Meeting for 15 that the Companys auditors are aware of reform through the coming into force of parts minutes before and during the meeting.
of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 A summary of the material changes proposed Act.
Accordingly, the Board considers it Independent Auditors to be brought about by the adoption of the prudent to replace the Companys existing Resolutions to reappoint New Articles is set out in the Appendix to the Articles of Association with new articles  LLP as independent Notice on pages 45 and 46.
References to which take account of these developments auditors to the Company and to authorise Article numbers are references to a particular the New Articles.
the Directors to determine their remuneration Article in the New Articles.
The 2006 Act is being brought into force will be proposed at the AGM.
in stages, beginning in January 2007, with Creditor Payment Policy full implementation scheduled by October Recommendation It is the Companys payment policy to obtain 2009.
At this years AGM, the Company the best terms for all business.
In general, The Directors unanimously recommend proposes to adopt provisions which re ect the Company agrees with its suppliers the you vote in favour of the resolutions to be changes in the law brought about by the terms on which business will take place and proposed at the Annual General Meeting as 2006 Act in respect of, amongst other it is its policy to abide by these terms.
The it is their view that the resolutions are in the things, electronic communications, notice Company had no trade creditors at either best interests of shareholders as a whole.
periods for meetings, proxy voting and 30 April 2007 or 30 April 2008. directors con icts of interest.
By order of the Board A copy of the New Articles will be available Baillie Gifford & Co Disclosure of Information to Auditors for inspection at the of ces of Baillie Gifford Managers and Secretaries The Directors con rm that so far as each of & Co, Level 5, Ivybridge House, 15 Adam 6 June 2008 the Directors is aware there is no relevant Street, London, WC2N 6AW during normal audit information of which the Companys business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing state whether applicable UK accounting Under applicable law and regulations, the the Annual Report and the financial standards have been followed, subject Directors are also responsible for preparing statements in accordance with applicable to any material departures disclosed and a Directors Report including Business law and regulations.
explained in the financial statements: and Review, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that Company law requires the Directors to prepare the financial statements on comply with that law and those regulations.
prepare financial statements for each the going concern basis unless it is financial year.
Under that law they have inappropriate to presume that the We con rm that to the best of our elected to prepare the financial statements Company will continue in business in knowledge: in accordance with applicable law and which case there should be supporting the financial statements, prepared in UK Accounting Standards UK Generally assumptions or quali cations as necessary.
accordance with the applicable accounting Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Directors con rm that they have complied standards, give a true and fair view of the The financial statements are required by law with the above requirements in preparing the assets, liabilities, financial position and to give a true and fair view of the state of financial statements.
pro t or loss of the Company: and affairs of the Company and of the pro t or The Directors are responsible for keeping the Annual Report includes a fair view loss of the Company for that period.
proper accounting records which disclose with of the development and performance In preparing those financial statements, the reasonable accuracy at any time the financial of the business and the position of the Directors are required to: position of the Company and to enable them Company, together with a description of to ensure that the financial statements comply the principal risks and uncertainties that select suitable accounting policies and with the Companies Act.
They have general the Company faces.
then apply them consistently: responsibility for taking such steps as are By order of the Board make judgements and estimates that are reasonably open to them to safeguard the JGD FERGUSON reasonable and prudent: assets of the Company and to prevent and 6 June 2008 detect fraud and other irregularities.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23
