S a v o y S t r e e t Carting la ne B e d f o r d S t r e e t Adam St Robert St Agar St rk Yo Buildings Buck St Villiers St Charing Cross NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice of Annual General Meeting The Annual General Notice is hereby given that the Meeting of the seventy-ninth Annual General Meeting of Company will be The Monks Investment Trust PLC will be held Vaudeville Th held at the RSA, at the RSA, 8 John Adam Street, London 8 John Adam Street, London WC2N 6EZ WC2N 6EZ on Tuesday, 5 August 2008, Adelphi Th on 5 August 2008 at at 11.00 am for the following purposes: 11.00 am.
RSA If you have any Ordinary Business queries as to how to To consider and, if thought t, pass the vote or how to attend following resolutions as Ordinary Resolutions.
the meeting, please call us on 1.
To receive and adopt the Accounts of the 0800 027 0133.
Company for the year to 30 April 2008 Baillie Gifford may with the Reports of the Directors and of the Cleopatras record your call.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year to 30 April 2008.
To re-elect Mr JGD Ferguson as a Director.
To re-elect Mr DCP McDougall as a Special Business of the middle market Director.
That the draft regulations produced to quotations as derived from the meeting and, for the purposes of 6.
To reappoint  LLP the Daily Of cial List of the identi cation, initialled by the Chairman as Independent Auditors.
London Stock Exchange of the meeting be adopted as the for the Shares for the five 7.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Articles of Association of the Company business days immediately remuneration of the Independent Auditors.
in substitution for, and to the entire preceding the date of exclusion of, the existing Articles of To consider and, if thought t, pass the purchase: and Association of the Company.
following resolutions as Special Resolutions: ii the higher of the last By order of the Board 8.
That, in substitution for any existing independent bid and the authority under section 166 of the highest current independent Baillie Gifford & Co Companies Act 1985 the Act, but bid on the London Stock Managers and Secretaries without prejudice to the exercise of Exchange: and 20 June 2008 any such authority prior to the date d unless previously varied, revoked hereof, the Company be authorised, or renewed by the Company in in accordance with section 166 of the general meeting, the authority Act, to make market purchases within hereby conferred shall expire the meaning of section 163 3 of the at the conclusion of the Annual Act of ordinary shares of 5p each in General Meeting of the Company the capital of the Company Shares, to be held in respect of the year provided that: ending 30 April 2009, save a the maximum aggregate number that the Company may, prior to of Shares hereby authorised to such expiry, enter into a contract be purchased shall be 14.99% to purchase Shares under such of the issued ordinary share authority which will or might be capital on the date on which this completed or executed wholly resolution is passed: or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a b the minimum price which may purchase of Shares pursuant to be paid for a Share shall be 5p any such contract.
exclusive of expenses : c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share shall not be more than the higher of: THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 43 William IV St E C A L Chandos Place P Y Ho St Adelphi Ter O Maiden Lane S T R A N D m A V s S en rd t Ga s men John Adam Street bank ia Em Victor e m a a h T E m b an k m e n t r e v i R h r Du NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 4.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate 6.
Copies of the New Articles of the Company Notes representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be available for inspection during normal 1.
A member entitled to attend, speak and vote will be put in place at the meeting so that i business hours on any day Saturdays, at the meeting is entitled to appoint one or if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Sundays and public holidays excepted until more proxies to attend, speak and, on a poll, Chairman of the meeting as its corporate the close of the Annual General Meeting at vote on his her behalf.
A proxy need not be representative with instructions to vote on a the of ces of Baillie Gifford & Co, Level 5, a member of the Company.
A Form of Proxy poll in accordance with the directions of all Ivybridge House, 15 Adam Street, London, for the use of members is enclosed and to be of the other corporate representatives for that WC2N 6AW.
Copies of the New Articles of valid must be lodged with the Registrars of the shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll Association will also be available for Company not later than 48 hours before the those corporate representatives will give inspection at the place of the Annual General time set for the meeting, or any adjourned voting directions to the Chairman and the Meeting for 15 minutes before and during the meeting.
Any Power of Attorney or any other Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as meeting.
authority under which the proxy is signed or corporate representative in accordance with 7.
As at 5 June 2008, the latest practicable a duly certi ed copy of such power or those directions: and ii if more than one date prior to publication of this document, the authority must be included with the proxy corporate representative for the same Company had 263,644,859 ordinary form.
The appointment of a proxy will not corporate shareholder attends the meeting but shares in issue with a total of 263,644,859 prevent a member from subsequently the corporate shareholder has not appointed voting rights.
attending and voting at the meeting in the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate 8.
Any person holding 3% of the total voting person.
representative, a designated corporate rights in the Company who appoints a person representative will be nominated, from those 2.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the other than the Chairman as his proxy will corporate representatives who attend, who Uncerti cated Securities Regulations 2001, need to ensure that both he and such third will vote on a poll and the other corporate the Company speci es that only those party complies with their respective disclosure representatives will give voting directions to shareholders entered on the Register of obligations under the Disclosure and that designated corporate representative.
Members of the Company as at the close of Transparency Rules.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the business on 3 August 2008 or, in the event 9.
No Director has a contract of service with the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered that the meeting is adjourned, on the Register Company.
Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and of Members 48 hours before the time of any corporate representatives www.
The members of the Company may require adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend for further details of this procedure.
The the Company to publish, on its website, a or vote at the meeting in respect of the guidance includes a sample form of statement setting out any matter relating to the number of ordinary shares registered in their representation letter if the Chairman is being audit of the Companys accounts, including name at that time.
appointed as described in i above.
the Auditors Report and the conduct of the Changes to the entries on the Register of audit, which they intend to raise at the next 5.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply Members after the close of business on 3 meeting of the Company.
The Company will to persons whose shares are held on their August 2008 or, in the event that the meeting be required to do so once it has received behalf by another person and who have such requests from either i members is adjourned, in the Register of Members 48 been nominated to receive communications representing at least 5% of the total voting hours before the time of any adjourned from the Company in accordance with rights of the Company or ii at least 100 section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 meeting, shall be disregarded in determining members who have a relevant right to vote nominated persons.
Nominated persons the rights of any person to attend or vote at and hold shares in the Company on which may have a right under an agreement with the meeting, notwithstanding any provisions there has been paid up an average sum per the registered shareholder who holds the in any enactment, the Articles of Association member of at least 100. shares on their behalf to be appointed or to of the Company or other instrument to the have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not 3.
Shareholders participating in the Baillie have such a right, or do not wish to exercise Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan, Childrens it, they may have a right under such an Savings Plan or the Baillie Gifford Investment agreement to give instructions to the person Trust ISA who wish to vote and or attend the holding the shares as to the exercise of voting meeting must complete and return the rights.
enclosed reply-paid Form of Direction.
