Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also and the financial statements in accordance with in responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement Accounting Practice UK Accounting Standards and that comply with that law and those regulations.
The financial statements are published on www.
murrayThe Directors are required to prepare financial statements for income.
co. uk, which is a website maintained by the each financial year which present fairly the financial position Companys Manager.
The Directors are responsible for the of the Company and the financial performance and cash maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial flows of the Company for that period.
In preparing those information included on the Companys website, Legislation financial statements, the Directors are required to: in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of select suitable accounting policies and then apply them financial statements may differ from legislation in other consistently: jurisdictions.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and Each of the Directors confirms that to the best of their state that the Company has complied with applicable UK knowledge: accounting standards, subject to any material departures the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
applicable UK accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting loss of the Company: and records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Directors Report includes a fair review of the the financial position of the Company and enable them to development and performance of the business and the ensure that the financial statements comply with the position of the Company, together with a description of the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud For and on behalf of the Board of Murray Income Trust PLC and other irregularities.
Adrian Coats Chairman of the Audit Committee 16 September 2008 Murray Income Trust PLC 33 Enfocus Software - Customer Support
