Notice of Annual General Meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the eighty-fifth Annual General Meeting of Murray Income Trust PLC will be held at 12.30 pm on Wednesday 5 November 2008 in the Strathclyde Suite, Glasgow Royal Concert Hall, 2 Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow, G2 3NY for the purpose of considering and if thought fit passing the following resolutions: Ordinary Business As ordinary business to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as Ordinary Resolutions.
To receive the Directors Report, the Report of the Auditors and the audited statement of accounts for the year ended 30 June 2008.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 June 2008.
To declare a final dividend of 11.25p per Ordinary share.
To re-elect Mr P Gifford as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr H van der Klugt as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Ms M Glen as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors of the Company.
To authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the Company.
Special Business As special business to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, in the case of number 8 as an Ordinary Resolution and, in the case of numbers 9,10 and 11, as Special Resolutions.
Authority to allot shares THAT, in substitution of all existing powers, the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in Section 80 2 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 807,368 representing 5 per cent of the total Ordinary shares in issue on 12 September 2008 excluding treasury shares during the period expiring on the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or 4 February 2010, whichever is the earlier, but so that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors shall be entitled to allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such authority had not expired.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 8 proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company convened for 5 November 2008, and in substitution for all existing powers, the Directors be and are hereby empowered, pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority given in accordance with Section 80 of the Act by Resolution 9 or otherwise as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment and to sell or transfer relevant shares as defined in Section 94 of the Act if, immediately before the sale or transfer, such shares are held by the Company as Treasury shares as defined in Section 162A of the Act as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such sale or transfer, provided that this power: a expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or 4 February 2010, whichever is the earlier, but so that this power shall enable the Company to make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted or Treasury shares to be sold or transferred after the expiry of this power and the Directors may allot equity securities or sell or transfer Treasury shares in pursuance of any such offers or agreements as if this power had not expired: b shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 807,368 representing 5 per cent.
of the total Ordinary shares in issue on 12 September 2008 excluding Treasury shares and the sale or transfer of Treasury shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,614,376 representing 10 per cent of the total Ordinary shares in issue on 12 September 2008 excluding Treasury shares : and c shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities in the circumstances detailed in the section headed Issue of New Shares in the Directors Report on pages 24 and 25 of the Annual Report of the Company for the year ended 30 June 2008 and at a price not less than 0.5 per cent.
above the net asset value per share as determined by the Directors and excluding Treasury shares.
Murray Income Trust PLC 55 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Notice of Meeting continued 10.
Authority to make market purchases of shares THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and, subject as hereinafter appears, unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of Ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company shares : PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT: a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be an aggregate of 9,681,959 Ordinary shares or, if less, the number representing 14.99 per cent.
of the respective classes of shares in issue as at the date of passing this resolution excluding treasury shares : b the minimum price which may be paid for each share shall be 25p: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a share is the higher of i 5 per cent.
above the average of the middle market quotations for a share taken from, and calculated by reference to, the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased: or, in the case of a tender offer, the date the tender offer is announced: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange at the time the purchase is carried out: d any purchase of shares shall be made in the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per share as determined by the Directors : e the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 5 February 2010 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless such authority is previously varied, revoked or renewed prior to such time: f the Company may enter into a contract to purchase shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority and may purchase shares pursuant to any such contract notwithstanding such expiry above: and g any shares so purchased shall be cancelled or, if the Directors so determine and subject to the provisions of the Act and any applicable regulations of the United Kingdom Listing Authority, be held or otherwise dealt with as permitted by the Act as treasury shares.
Amendment to Articles of Association THAT, with effect from 1 October 2008, the draft regulations produced to the meeting and, for the purposes of identification, initialled by the Chairman of the meeting be adopted as the articles of association of the Company in substitution for, and to the entire exclusion of, the existing articles of association of the Company.
The biographies of Mr Gifford, Mr van der Klugt and Ms Glen are detailed on pages 20 and 21 of the Annual Report By order of the Board Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Secretaries 40 Princes Street Edinburgh EH2 2BY 16 September 2008 Notes: i A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend, speak and, on a poll, to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A reply-paid form of proxy is enclosed.
ii Forms of proxy and the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which they are signed or a notarially certified copy of that power of attorney or authority should be sent to the Companys Registrar, Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Kent BR3 4TU, so as to arrive not less than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
iii In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, to have the right to attend and vote at the meeting referred to above a member must first have his or her name entered in the Companys register of members by not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting or in the event that the meeting be adjourned on the register of members 48 hours before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on that register after that time or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, on the register of members less than forty eight hours before the time of any adjourned meeting shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any member to attend and vote at the meeting referred to above.
56 Murray Income Trust PLC Enfocus Software - Customer Support iv No Director has a service contract with the Company.
Copies of the Directors letter of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and for 15 minutes prior to, and at, the meeting.
v The Register of Directors Interests kept by the Company in accordance with Section 325 of the Companies Act 1985 will be open for inspection at the meeting.
vi The Company proposes to adopt new Articles of Association.
These incorporate amendments to the current Articles of Association to reflect certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act which came, or will come, into effect in 2007 and 2008.
Because the 2006 Act will not be fully in force until October 2009, and so it is not yet possible to amend the Articles of Association to reflect all the changes to be made by the 2006 Act, it is expected that shareholders will be asked to approve further changes to the Articles of Association at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
For a more detailed explanation of the amendments, please refer to the Appendix to this Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 58. vii As at 12 September 2008, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Company had 64,589,458 Ordinary shares in issue with a total of 64,589,458 voting rights.
viii Any person holding 3% of the total voting rights in the Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
ix In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
A copy of the current Articles of Association and of the proposed new Articles of Association marked up to show the proposed amendments will be available for inspection during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the offices of Dickson Minto W. S. Royal London House, 22 25 Finsbury Square, London EC2A 1DX, until the conclusion of the meeting.
Murray Income Trust PLC 57 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Appendix to Notice of Annual General Meeting Summary of the changes to the Articles of Association of the Company The changes which would arise from the adoption of the New Articles are set out below.
Electronic and web communication Provisions of the 2006 Act which came into force in January 2007 enable companies to communicate with members by electronic means and or website communications.
The New Articles contain a number of provisions designed to maximise the Company's ability to use electronic systems, including websites, for communications with Shareholders.
The New Articles give the directors the discretion to use electronic communication to distribute notices of meetings, annual reports, accounts and summary financial statements.
Before the Company can communicate with a member by electronic communication and or by means of website communication, the relevant member must be asked individually by the Company to agree that the Company may send or supply documents or information to him electronically or by means of a website, and the Company must either have received a positive response or have received no response within the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the request was sent.
The Company will notify the member either in writing, or by other permitted means when documents or information are placed on the website and a member can always request a hard copy of the document or information.
The use of electronic communication by the Company will enable the Company to reduce costs and generally facilitate communication with Shareholders.
Conflicts of interest The current provisions in the Articles relating to directors' conflicts of interest will be replaced to reflect the new provisions of the 2006 Act in relation to directors' conflicts of interests which are expected to come into force on 1 October 2008.
The 2006 Act sets out directors' general duties which largely codify the existing law but with some changes.
Under the 2006 Act, from 1 October 2008, a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the Company's interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company, an advisor to the Company or a trustee of another organisation.
The 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, insofar as the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The 2006 Act also allows articles to contain other provisions for dealing with directors' conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and second, in taking the decision, the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Company's success.
The directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
In accordance with the 2006 Act, any authorisation will only be effective if the relevant board meeting is quorate without counting the relevant director and any other interested director in the quorum.
It is also proposed that the New Articles contain provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at board meetings and the availability of board papers to protect a director being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or a potential conflict of interest arises.
It is proposed that the New Articles will contain provisions empowering the directors to authorise situations involving directors' conflicts of interest and to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with by the Board.
Indemnity of Officers The current Articles already provide that the Company is entitled to indemnify any director or other officer of the Company against liability incurred by him or her for negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the affairs of the Company, subject to the provisions of the statutes.
The New Articles permit the Company to indemnify the directors, former directors or any other officer for all of the above liabilities, and also any liabilities incurred in the actual or purported execution of their duties or powers, or otherwise in relation to their duties, powers or office, to the widest extent possible under the new Companies Act.
The New Articles also permit the Company to provide funding to a director or former director to meet expenditure incurred or to be incurred in defending proceedings, including regulatory investigations and actions or in connection with an application for relief or to do anything to enable him or her to avoid incurring such expenditure, to the extent permitted under the Companies Act.
If the resolution is passed, it is the intention of the Board that deeds of indemnity 58 Murray Income Trust PLC Enfocus Software - Customer Support containing indemnities and undertakings on the provision of funds are entered into between the Company and each member of the board in line with developing market practice.
The quorum provisions of the Articles will be altered to permit a director to be counted in the quorum and vote at Board meetings where the business relates to the entry into of any such indemnity, undertaking, arrangement or proposal in favour of him or her as permitted by the Articles, including any provision of funds to him or her in accordance with the Articles.
Murray Income Trust PLC 59 Enfocus Software - Customer Support
