Glossary of Terms and Definitions Price Earnings Ratio Actual Gearing The ratio is calculated by dividing the middle-market price Total Assets as below less all cash and fixed interest assets per share by the earnings per share.
The calculation assumes excluding convertibles divided by shareholders funds.
no change in earnings but in practice the multiple reflects the stock markets view of a companys prospects and profit Asset Cover growth potential.
The value of a companys net assets available to repay a certain security.
Asset cover is usually expressed as a Prior Charges multiple and calculated by dividing the net assets available The name given to all borrowings including debentures, loan by the amount required to repay the specific security.
and short term loans and overdrafts that are to be used for investment purposes, reciprocal foreign currency loans, Discount currency facilities to the extent that they are drawn down, The amount by which the market price per share of an index-linked securities, and all types of preference or investment trust is lower than the net asset value per share.
preferred capital and the income shares of split capital trusts, The discount is normally expressed as a percentage of the irrespective of the time until repayment.
net asset value per share.
Total Assets Dividend Cover Total Assets less current liabilities before deducting prior Earnings per share divided by dividends per share expressed charges as defined above.
Total Expense Ratio Dividend Yield Ratio of expenses as percentage of average shareholders The annual dividend expressed as a percentage of the share funds calculated as per the industry standard Lipper Fitzrovia price.
Net Asset Value Total Return The value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities for this Total Return involves reinvesting the net dividend in the purpose included current and long-term liabilities.
The net month that the share price goes xd.
The NAV Total Return asset value divided by the number of shares in issue produces involves investing the same net dividend in the NAV of the the net asset value per share.
trust on the date to which that dividend was earned, eg quarter end, half year or year end date.
Operating Cost All costs charged to revenue and capital, excluding taxation, Winding-up Date finance costs, the costs of purchases of share capital and the The date specified in the Articles of Association for windingcosts of buying and selling investments.
Potential Gearing Total Assets including all debt being used for investment purposes divided by shareholders funds.
Premium The amount by which the market price per share of an investment trust exceeds the net asset value per share.
The premium is normally expressed as a percentage of the net asset value per share.
54 Murray Income Trust PLC Enfocus Software - Customer Support
