Statement of Directors Res Statement of Directors Resp ponsibilities onsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also and Accounts and the financial statements, in accordance responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors with applicable law and regulations.
Remuneration Report and Statement of Corporate Governance that comply with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the The financial statements are published on Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in www.
co. uk which is a website maintained by the accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial The financial statements are required by law to give a true information included on the Companys website.
Legislation and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: The Directors confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: applicable UK Accounting Standards, give a true and fair make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or prudent: and, loss of the Company: and the Directors Report includes a fair review of the state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed development and performance of the business and the and explained in the financial statements.
position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time For Murray International Trust PLC the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the J F H Trott Chairman Companies Act 1985 and Companies Act 2006, where 24 February 2009 applicable.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
