Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and first Annual General Meeting of Murray International Trust PLC will be held at 12.30 pm on 22 April 2009 in the Capital Suite, The Chamber of Commerce, 33 Queen Street, London EC4R 1AP for the following purposes:- Ordinary Business As ordinary business to consider and, if thought fit, pass resolutions numbered 1 to 7 as Ordinary Resolutions:- 1 To receive the Directors' Report and audited statement of accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008.
2 To approve the Directors' Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2008.
3 To re-elect Mr J D Best as a Director of the Company.
4 To re-elect Mr A C Shedden as a Director of the Company.
5 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors of the Company.
6 To authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of the Auditors.
7 THAT: i a final dividend of 8.8p per Ordinary share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008 be paid on 15 May 2009 to holders of the Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company on the register at close of business on 3 April 2009: and, ii the Directors be authorised, in substitution for the similar authority passed at last years Annual General Meeting, to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot B Ordinary Shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 100,000 pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 provided that this authority shall expire on 21 April 2014.
Special Business As special business to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions in the case of number 8 as an Ordinary Resolution and in the case of numbers 9 and 10 as Special Resolutions.
Authority to Allot 8 THAT, in addition to any authority granted by Resolution No.
"7 above, the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 ""the Act"" to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in that section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,293,990 representing 10 per cent."
of the total Ordinary and B Ordinary share capital of the Company in issue on 24 February 2009 during the period expiring on the date of the next annual general meeting of the Company or on 30 June 2010, whichever is the earlier, but so that this authority, unless previously revoked, varied or renewed, shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such authority had not expired.
"Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights 9 THAT the Directors be and they are hereby empowered, pursuant to Section 95 of the Act, to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority given in accordance with Section 80 of the Act by Resolution number 8 as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities:- i during the period expiring on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 30 June 2010, whichever is earlier, but so that this power shall, unless previously revoked, varied or renewed, enable the Company to make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after the expiry of this power and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such power had not expired: ii up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,293,990 representing 10 per cent of the total Ordinary and B Ordinary share capital of the Company in issue on 24 February 2009 : iii and in the circumstances detailed in the section headed ""Issue of Shares"" on pages 23 and 24 of the Annual Report Murray International Trust PLC 59 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued and at a price not less than 0.5 per cent above the net asset value per Share from time to time as determined by the Directors and excluding treasury shares."
"This power applies to a sale of Shares which is an allotment of equity securities by virtue of Section 94 3A of the Act as if in the first paragraph of this resolution the words ""pursuant to the authority given in accordance with section 80 of the Act by Resolution Number 8"" were omitted."
Authority to Make Market Purchases of Shares 10 THAT the Company be generally and, subject as hereinafter appears, unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of fully paid Ordinary Shares and B Ordinary Shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company: PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT: i the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be an aggregate of 13,586,785 Ordinary Shares and 167,976 B Ordinary Shares or, if less, the number representing 14.99 per cent.
of the respective classes of Shares in issue excluding Shares already held in treasury as at the date of the passing of this resolution: ii the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 25p: iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share shall be the higher of i an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of the middle market quotations for a Share taken from, and calculated by reference to, the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Share is purchased: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out: iv any purchase of Shares will be made in the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per Share as determined by the Directors : v the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company or 30 June 2010, whichever is earlier, unless such authority is previously revoked, varied or renewed prior to such time: vi the Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract or contracts notwithstanding such expiry above: and vii any Shares so purchased shall be cancelled or, if the Directors so determine and subject to the provisions of the Act and any applicable regulations of the United Kingdom Listing Authority, be held or otherwise dealt with as permitted by the Act as treasury shares.
40 Princes Street, By order of the Board Edinburgh EH2 2BY Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 6 March 2009 Secretaries Notes: 1.
No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
Copies of the Letters of Appointment of the Directors will be available for inspection at 40 Princes Street, Edinburgh EH2 2BY from 6 March 2009 until the time of the Annual General Meeting and at the Capital Suite, The Chamber of Commerce, 33 Queen Street, London EC4R 1AP from 15 minutes before the Annual General Meeting starts until it ends.
As a member, you are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise all or any of your rights to attend, speak and vote at the Meeting.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
You may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
You may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise the rights attached to any one share.
A form of proxy is enclosed.
To be valid, any proxy form or other instrument of proxy and any power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which they are signed or a Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 notarially certified copy of that power of attorney or authority should be sent to the Companys registrars, Beckenham Road, Kent, BR3 4TU, or delivered by hand, so as to arrive not less than forty eight hours before the time fixed for the Meeting or adjourned Meeting or in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after it was demanded not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
Alternatively, if you hold your shares in uncertificated form i. e. in CREST you may vote using the CREST system please see note 10 below.
The return of a completed proxy form or other instrument of proxy will not prevent you attending the Meeting and voting in person if you wish to do so.
In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertified Securities Regulations 2001, to have the right to attend and vote at the Meeting a member must first have his or her name entered in the Companys register of members by not later than forty eight hours before the time fixed for the Meeting or, in the event that the Meeting is adjourned, forty eight hours before the time of the adjourned Meeting.
Changes to entries on that register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any member to attend and vote at the Meeting referred to above.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between them and the member by whom they were nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, they may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 2 and 3 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by members of the Company.
As at close of business on 24 February 2009 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Companys issued share capital comprised 90,638,992 Ordinary shares of 25 pence each and 1,120,588 B Ordinary shares of 25 pence, carrying 89 votes each on a poll.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 24 February 2009 are 8,166,602,620.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate member has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that member at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate member attends the meeting but the corporate member has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate members are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
"In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message ""a CREST proxy instruction"" must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCo's specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual."
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer's agent RA10 by 12.30p.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuer's agent is able to retrieve the message.
After this time any change of instructions to a proxy appointed through CREST should be communicated to the proxy by other means.
CREST personal members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsored members, or voting service provider s should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST proxy instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning the practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
We may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Details of resolutions 2 to 10 are shown in the Annual Report as follows:- Resolution 2 Pages 33 and 34 Directors Remuneration Report Resolutions 3 and 4 Page 24 Directors Resolutions 5 and 6 Page 26 Auditors Resolution 7 Page 22 Dividends Resolutions 8 to 10 Pages 22 to 24 Authority to issue and buy back shares Murray International Trust PLC 61
