Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information SIGNIFICA NT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 67 Novae Group plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales.
The consolidated financial statements include the results of Novae Group plc and all its subsidiary undertakings together referred to as the Group made up to the same accounting date.
The parent company financial statements on pages 105 to 108 present information about Novae Group plc as a separate entity and not about its group.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP: its balance sheet is presented in the audited Annual Report.
The financial statements of the parent company have been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Section 226A of, and Schedule 4 to, the Companies Act 1985.
No individual pro t and loss account is presented for Novae Group plc, as permitted by Section 230 4 of the Act.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied to the Group consistently for all periods presented in this consolidated financial information unless otherwise stated.
a IFRS The Group has elected to adopt early IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
This has resulted in changes to the Groups segmental disclosure note 1.
Novae has considered the impact of standards not yet effective but endorsed for use in the EU: amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations, IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, IAS 23 Borrowing Costs, IAS 32 IAS 1 Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation, and IFRS1 IAS 27 Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate.
These are expected to have no signi cant impact on the balance sheet or income statement, bar presentational changes as a result of the amendment to IAS 1.
Novae has considered the impact of standards not yet effective or endorsed for use in the EU: IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations, IFRS 1 Revised First Time Adoption of IFRS, IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate, IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation, IFRC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners, IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers and amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items, and IAS 39 Reclassi cation of Financial Assets: Effective Date and Transition.
These are expected to have no signi cant impact on the balance sheet or income statement, bar IFRS 3 Revised in the event of a future business combination.
Potential adoption of IFRS Phase II Insurance Contracts in 2012 may result in a signi cant impact on the balance sheet and income statement.
b Basis of preparation The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling unless otherwise stated.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modi ed by the revaluation of financial assets at fair value through pro t or loss and financial liabilities at amortised cost.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The results of these factors allow judgements to be made regarding the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Uncertainties exist where current valuations are dependent on estimates of future results.
This applies to the share based payment charge, the deferred tax asset and financial assets and liabilities held at fair value.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all years presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The Groups greatest area of uncertainty relates to insurance contract liabilities.
The assumptions involved are discussed on pages 74 to 77.
The estimates and assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimate is revised if the revision only affects that year, or in the year of the revision and future years if the revision affects both current and future years.
c Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are entities controlled by Novae Group.
Control exists when Novae Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain bene ts from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
com 68 SIGNIFICA NT ACCOUNTING POLICIES | continued All subsidiaries are consolidated within the Group financial statements.
Intra-Group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
d Classi cation and accounting for insurance contracts Insurance contracts are those contracts that transfer signi cant insurance risk at the inception of the contract.
Insurance risk is transferred when an insurer agrees to compensate a policyholder if a speci ed uncertain future event adversely affects the policyholder.
i Premiums Written premiums comprise the premiums on contracts entered into during the year, irrespective of whether they relate in whole or in part to a later accounting period.
Premiums are disclosed gross of commission payable to intermediaries and exclude taxes and levies based on premiums.
Premiums written include adjustments to contracts entered into in prior accounting periods as well as estimates for future premiums.
Premiums on reinsurance assumed are recognised as revenue on the same basis as direct business, taking into account product classi cation.
An estimate is made at the balance sheet date to recognise retrospective adjustments to premiums or commissions.
Outward reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the premiums for the related inwards insurance or reinsurance business.
ii Unearned premium provision The provision for unearned premiums comprises the proportion of gross premiums written which is estimated to be earned in the following or subsequent years, computed separately for each insurance contract in line with the risk exposure pro le.
iii Claims Claims incurred consist of claims and claims-handling expenses paid during the financial year together with the movement in the provision for outstanding claims.
Claims outstanding comprise provisions for the estimated cost of settling all claims incurred but unpaid at the balance sheet date, whether reported or not, and related internal and external claims-handling expenses.
The ultimate liability as a result of outstanding claims will vary due to subsequent information and events and may result in signi cant adjustments to the amounts provided.
Adjustments to the amounts of claims provisions established in prior years are re ected in the financial statements for the period in which the adjustments are made, and disclosed separately if material.
The main assumptions used in the calculation of the ultimate cost of outstanding claims are detailed in the reserving risk section of Novaes risk disclosures.
iv Liability adequacy testing At each balance sheet date, liability adequacy tests are performed to ensure the adequacy of the insurance liabilities net of deferred acquisition costs.
In performing these tests, current best estimates are used of future contractual cash ows, claims handling and administration expenses as well as investment income from the assets backing such liabilities.
Any fide ciency is immediately charged to the pro t or loss, initially by writing off deferred acquisition costs and by subsequently establishing a provision for losses arising from liability adequacy tests unexpired risk provision.
v Reinsurance The Group buys reinsurance in the normal course of business for the purpose of limiting its net loss potential.
Reinsurance assets include amounts recoverable from reinsurers for losses and loss adjustment expenses.
If a reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group reduces its carrying amount accordingly, and will immediately recognise the impairment loss in the income statement.
A reinsurance asset will be deemed to be impaired if there is objective evidence, as a result of an event occurring after initial recognition of the asset, that the Group may not receive all amounts due to it under the terms of the contract, and that the event has a reliable measurable impact on the amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer.
Reinsurance arrangements do not relieve the Group from its direct obligations to its policyholders.
e Segment reporting Following adoption of IFRS 8 Operating Segments during the year, a segment represents a distinguishable component of the Group that has been identi ed on the basis of the level of aggregation used within the business when reporting to the chief operating decision maker.
These segments form the basis of assessing financial performance and allocating resources.
There have been no changes to the make up of the five Novae segments as a result of the adoption of IFRS 8.
There are no reconciling items between pro t on an IFRS basis and as reportable by segment.
Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 69 f Revenue The basis on which premium revenue is recognised is set out in policy d above.
Premium revenue comprises written premium less any amounts of unearned premium.
Revenue also includes investment income: accounting policy n contains further details on its recognition.
g Fees and commission income Fees and commission income comprise managing agents fees receivable from third party capital providers and commission receivable by the Groups service companies.
h Operating lease payments Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
i Financing costs Financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings and off balance sheet letter of credit facilities provided by third parties calculated using the effective interest-rate method.
j Income tax Income tax on the pro t or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
The Group calculates income tax using the current income tax rate.
A deferred tax asset is recognised based on enacted or substantively enacted rates of corporation tax only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable pro ts will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities arising in the same jurisdiction are offset where permitted.
k Foreign currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using sterling as this is the functional currency, being the primary currency of the economic environment in which the Groups entities operate.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate prevailing at that transaction date.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities, primarily deferred acquisition costs and gross and ceded unearned premiums, are translated using the historical transaction rate.
l Intangible assets Purchased syndicate capacity has been classed as a nite life intangible asset.
It is included at cost and amortised over the directors estimate of its useful economic life, currently 15 years.
Amortisation commences in the financial year in which the underwriting results from the purchased capacity are first recognised.
Provision is made for any impairment in the carrying amount of purchased capacity.
m Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation see below and any impairment in value.
Where categories of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items.
Depreciation is charged in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated useful lives are as follows the residual value, if signi cant, is reassessed annually : Furniture and equipment three to five years Computer equipment three years Of ce refurbishment three to five years n Financial assets Financial assets have been designated as fair value through pro t or loss on initial recognition.
This has been deemed the most appropriate valuation methodology for these assets as this re ects the fact that the investment portfolios are managed, and their performance evaluated, on a fair value basis.
Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on a trade date basis.
Any gain or loss as a result of a change in fair value is recognised directly through the income statement.
The fair value of financial instruments classi ed as fair value through pro t or loss is held at their quoted bid price at the balance sheet date.
Investment income and charges are recognised on an accruals basis based on the coupon rate.
No financial assets are valued as mark to model.
com 70 SIGNIFICA NT ACCOUNTING POLICIES | continued o Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, nancing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
The Group monitors the commercial effectiveness of its derivative financial instruments with regards to the requirements of IAS 39.
Hedge accounting has not been adopted.
p Deferred acquisition costs Acquisition costs comprise all direct costs arising from the conclusion of insurance contracts.
Deferred acquisition costs represent the proportion of acquisition costs incurred that corresponds to the unearned premiums provision.
Acquisition costs are deferred only to the extent that available future margins are expected to cover them.
q Receivables Receivables are initially recognised at fair value and thereafter are stated at amortised cost less impairment losses.
r Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Included within cash and cash equivalents are balances that are not freely available to the Group, details of which are set out in note 22.
These can be used to settle policyholder claims.
s Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups financial assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the carrying value is reduced to the estimated recoverable amount by means of a charge to the consolidated income statement.
The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that re ects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks speci c to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash in ows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
t Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are held at amortised cost.
Any gain or loss as a result of a change in the carrying value is recognised directly through the income statement.
Transaction costs are amortised on an effective interest rate basis over the period to the earliest redemption date.
The fair value of the liability portion of the convertible bond is determined by discounting contractual cash out ows using the interest rate payable on an equivalent non-convertible bond.
The amount is carried as a liability on an effective interest basis until extinguished on conversion or redemption.
The remainder of the issue proceeds is allocated to the conversion option and is recognised and included in shareholders equity on initial recognition.
Transaction costs have been allocated between the debt and equity components of the convertible bond in a way deemed most appropriate by the Group.
No financial liabilities are valued as mark to model.
u Dividends Dividends are recognised in the period in which they are approved.
v Employee bene ts i fide ned contribution pension plans Obligations for contributions to fide ned contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
ii Share-based payment transactions The Groups equity incentive schemes allow its employees to acquire shares of Novae Group plc.
The fair value of options and LTIP awards granted are recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in shareholders equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to re ect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is due only to failure to meet vesting conditions.
w Payables Payables are measured at fair value on initial recognition and are stated subsequently at amortised cost.
x Treasury shares Treasury shares are valued at acquisition cost and are deducted from shareholders equity.
