Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information risk disclosures 71 The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the risk management framework and policy for the Group.
Detailed responsibility for oversight of risk management and policy fide nition is delegated by the Board to the Risk Committee.
Risk is analysed by reference to six speci c risk pillars: Insurance risk Market risk Liquidity risk Credit risk Operational risk Group risk Risk is mitigated by the design and operation of effective controls.
The overall approach to each risk pillar is set out in a high level policy document that also summarises the responsibility of the relevant oversight committees.
The Risk Committee ensures that there is regular review of these arrangements.
The Risk Committee consists of the Chairman and the Groups executive directors.
It is attended by a non-executive director of NSL who is an expert on operational risk.
The principal responsibilities of the Risk Committee include the identi cation of risks, the maintenance of an ongoing process to review those risks and the review of the framework of controls in place.
The risk matrix lists some 125 speci c risks across the various risk pillars and identi es the owner of each individual risk.
The impact of each risk is assessed gross before management control and net after management control.
The means by which individual risks are monitored are also listed on the matrix.
Novae also maintains a near-miss register, which is designed to identify actual and potential control failures not only in the insurance industry but in other financial services businesses.
Where possible, lessons are drawn from such events.
The control environment is subject to ongoing internal review.
In addition, both Lloyds and the FSA periodically publish best practice guidance and, where relevant, improvements are made re ecting such advice.
Net risk appetite in areas outside insurance risk is limited.
Internal Audit reviews the policies and procedures for all Group entities on a risk-based approach.
It submits an audit plan to the Group Audit Committee each year for approval.
This plan assesses the risks involved in each area of operation using the risk matrix and, based on that assessment, determines how often that area should be reviewed.
The plan is subject to amendment if a risk changes signi cantly during the year and any material changes to the audit plan are agreed with the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The internal audit process takes the risks relating to an area of operation and matches them to controls designed to mitigate those risks.
Each audit completed is the subject of a formal written report, which includes an action plan agreed by management.
The reports are then circulated to senior management and the Audit Committee.
A separate quarterly report is circulated to the boards of NSL and NICL and to the Audit Committee, which provides an update on the action points in individual reports.
This process ensures that the agreed action is carried out.
Insurance risk Insurance risk is made up of underwriting risk and reserving risk.
Underwriting risk The Groups underwriting is reported in four ongoing business segments and segmental information is set out in note 1 a - c to the accounts.
A geographical analysis of the Groups gross written premium income appears in note 1 d. Underwriting risk is the risk that the premiums charged for current business are less than the cost of claims and underwriting expenses.
As part of business planning, each of the elements of premium, claims and expenses are considered.
The business planning process involves all class underwriters and senior management covering the areas of underwriting, claims, reinsurance, actuarial and finance.
The starting point for business planning is to capture at a class of business level the underlying changes in exposure, rating levels, retention of business, new business and claims in ation.
Reinsurance structures and costs are also captured.
These assumptions are reviewed and challenged by a panel comprising a sub-group of the Underwriting Authorisations & Monitoring Committee UAMC.
If necessary, changes are made to the assumptions and this provides the basis for an initial business plan.
com 72 risk disclosures | continued The information captured as part of this process provides the inputs to a risk-based stochastic model, which allows the modelling of the relative risk pro les, and thereby capital requirements, of pursuing different strategies.
Feedback from this will also result in changes to plan.
The plans are then presented to the Boards of NSL and NICL for review, challenge and approval.
Plans, once approved, are monitored regularly by the UAMC and the respective boards, and changes are made when appropriate.
In this way the plans remain dynamic and change as actual performance develops.
In considering gross premium levels, changes in exposures being underwritten are modelled separately.
This is to ensure that pro tability considerations are separated from the quantum of exposure accepted.
Claims experience is considered in three separate elements: attritional losses, large risk losses and catastrophe losses.
Attritional losses are best described as those that fall below the retention level of both the risk and event excess of loss reinsurance protections.
They are considered in aggregate at the class of business level and modelled as a function of a rate on a unit of exposure.
The business planning review process aims to ensure that any changes to the constituent parts of a class of business are properly captured.
Large losses are fide ned with reference to a threshold that differs depending on the class of business.
In determining these thresholds, the Group ensures that they are below the retention level of the relevant risk reinsurance protection.
In assessing the likelihood of large losses, a mixture of index-linked historical losses and, where data is insuf cient, assumed losses based upon the line pro le of the business are used.
Reviewing this element of claims separately enables Novae to model the effect of different reinsurance programmes.
The final element of claims experience is catastrophic losses.
These are fide ned as losses from a single cause or event that impacts multiple assureds or reassureds.
These comprise natural catastrophes, liability scenarios such as a major corporate failure, marine or aviation events, political or terrorist events or an aggregation of occurrence liability exposure.
An important aspect of the containment of net underwriting risk relates to the purchase of outwards reinsurance.
The process of purchasing reinsurance takes place under the supervision of the Group Reinsurance Committee.
Only reinsurance security approved by a separate Reinsurance Security Vetting Committee RISVC may be used.
No individual with authority to purchase reinsurance may be a member of the RISVC.
Monetary limits are set for individual reinsurers, taking into account the rating they carry from external rating agencies and a variety of other sources of information.
As far as attritional claims are concerned, there is limited scope to reduce net risk exposure.
Sometimes proportional reinsurance either quota share or surplus is used to reduce exposure to attritional loss.
The use of such reinsurance in current underwriting and plans for the foreseeable future is limited and most underwriting is solely for the Groups account.
Exposure to large individual losses is contained at the net level by the purchase of risk reinsurance.
The largest individual lines that the Group would normally contemplate in any aspect of its business are 20 million and the normal retention in the event of a large loss in this instance is 2.5 million.
It is often the case that the net loss arising from an individual large loss will also be increased by the need to pay a supplementary premium to reinstate the outwards reinsurance against the possibility of a further loss to the programme.
Consideration is given to the possibility of a multiplicity of large losses in a year and the extent of sideways reinsurance protection provided by the reinsurance programme concerned.
Sometimes a lower retention is considered desirable in the event of a second large loss or a large loss excess of some number of large losses affecting the reinsurance programme.
Therefore the reinsurance programme may be structured to provide more protection in circumstances of multiple large losses.
The number of losses protected by the reinsurance programme is normally limited, so it is possible that the number of such losses could exceed the amount of protection purchased.
Were this to happen, any large losses in excess of the extent of the reinsurance protection would be borne fully by the Group entity concerned.
Experience and analysis are used to evaluate the optimum level of reinsurance protection to cover the possibility of adverse frequency of loss while seeking to avoid excessive outwards reinsurance spend.
Protection is also arranged against the possibility of numerous claims arising from a particular circumstance or event.
Many or all of these claims individually might be small but the aggregate can produce a large number for the gross loss.
As in the case of risk protection, it is necessary to assess the possibility of a number of loss events.
Many property event protections provide a total of two limits, so a reinstatement premium is normally payable on collection from the first limit.
Recoveries under such excess of loss event reinsurance can be supplemented by recoveries under other forms of reinsurance.
In some cases, protection is purchased where the industry loss must reach a certain level in order to permit a recovery to be made.
In other cases, clash reinsurance might be relevant, which enables the retentions in respect of different losses relating to a single event to be aggregated and a recovery to be made in excess of the retention speci ed by the clash cover.
Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 73 Catastrophes and high-pro le events individually have the scope to exert a material impact on Group underwriting performance and the management of underwriting risk involves devoting considerable attention to such possibilities.
A distinct risk appetite is formulated for this aspect of risk, with considerable variation according to the nature of the event concerned.
This re ects both the scale of underwriting activity in different areas and the probability of different loss events occurring.
Risk appetite for exposure to catastrophe loss is captured by a concept referred to as Willingness to Lose WTL.
This is set by the Boards of NSL and NICL in consultation with the Board of Novae Group plc.
WTL is fide ned as the maximum loss net of reinsurance and reinstatement premiums that the Group is prepared to absorb from any one modelled event or series of events.
WTL is monitored with regard to Realistic Disaster Scenarios RDS.
This focuses principally upon in-house scenarios but also takes into account a number of scenarios set by Lloyds.
Examples of scenarios set by Lloyds are speci c windstorms in Florida following clearly speci ed paths one involving Miami and the other Tampa Bay, each costing the insurance industry over US $125 billion.
An example of a modelled in-house scenario is a generic Florida windstorm event intended to capture a multiplicity of speci c individual loss events.
The assumed overall market loss in this case is $70 billion but the methodology employed is different, including analysing loss potential from US insurance companies that the Lloyds business reinsures based on state-wide market share analysis.
The nature of this analysis tends to produce a more severe impact from a given level of assumed market loss when compared with what would normally be derived from speci c scenario modelling incorporating very detailed speci cations.
A wide range of such scenarios is calculated quarterly with the relevant summary data reported to the NSL and NICL boards.
Various aspects are reported monthly to the UAMC, including aggregates for property business and various hypothetical levels of speci c loss for aviation reinsurance business.
There is an annual in-depth review undertaken at the time of the Lloyds RDS submission, which is presented to the UAMC for endorsement of the assumptions made in the assessment and then to the NSL Board for final approval before submission to Lloyds.
This is supplemented by ad hoc reviews of WTL RDS as appropriate through the year.
A summary of a selection of current RDS and the WTL relating to them is as follows: Scenario WTL Net RDS impact on Novae Florida windstorm US $70bn insured loss generic US $78m US $51m Florida windstorm: Miami-Dade Lloyds scenario US $78m US $45m Florida windstorm: Tampa Bay Lloyds scenario US $78m US $78m Gulf of Mexico windstorm US $60bn insured loss generic US $78m US $76m Gulf of Mexico windstorm Lloyds scenario US $78m US $72m Californian earthquake US $50bn insured loss generic US $78m US $72m Californian earthquake: Los Angeles Lloyds scenario US $78m US $55m Californian earthquake: San Francisco Lloyds scenario US $78m US $48m New Madrid earthquake Lloyds scenario US $56m US $30m UK ood 1953-type event generic 38m 33m UK European windstorm Lloyds scenario A36m A34m Japanese earthquake over US $50bn insured loss 6bn 6bn Japanese typhoon US $15bn insured loss 6bn 6bn Aviation collision event US $4bn insured loss US $56m US $54m Political risks in-house scenario US $44m US $44m Marine energy events in-house scenario US $35m US $22m Corporate collapse following a merger in-house scenario 30m 27m Professional lines Lloyds scenario 20m 16m Professional lines housing market collapse 25m 15m Occurrence liability 20m 9m All these scenarios are computed on the assumption that they represent a stand-alone first loss event in the current year.
However, the subject of multiple loss accumulation also needs to be borne in mind: for example, in 2004 there were four signi cant hurricanes making US landfall Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne.
com 74 risk disclosures | continued Lloyds sets a second event scenario to be modelled.
Consistent with the general Lloyds approach, it assumes a detailed speci c Carolinas hurricane following a speci c hurricane affecting the north-east of the USA.
However, these Lloyds scenarios are still concerned principally with loss severity.
Both loss scenarios are set at damage levels considered relatively remote from a probability perspective and they do not test what happens when a third loss occurs after two losses have already had an impact on outward reinsurance arranged to cover two losses.
Sideways accumulation emerging from a multiple occurrence of large losses is also monitored.
For example, the potential impact of a UK European windstorm after two Florida hurricanes is modelled.
When considering sideways accumulation it is realistic to make the individual scenarios less severe in their intensity.
As important elements of catastrophe reinsurance business, both inwards and outwards, have only one reinstatement the scale of loss in a second loss scenario can be lower than in an identical first loss scenario because of the absence of outwards reinstatement premiums in respect of reinsurance arranged to provide protection for property business.
A third loss can be more challenging because reinsurance protection at levels engaged by each of the first two loss events is no longer available.
There are numerous ways in which exposure to underwriting risk can be tested.
A breadth of analysis is considered desirable but there is also the need to make it suf ciently simple to make it a feasible basis of regular assessment.
When looking at loss combinations in particular, it is possible to consider circumstances that could arise which have not been modelled.
It is important to recognise the limitations of loss modelling as well as the importance attached to it when evaluating underwriting risk.
Reserving risk Reserving risk is the risk that reserves may prove inadequate.
It arises as a result of the inherent uncertainty in setting claims reserves.
i Assumptions Claims staff apply their experience and knowledge to the circumstances of individual claims when setting case reserves.
External input is also sought where appropriate.
For example, for certain US liability classes the advice of US attorneys who specialise in claims of a particular nature is re ected in reserves carried.
Additional qualitative input, such as allowance for one-off occurrences or changes in legislation, policy conditions or portfolio mix, is also used in arriving at the case reserve.
In setting this reserve, consideration is given to the uncertainty in the quantum of the final claim cost, implicitly allowing for the likelihood of deviations, taking into account such information as is available at the time.
Claims provisions for the estimated cost of settling all claims incurred but unpaid at the balance sheet date, whether reported or not, include an estimate of related internal and external claims handling expenses.
A sound basis for establishing reserves for known claims is a key ingredient in the reserving process.
This is then supplemented by an assessment of likely future claim developments relating to already noti ed circumstances and, for some classes, in respect of future noti cations.
In this way an assessment of ultimate claims costs is arrived at for different types of business.
The ultimate cost of claims is normally estimated by using a range of standard actuarial projection techniques, such as the Chain Ladder and Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods.
Such methods extrapolate the development of claims numbers for different types of business for each underwriting year, based on the claims patterns of earlier years in the case of Chain Ladder and initial expected loss ratios in the case of Bornhuetter-Ferguson.
The main assumption underlying these standard techniques is that past claims development experience can be used to project what might be expected to happen in the future.
Judgement is used to assess the extent to which past trends may not apply in the future and what deviations might be expected.
Exceptions to these standard methodologies are used where they are believed to give a more reliable assessment of ultimate liability.
For example, alternative approaches are used for catastrophe-exposed business where loss development patterns are less regular.
The approach adopted for reserving takes into account, inter alia, the nature and materiality of business and the type of data available.
The Reserving Committee reviews actuarial projections and takes into account views expressed by underwriters where appropriate, setting reserves based on a blend of these techniques.
At the early stage of development of long-tail classes of business, signi cant weight is given to changes in the rating environment and conditions on renewal of policies in arriving at likely ultimate claims costs.
Provisions are calculated allowing for reinsurance recoveries and a separate asset is recorded for the reinsurers share.
Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 75 ii Amount, timing and uncertainty of cash ows Future cash ows are estimated by taking the estimated cost of outstanding claims, plus liabilities that will be incurred in the future, and spreading these amounts over future calendar years based upon payment patterns observed from past experience.
The payment patterns are probabilistic and allow for situations where signi cant reserves are settled in one time period, where that time period is unknown.
For example, claims arising from a major corporate collapse may well be settled over a relatively short period, but at present it is not clear when that period will be.
The payment pattern applied spreads the payments over the potential settlement period.
The uncertainty in the projected cash ows will be high because it is derived from both the uncertainty in the reserving process and the uncertainty in the payment patterns.
iii Sensitivity analysis Estimated insurance contract liabilities are the result of a process that blends statistical analysis of historical data with subjective interpretation of qualitative information.
These liabilities will therefore be sensitive to limitations of the available data, and to the subjectivity employed in interpreting both the qualitative and quantitative information.
The business written by the Group is diverse, and each line of business is analysed separately so that to a large degree the sensitivity within any one class will be immaterial at the Group level.
Also, the diverse nature of the portfolio means that the potential downside risk within one class of business may be offset by the upside potential in another.
The actuarial department performs the reserving analysis liaising closely with underwriters, claims and reinsurance staff.
It is charged with reporting its conclusions on the basis of an actuarial best estimate.
The best estimate is intended to represent the statistical mean of the distribution of outcomes that could be reasonably foreseen given the information available at the time.
The outcome is reviewed by the Reserving Committee and, where appropriate, upward revisions may be made to the best estimate.
Given some of the sensitivities in the data and assumptions, a management load is applied over and above the actuarial best estimate to increase the reserves beyond the mean.
The management load comprises three elements.
First, there is a formulaic element, which is designed to provide a margin to cover the greater uncertainty in the early stages of account development.
The formula applies a variable load to the class of business net loss ratio based upon the stage of development and the length of the development tail.
In this way a greater load is applied in the early stages of development and to longer-tailed classes.
Second, speci c loads may be applied by management where there are appropriate circumstances such as a recent catastrophe loss.
Third, in the case of new classes of business written by the Group, the projected loss ratios in the business plans will be more subjective and the development to date based upon benchmarks.
Therefore there is a greater element of subjectivity in the actuarial best estimate for such business and accordingly a load might be made to provide for the greater uncertainty.
Were there to be a 1% variation in the Groups total claims reserve, there would be a pre-tax effect of 7.3 million 2007: 6.0 million and net assets would be impacted accordingly.
The recent dislocation in financial markets and the slowdown in economic activity have the potential to produce claims across many classes of business, and particularly for financial and professional lines.
The withdrawal of the Group from most US liability business after 2004 limits the exposure to direct US losses.
During 2008 the financial market dislocation broadened beyond US sub-prime into the international markets, where the Group has a greater presence, and include the potential fallout from events in the broader banking industry and the alledged fraud perpetrated by Bernard Madoff.
It is too early to determine whether these issues will produce signi cant claims for Novae.
However, the Group has adopted a cautious approach in setting reserves for the lines of business with potential exposure.
com 76 risk disclosures | continued iv Claims development Claims development tables are shown on an underwriting year basis: these set out the development of claims over time on a gross and net of reinsurance basis.
These claims are shown on an ultimate basis for each successive underwriting year and include syndicate results at the 100% ownership level.
Balances have been translated at exchange rates prevailing at 31 December 2008 in all cases.
Changes in the projected level of ultimate premiums will therefore contribute to the movement in claims costs shown above.
Across all prior years net of reinsurance and excluding the business of the Discontinued Units, that component of claims development that relates to settlement of claims at levels different from reserves carried or reassessment of reserves required in respect of claims that remain unsettled amounted in aggregate to a credit of 6.7 million at the Groups ownership level.
v Commutations Inwards commutations involve reaching a final settlement with ceding companies.
Following such commutation no further claims may be made to the reinsurer, in this case Novae.
The process of commutation may involve the payment or receipt of cash, representing a risk premium and an allowance for the time value of money.
An outwards commutation involves a similar settlement with a reinsurer or retrocessionaire with which Novae has entered into reinsurance arrangements.
Again this means that claims can no longer be presented to that party after the commutation date.
A cash payment may form part of the settlement.
com 78 risk disclosures | continued Market risk Market risk arises where the values of assets and liabilities change as a result of movements in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and market prices.
Interest rate and price risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the value and or future cash ows of a financial instrument will uctuate due to changes in interest rates.
The Groups exposure to interest rate risk is concentrated in Novaes investment portfolio, cash balances and, to a lesser extent, the Groups debt obligations.
Price risk is the risk that the value of financial instruments will uctuate due to market factors.
Similarly, the Groups exposure to price risk is concentrated in Novaes investment portfolio.
Due to the short duration, high-quality nature of these investments, price risk is closely correlated to interest rate risk.
The responsibility for investment management of which management of market risk is a key aspect is delegated by the Group, NSL and NICL boards to the Investment Committee.
The Investment Committee, chaired by the Group Finance Director, meets four times a year.
In addition, regular informal meetings are held with external investment managers.
The principal responsibilities of the Committee include determining an investment strategy consistent with risk appetite, setting guidelines and benchmarks based on that agreed investment strategy and recommending the appointment or removal of investment managers.
Funds are managed on a total return basis.
The general objective is to manage financial assets on the basis that there should be less than a 10% probability of a total negative return greater than 1.0% in any given financial year.
The Investment Committee reviews the monitoring of exposures and undertakes stress and scenario testing.
The Group manages interest-rate risk by investing in short duration financial investments and cash and cash equivalents.
Investment objectives, restrictions and guidelines are agreed with all investment managers.
Key guidelines for investment portfolios during 2008 were: Syndicate Premium Syndicate Premium Funds at Trust Funds Trust Funds Lloyds run-off ongoing NICL AAA rated government, supranational, other quasi-sovereign securities and UCIT Money Market funds: cash instruments issued by A1 P1 rated Approved Credit Institutions Minimum 75% 100% Minimum 50% Minimum 75% UK government gilts Minimum 25% Not speci ed Not speci ed Minimum 25% Securities issued by any one issuer excluding UK US governments Maximum 2.5% Maximum 2.5% Maximum 2.5% Maximum 2.5% Corporate securities with explicit UK US government guarantee Maximum 5% Maximum 5% Maximum 5% Maximum 5% increasing to 10% for securities with an AAA rating.
In early 2009, in conjunction with its capital modelling process, the Group reviewed its investment risk appetite.
As a result, it amended certain parameters of its investment guidelines excluding those for run-off portfolios to allow a greater weighting towards investment grade corporate bonds.
These amended guidelines are currently being adopted by the Groups investment managers on a rolling basis.
The new key guidelines for investment portfolios are: Corporate securities: not to exceed 50% Corporate securities below AA rating: not to exceed 10%, of which BBB is the minimum and may form no more than 5% of the total Corporate securities issued by any one issuer: not to exceed 5% Corporate securities below AA rating issued by any one issuer: not to exceed 1% Equities, asset backed securities, mortgage backed securities, hedge funds, derivatives and structured products are not permitted within the portfolios.
Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 79 Duration is a commonly used measure of volatility and gives an indication of the likely sensitivity of the Groups portfolio to changes in interest rates.
The average duration for financial assets is shown in the following table which excludes cash balances.
At 31 December 2008: Average duration m years Funds at Lloyds 174.6 0.5 Syndicate Premium Trust Funds 216.8 0.5 Novae Insurance Company Limited 131.2 0.6 At 31 December 2007: Average duration m years Funds at Lloyds 217.4 0.4 Syndicate Premium Trust Funds 235.8 0.4 Novae Insurance Company Limited 117.5 0.6 Weighted average duration during 2008 was restricted to two years maximum.
During 2009 this restriction has been replaced for all portfolios excluding run-off with the following: Neutral average duration: three years Maximum average duration: up to four years An increase of 100 basis points in interest yields, with all other variables constant, would decrease the valuation of the Groups investments by an estimated 3.0 million 2007: 2.8 million.
A comparable decrease would increase the valuation by the same amount.
The Group makes interest payments for borrowings.
Further details are provided in notes 8 and 24.
An increase of 100 basis points in interest yields, with all other variables constant, would result in an increase to finance charges of an estimated 0.1 million 2007: 0.1 million.
A comparable decrease would decrease the charges by the same amount.
Foreign exchange risk Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the value and future cash ows of a financial instrument will uctuate due to changes in foreign exchange rates.
Insurance reserves and other liabilities derived from business transacted in foreign currencies expose the Group to foreign exchange risk.
Premium income cash ows from the underwriting of business originating outside the UK are the primary source of funds for the purchase of investments denominated in the same foreign currency, acting as an economic hedge to reduce Novaes exposure to exchange-rate uctuations.
The Group maintains ledger balances in five main currencies: sterling, US dollars, Canadian dollars, Australian dollars and euros.
Transactions in other currencies are converted into sterling on initial recognition.
By far the most important non-sterling currency exposure relates to the US dollar: in addition to US situs business, exposure arises from many classes where business outside the USA is typically transacted in this currency for example a signi cant proportion of marine and aviation business.
The Group has adopted a general approach whereby it aims to manage foreign-exchange exposure by analysing its US dollar pro ts for each open underwriting year.
US dollar pro ts receivable within 12 months are fully matched, whereas 75% of US dollar pro ts receivable between 12 and 24 months are matched.
All other US dollar pro ts remain unmatched against losses.
The Board reviews the application of this general policy at least once annually.
Pro ts in other currencies remain unhedged.
Foreign exchange risk can be monitored because the Group maintains ledgers in individual currencies where practical.
The analysis is based on the current information available and our assumptions in making this assessment are: The closing year end spot rates and average rates throughout the year are 10% higher There is no active hedging of currency during the period The analysis includes an estimate of the impact on our foreign borrowings and cross-currency swaps The impact of foreign exchange on non-monetary items is assumed to be nil Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 81 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, although solvent, either does not have available suf cient resources to enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due or can only secure such resources at excessive cost.
Liquidity constraints can become manifest either as a shortfall of resources per se or by a lack of marketability of investment assets held.
Speci cally, liquidity risk exists to the extent that the Group is required to satisfy claims costs, ful l regulatory solvency and funding requirements and meet working capital needs.
A summary of the balance sheet by maturity date is as follows insurance contract liabilities and reinsurance contract assets have been analysed based on actuarial cash ow estimates : At 31 December 2008: 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total m m m m m Financial assets 420.5 34.7 20.8 2.3 478.3 Cash and cash equivalents 622.5 622.5 Insurance and other receivables 189.8 189.8 Reinsurance assets 116.2 86.3 193.2 14.5 410.2 Other assets 53.5 53.5 Total assets 1,402.5 121.0 214.0 16.8 1,754.3 Insurance contracts 329.6 239.6 553.6 154.5 1,277.3 Financial liabilities Loan notes 21.3 21.3 Subordinated notes 89.2 89.2 Insurance and other payables 66.0 66.0 Total liabilities 395.6 239.6 553.6 265.0 1,453.8 At 31 December 2007: 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total m m m m m Financial assets 518.7 33.4 18.4 0.7 571.2 Cash and cash equivalents 367.0 367.0 Insurance and other receivables 174.9 174.9 Reinsurance assets 93.3 68.5 107.0 72.1 340.9 Other assets 59.3 59.3 Total assets 1,213.2 101.9 125.4 72.8 1,513.3 Insurance contracts 259.0 197.7 310.0 307.4 1,074.1 Financial liabilities Convertible debt 10.2 10.2 Loan notes 19.3 19.3 Subordinated notes 97.6 97.6 Insurance and other payables 42.2 42.2 Total liabilities 311.4 197.7 310.0 424.3 1,243.4 www.
com 82 risk disclosures | continued Liquidity risk is monitored by the Capital and Liquidity sub-group of the Risk Committee, by the Group Investment Committee and at operating level by each subsidiary entity.
Group liquidity requirements are modelled on a monthly basis and reported to the Group Board on a rolling 12 month basis.
Liquidity within the Lloyds platform is considered monthly to re ect information arising from underwriting and reserving performance.
Stress testing of normalised cash ows is undertaken at least quarterly against the impact of catastrophic realistic disaster scenarios and potential overseas regulatory interaction.
The Groups investment appetite dictates the quality of investment assets held and, as a result, liquidity risk is mitigated by the retention of financial assets that are highly marketable.
The Group has secured a 20.0 million revolving credit facility with Lloyds TSB: this facility was undrawn at 31 December 2008.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with premium revenue generated by a number of different brokers across different geographic areas and underwriting units.
As a consequence, the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that intermediaries, assureds, reinsurers or borrowers may not be able or willing to meet their liabilities as they fall due.
The Groups portfolios of xed income securities are subject to credit risk.
The risk is fide ned as the potential loss in market value resulting from adverse changes in the borrowers ability to repay its debt.
The Group monitors its exposure to such credit risk by comparing the value and credit rating of its investments against a benchmark determined by the Investment Committee and this is reported to the Board monthly.
The investment guidelines discussed under market risk on page 78 protect the Group from credit risk.
Cash and cash equivalents, certi cates of deposit and oating rate notes are also subject to credit risk.
The Group regularly reviews counterparty concentrations.
At 31 December 2008, the only concentrations in excess of 10% were with Novaes two principal banks.
The Group underwrites insurance and reinsurance risk and reinsures a substantial portion of that risk with third party reinsurers.
There is a degree of credit risk associated with reinsuring to third parties and in order to manage this risk credit reviews of the underlying financial stability of the reinsurance entities are performed.
As already described, this is undertaken by the RISVC, which sets limits for individual reinsurers and monitors the usage of them.
The Group also has other receivable amounts subject to credit risk.
The most signi cant of these are amounts due from brokers.
To mitigate risk of these counterparties non-payment of amounts due, business and financial standards for broker approval are established.
The Groups exposure to individual brokers is monitored on a quarterly basis by the Broker Vetting Committee.
To monitor the Groups exposure to credit risk, the Group utilises ratings issued by agencies as follows: Financial assets Reinsurance assets Standard & Poors AM Best Standard & Poors AM Best Tier 1 Government AAA AAA AA A Tier 2 AA AA AAA Lloyds Tier 3 A A A AA ATier 4 BBB & below BBB & below B and below The Groups signi cant concentrations of credit risk are as follows: At 31 December 2008: Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Tier 4 Unrated Total m m m m m m Financial assets 256.5 18.0 16.6 187.2 478.3 Cash and cash equivalents 622.5 622.5 Insurance and other receivables 189.8 189.8 Reinsurance assets 4.7 256.4 139.6 9.5 410.2 Other assets 53.5 53.5 Total assets 261.2 274.4 156.2 1,062.5 1,754.3 Included within unrated fi financial assets are 186.8 million of certifi cates of deposit and fl oating rate notes and 0.4 million representing the Groups sole remaining legacy equity investment in Advent Capital Holdings PLC.
Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 83 At 31 December 2007: Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Tier 4 Unrated Total m m m m m m Financial assets 344.9 9.8 14.0 202.5 571.2 Cash and cash equivalents 367.0 367.0 Insurance and other receivables 174.9 174.9 Reinsurance assets 2.8 264.0 62.4 6.7 5.0 340.9 Other assets 59.3 59.3 Total assets 347.7 273.8 76.4 6.7 808.7 1,513.3 Included within unrated fi financial assets are 202.0 million of certifi cates of deposit and fl oating rate notes and 0.5 million representing the Groups sole remaining legacy equity investment in Advent Capital Holdings PLC.
Overdue insurance recoverables greater than 60 days as at 31 December 2008 was as follows: At 31 December 2008: 61-90 91-180 181-365 366 days days days days Total m m m m m Premium debt 0.2 0.3 0.5 Reinsurance recoverables 0.1 0.1 0.3 2.1 2.6 0.3 0.4 0.3 2.1 3.1 At 31 December 2007: 61-90 91-180 181-365 366 days days days days Total m m m m m Premium debt 0.3 0.1 0.4 Reinsurance recoverables 0.3 0.8 0.8 2.1 4.0 0.6 0.9 0.8 2.1 4.4 Financial assets are valued on a mark to market basis.
As Novae invests its financial assets in high-quality, short-duration instruments, no further provision for credit failure is made above recorded market bid price.
In determining the valuation of its reinsurance asset held, Novae has established a methodology for calculating the impairment provision.
In deriving this provision Novae considers both the risk of insolvency of reinsurer and the risk of unwillingness of the reinsurer to settle its liabilities, for example through the potential for dispute at a claim or contract level.
Provisions for insolvency risk are calculated by reference to Standard & Poors default risk percentages applying to each grade of reinsurer, with reference to a conservative long term outlook.
Reinsurance recoveries due from insolvent reinsurers are considered individually and a provision in excess of 50% has been applied.
An explicit provision is applied to recoveries to allow for unwillingness to pay regardless of the default quality of reinsurers.
Insurance receivables are assets primarily due from intermediaries such as insurance brokers and coverholders.
These entities do not tend to carry default ratings and as a result no formulaic provisioning is made.
However, speci c provisioning against insurance assets is considered on a case-by-case basis as necessary.
com 84 risk disclosures | continued Operational risk Operational risk is the risk that the failure of a management control or process may give rise to operational disruption and or financial loss.
The tolerance levels and the day-to-day monitoring of operational risk fall to the Risk Committee.
This includes representatives of Novae Group plc, NSL and NICL.
Operational risk is subject to continuous review.
The operational functions of the Group are managed by the Operations Committee.
It is chaired by the Group Finance Director and has members across all support functions.
It is responsible for monitoring all outsourcing undertaken by the Group, and a formal report on major outsourced contracts is considered quarterly.
Where appropriate, internal control reports are requested and reviewed for outsourced contracts.
Certain major risk categories are monitored through Key Performance Indicators KPIs and Key Risk Indicators KRIs.
These are prepared monthly and circulated to senior management, including all directors of Novae, NSL and NICL.
Business continuity planning is the speci c responsibility of the Chief Information Of cer.
There is an annual test of procedures for the IT back up.
Every two years a major scenario is run involving many staff across the Group.
During 2007, an external consultancy rm was employed to facilitate the assumption of an avian u scenario over a two-week period and evaluate managements response.
In addition to the KPIs and KRIs, a loss database of external events is compiled.
This is held by the Compliance Director and is aimed at non-underwriting risks which have affected Novae or one or more of our peers and which could theoretically occur at Novae in the future, either through the nature of the business undertaken or through a control breakdown.
There are further, less signi cant, external risks faced by the Group, including risk of regulatory change or intervention.
It is a matter of public record that the adoption of Solvency II and IFRS Phase II proposed for 2012 could result in a re-evaluation of the presentation of the Groups results.
Group risk Group risk is the risk that an intra-Group con ict of interest may arise, or that the financial condition or operational conduct of a subsidiary may produce systemic effects elsewhere.
These risks are managed by the Board of Novae Group plc.
Novae has little appetite for Group risk and in general terms transactions giving rise to potential or actual intra-Group risk or con icts of interest must be either avoided or, if unavoidable, be transparent and subject to appropriate governance and oversight.
A number of mitigating factors are in place to limit risk in this area as follows: Lines of communication are short and there is signi cant commonality of membership between the different governance bodies across the Group While transacting business worldwide, the Group operates in only one territory and transacts only insurance, reinsurance and ancillary related business All underwriting and asset and liability decisions are substantially taken from one location The number of corporate entities within the Group is small and all subsidiaries are wholly owned The capacity of the remaining third party natural names on Syndicate 2007 was acquired by the Group for the 2009 and subsequent years of account
