NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation Statement of compliance Old Mutual plc the Company is a company incorporated in England and Wales.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates and jointly controlled entities other than those held by long-term insurance funds.
The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
Both the Parent Company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs and IFRICs.
On publishing the Parent Company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these approved financial statements.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments, financial instruments classi ed as fair value through the income statement or as available for sale, owneroccupied property and investment property.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held-for-sale are stated at the lower of the previous carrying amount and the fair value less costs to sell.
The Parent Company financial statements are prepared in accordance with these accounting policies, other than for investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates, which are stated at cost less impairments see note 1e xi, in accordance with IAS 27.
The Company and Group financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis which the directors believe to be appropriate having taken into consideration the points as set out in the Directors Report in the section headed Going concern.
Judgments made by the directors in the applications of these accounting policies that have a signi cant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a signi cant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 1 q. b Foreign currency translation i Foreign currency transactions The Groups presentation currency is Pounds Sterling.
The functional currency of the Groups foreign operations is the currency of the primary economic environment in which these entities operate.
The Parent Company functional currency is Pounds Sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into the relevant functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into the functional currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair values were determined.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at historical cost are converted into the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the initial recognition of the asset and liability and are not subsequently retranslated.
Exchange gains and losses on the translation and settlement during the period of foreign currency assets and liabilities are recognised in the income statement.
Exchange differences for non-monetary items are recognised in equity when the changes in the fair value of the non-monetary item are recognised in equity, and in the income statement if the changes in fair value of the non-monetary item are recognised in the income statement.
ii Foreign investments The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated from their respective functional currencies into the Groups presentation curr ency using the year-end exchange rates, and their income and expenses using the average exchange rates.
Other than in respect of cumulative translation gains and losses up to 1 January 2004, unrealised gains or losses resulting from translation of functional currencies to the presentation currency are included as a separate component of shareholders equity.
To the extent that these gains and losses are effectively hedged, the gains and losses arising on the hedging instruments are also included in that component of shareholders equity.
Upon the disposal of subsidiaries the cumulative amount of exchange differences deferred in shareholders equity, net of attributable amounts in relation to net investments, is recognised in the income statement.
Cumulative translation gains and losses up to 1 January 2004 were reset to zero.
Page 146 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 1 Accounting policies continued c Group accounting i Subsidiary undertakings and special purpose entities Subsidiary undertakings are those entities controlled by the Group.
Subsidiary undertakings include special purpose entities created to accomplish a narrow, well-fide ned objective, which may take the form of a corporation, trust, partnership or unincorporated entities, and where the substance of the relationship between the Group and the entity indicates that the entity is controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain bene ts from its activities.
The Company considers the existence and effect of potential voting rights currently exercisable or convertible when assessing whether it has control.
Entities which the Company controls by virtue of the Company retaining the majority of risks or bene ts, are also included in the consolidated financial statements.
The Group financial statements include the assets, liabilities and results of the Company and subsidiary undertakings.
This includes consolidated special purpose entities and holdings in mutual funds.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal or control ceasing.
The consolidated financial statements do not include the wholly owned company  Skandia Skandia Liv and its subsidiaries.
Skandia Livs business is a mutual life assurance company that is highly regulated within a strict legal framework for mutual life assurance companies in Sweden, particularly in relation to its relationship with its holding company.
The Group does not have the power to control Skandia Liv in such a way as to access the bene ts usually associated with share ownership due to the legal and regulatory restrictions.
Those bene ts accrue to the policyholders of Skandia Liv.
Consequently, Skandia Liv is not consolidated.
The shares in Skandia Liv are accounted for in accordance with the accounting policies for equity financial instruments.
Intra-group balances and transactions, and all pro ts and losses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the Group financial statements.
Unrealised losses are not eliminated to the extent that they provide evidence of impairment.
ii Associates and jointly controlled operations An associate is an entity, including an unincorporated entity such as a partnership, over which the Group has signi cant in uence but not control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee and that is neither a subsidiary nor an investment in a joint venture.
A jointly controlled operation is a joint venture operated through a corporation, partnership or other entity in which each venturer has an interest.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement, whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control over the activity.
Joint control exists when the strategic financial and operating decisions relating to the activity require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The results, assets and liabilities of associates and jointly controlled operations are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
The carrying amount of such investments is reduced to recognise any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Where a Group enterprise transacts with an associate or jointly controlled operation of the Group, unrealised pro ts and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant associate or jointly controlled operation.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Investments in associates and jointly controlled operations, which are held with a view to subsequent resale are accounted for as non-current assets held-for-sale, and those held by policyholder long-term insurance funds are accounted for as financial assets fair valued through the income statement.
Page 147 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 1 Accounting policies continued d Insurance and investment contracts Long-term business i Classi cation of contracts Contracts sold as long-term business with the exception of unit-linked assurance contracts are categorised into insurance contracts, contracts with a discretionary participation feature or investment contracts in accordance with the classi cation criteria set out in the following paragraphs.
For the Groups unit-linked assurance business, contracts are separated into an insurance component and an investment component known as unbundling, and each unbundled component is accounted for separately in accordance with the accounting policy for that component.
Contracts under which the transfer of insurance risk to the Group from the policyholder is not signi cant are classi ed as investment contracts.
Contracts under which the Group accepts signi cant insurance risk from another party the policyholder by agreeing to compensate the policyholder or other bene ciary if a speci ed uncertain future event the insured event adversely affects the policyholder are classi ed as insurance contracts.
Insurance risk is risk other than financial risk.
Financial risk is the risk of a possible future change in one or more of a speci ed interest rate, security price, security index, commodity price, foreign exchange rate, index of prices or rates, a credit rating or credit index, or other variable, provided in the case of a nonfinancial variable that the variable is not speci c to a party to the contract.
Contracts with a discretionary participating feature are those under which the policyholder holds a contractual right to receive additional payments as a supplement to guaranteed minimum payments.
These additional payments, the amount or timing of which is at the Groups discretion, represent a signi cant portion of the total contractual payments and are contractually based on 1 the performance of a speci ed pool of contracts or a speci ed type of contract, 2 realised and or unrealised investment returns on a speci ed pool of assets held by the Group or 3 the pro t or loss of the Group.
Investment contracts with discretionary participating features are accounted for in the same manner as insurance contracts.
ii Premiums on long-term insurance Premiums and annuity considerations receivable under insurance contracts and investment contracts with a discretionary participating featur e are stated gross of commission, and exclude taxes and levies.
Premiums in respect of linked insurance contracts are recognised when the liability is established.
Premiums in respect of other insurance contracts and investment contracts with a discretionary participation feature are recognised when due for payment.
Outward reinsurance premiums are recognised when due for payment.
Amounts received under investment contracts other than those with a discretionary participating feature are recorded as deposits and credited directly to investment contract liabilities.
iii Revenue on investment management service contracts Fees charged for investment management services provided in conjunction with an investment contract are recognised as revenue as the services are provided.
Initial fees, which exceed the level of recurring fees and relate to the future provision of services are deferred and amortised over the anticipated period in which services will be provided.
Fees charged for investment management service contracts in our asset management businesses are also recognised on this basis.
iv Claims paid on long-term insurance Claims paid under insurance contracts and investment contracts with a discretionary participating feature include maturities, annuities, surrenders, death and disability payments.
Maturity and annuity claims are recorded as they fall due for payment.
Death and disability claims and surrenders are accounted for when noti ed.
Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
Amounts paid under investment contracts other than those with a discretionary participating feature are recorded as deductions from investment contract liabilities.
Page 148 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 1 Accounting policies continued d Insurance and investment contracts continued Long-term business continued v Insurance contract provisions Insurance contract provisions for African businesses have been computed using a gross premium valuation method.
Provisions in respect of African business have been made in accordance with the Financial Soundness Valuation basis as set out in the guidelines issued by the Actuarial Society of South Africa in Professional Guidance Note PGN 104 2001.
Under this guideline, provisions are valued using realistic expectations of future experience, with margins for prudence and deferral of pro t emergence.
Provisions for investment contracts with a discretionary participating feature are also computed using the gross premium valuation method in accordance with the Financial Soundness Valuation basis.
Surplus allocated to policyholders but not yet distributed i. e. bonus smoothing reserve related to these contracts is included as a provision.
For the US business, the insurance contract provisions are calculated using the net premium method, based on assumptions as to investment yields, mortality, withdrawals and policyholder dividends.
For the term life products, the assumptions are set at the time the contracts are issued, whereas the assumptions are updated annually, based on experience for the annuity products.
Universal life and deferred annuity reserves are computed on the retrospective deposit method, which produces reserves equal to the cash value of the contracts.
Reserves on immediate annuities and guaranteed payments are computed on the prospective deposit method, which produces reserves equal to the present value of future bene t payments.
For other territories, the valuation bases adopted are in accordance with local actuarial practices and methodologies.
Derivatives embedded in an insurance contract are not separated and measured at fair value if the embedded derivative itself quali es for recognition as an insurance contract.
In this case the entire contract is measured as described above.
The Group performs liability adequacy testing on its insurance liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of its liabilities less related deferred acquisition costs and intangible assets is suf cient in view of estimated future cash ows.
When performing the liability adequacy test, the Group discounts all contractual cash ows and compares this amount to the carrying value of the liability at discount rates appropriate to the business in question.
Where a shortfall is identi ed, an additional provision is made.
The provision estimation techniques and assumptions are periodically reviewed, with any changes in estimates re ected in the income statement as they occur.
Whilst the directors consider that the gross insurance contract provisions and the related reinsurance recoveries are fairly stated on the basis of the information currently available to them, the ultimate liability will vary as a result of subsequent information and events and may result in signi cant adjustments to the amount provided.
The Group applies shadow accounting in relation to certain insurance contract provisions in the South Africa long-term business, and DAC and PVIF assets in the United States long-term business, in respect of owner occupied properties or available for sale financial assets, in order for recognised unrealised gains or losses on those assets to affect the measurement of the insurance contract provisions, DAC or PVIF assets in the same way that recognised realised gains or losses do.
In respect of the South Africa long-term business, shadow accounting is applied to insurance contract provisions where the underlying measurement of the policyholder liability depends directly on the value of owner-occupied property and the unrealised gains and losses on such property, which are recognised in equity.
The shadow accounting adjustment to insurance contract provisions is recognised in equity to the extent that the unrealised gains or losses on owner-occupied property backing insurance contract provisions are also recognised directly in equity.
In respect of the United States long-term business, shadow accounting adjustments are made to the amortisation of DAC and PVIF assets in respect of unrealised gains and losses on available for sale financial assets to the extent that those unrealised gains and losses would impact the calculation of DAC or PVIF amortisation were they recognised in income.
The shadow DAC and PVIF amortisation charge is recognised in equity in line with the unrealised gains and losses on the relevant financial assets until such time as those assets are sold or otherwise disposed of, at which point the accumulated amortisation recognised in equity is recycled to the income statement in the same way as the unrealised gains or losses on those financial assets.
Financial guarantee contracts are recognised as insurance contracts.
Liability adequacy testing is performed to ensure that the carrying amount of the liability for financial guarantee contracts is suf cient.
Page 149 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 1 Accounting policies continued d Insurance and investment contracts continued Long-term business continued vi Investment contract liabilities Investment contract liabilities in respect of the Groups US long-term non-linked business are measured at fair value.
Investment contract liabilities for non-linked business in the Groups other territories are measured at fair value, determined by reference to the fair value of the underlying assets.
For linked liabilities, including the deposit component of unbundled unit-linked assurance contracts, fair value is calculated as the account balance, which is the value of the units allocated to the policyholder, based on the bid price of the assets in the underlying fund adjusted for tax.
Investment contract liabilities measured at fair value are subject to a deposit oor such that the liability established cannot be less than the amount repayable on demand.
Derivatives embedded in investment contracts are separated and measured at fair value, when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract liability is calculated on an amortised cost basis.
vii Acquisition costs Acquisition costs for insurance contracts comprise all direct and indirect costs arising from the sale of insurance contracts.
As the gross premium valuation method used in African territories to determine insurance contract provisions makes implicit allowance for the deferral of acquisition costs, no explicit deferred acquisition cost asset is recognised in the balance sheet for the contracts issued in these areas.
For the US life insurance business, an explicit deferred acquisition cost asset is established in the balance sheet.
Deferred acquisition costs are amortised over the period that pro ts on the related insurance policies are expected to emerge.
Acquisition costs are deferred to the extent that they are deemed recoverable from available future pro t margins.
Deferral of costs on insurance business in other territories is limited to the extent that they are deemed recoverable from available future margins.
viii Costs incurred in acquiring investment management service contracts Incremental costs that are directly attributable to securing an investment management service contract are recognised as an asset if they can be identi ed separately and measured reliably and it is probable that they will be recovered.
Deferred acquisition costs represent the contractual right to bene t from providing investment management services and are amortised as the related revenue is recognised.
Costs attributable to investment management service contracts in the asset management businesses are also recognised on this basis.
General insurance business All classes of general insurance business are accounted for on an annual basis.
ix Premiums on general insurance Premiums stated gross of commissions exclude taxes and levies and are accounted for in the period in which the risk commences.
The proportion of the premiums written relating to periods of risk after the balance sheet date is carried forward to subsequent accounting periods as unearned premiums, so that earned premiums relate to risks carried during the accounting period.
Outward reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the premiums for the related direct insurance.
x Claims on general insurance Claims incurred comprise the settlement and handling costs of paid and outstanding claims arising during the year and adjustments to prior year claim provisions.
Outstanding claims comprise claims incurred up to, but not paid, at the end of the accounting period, whether reported or not.
Outstanding claims do not include any provision for possible future claims where the claims arise under contracts not in existence at the balance sheet date.
The Group performs liability adequacy testing on its claim liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of its liabilities less related deferred acquisition costs and the unearned premium reserve is suf cient in view of estimated future cash ows.
Whilst the directors consider that the gross provisions for claims and the related reinsurance recoveries are fairly stated on the basis of the information currently available to them, the ultimate liability will vary as a result of subsequent information and events, and may result in signi cant adjustments to the amount provided.
Adjustments to the amounts of claims provisions established in prior years are re ected in the financial statements for the period in which the adjustments are made, and disclosed separately if material.
The methods used and estimates made are reviewed regularly Page 150 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 1 Accounting policies continued d Insurance and investment contracts continued General insurance business continued xi Acquisition costs on general insurance Acquisition costs, which represent commission and other related expenses, are deferred and amortised over the period in which the related premiums are earned.
xii Reinsurance The Group cedes reinsurance in the normal course of business for the purpose of limiting its net loss potential through the diversi cation of its risks.
Assets, liabilities and income and expense arising from ceded reinsurance contracts are presented separately from the related assets, liabilities, income and expense from the related insurance contracts because the reinsurance arrangements do not relieve the Group from its direct obligations to its policyholders.
Only rights under contracts that give rise to a signi cant transfer of insurance risk are accounted for as reinsurance assets.
Rights under contracts that do not transfer signi cant insurance risk are accounted for as financial instruments.
Reinsurance premiums for ceded reinsurance are recognised as an expense on a basis that is consistent with the recognition basis for the premiums on the related insurance contracts.
For general insurance business, reinsurance premiums are expensed over the period that the reinsurance cover is provided based on the expected pattern of the reinsured risks.
The unexpensed portion of ceded reinsurance premiums is included in reinsurance assets.
The net amounts paid to a reinsurer at the inception of a contract may be less than the reinsurance assets recognised by the Group in respect of its rights under such contracts.
Any difference between the premium due to the reinsurer and the reinsurance asset recognised is included in the income statement in the period in which the reinsurance premium is due.
The amounts recognised as reinsurance assets are measured on a basis that is consistent with the measurement of the provisions held in respect of the related insurance contracts.
Reinsurance assets include recoveries due from reinsurance companies in respect of claims paid.
Reinsurance assets are assessed for impairment at each balance sheet date.
An asset is deemed impaired if there is objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred after its initial recognition, that the Group may not recover all amounts due, and that the event has a reliably measurable impact on the amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer.
e Financial instruments i Recognition and fide-recognition A financial asset or liability is recognised when, and only when, the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument.
The Group fide-recognises a financial asset when, and only when: The contractual rights to the cash ows arising from the financial assets have expired or been forfeited by the Group: or It transfers the financial asset including substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset: or It transfers and no longer controls the financial asset, regardless of whether it has retained or transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
A financial liability is fide-recognised when and only when the liability is extinguished, that is, when the obligation speci ed in the contract is discharged, assigned, cancelled or has expired.
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability or part thereof extinguished or transferred to another party and consideration received, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the income statement.
All purchases and sales of financial assets that require delivery within the time frame established by regulation or market convention regular way purchases and sales are recognised at trade date, which is the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Otherwise such transactions are treated as derivatives until settlement occurs.
Loans and receivables are recognised at fair value plus attributable transaction costs when cash is advanced to borrowers.
Page 151 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 1 Accounting policies continued e Financial instruments continued ii Initial measurement Financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at fair value through the income statement, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset or financial liability.
Where the transaction price of a financial instrument in a non-active market is different to the fair value from other observable current market transactions in the same instrument, or based on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets, the Group defers such differences day-one gains or losses.
Day-one gains or losses are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the instrument.
To the extent that the inputs determining the fair value of the instrument become observable, or when the instrument is fide-recognised, day-one gains or losses are recognised immediately in the income statement.
iii Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.
Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices, discounted cash ow models and option pricing models as appropriate.
All derivatives are carried as assets when their fair value is positive and as liabilities when their fair value is negative.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives not designated as hedges for hedge accounting purposes are included in investment income or finance costs as appropriate.
iv Hedge accounting Qualifying hedging instruments must either be derivative financial instruments or non derivative financial instruments used to hedge the risk of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in fair value or changes in cash ows.
Changes in the value of the financial instrument should be expected to offset changes in the fair value or cash ows of the underlying hedged item.
The Group designates certain qualifying hedging instruments as either 1 a hedge of the exposure to changes in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised rm commitment fair value hedge : 2 a hedge of a future cash ow attributable to a recognised asset or liability, or a forecasted transaction, and could affect pro t or loss cash ow hedge : or, 3 a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.
Hedge accounting is used for qualifying hedging instruments designated in this way provided certain criteria are met.
The Groups criteria for a qualifying hedging instrument to be accounted for as a hedge include: Upfront formal documentation of the hedging instrument, hedged item or transaction, risk management objective and strategy, the nature of the risk being hedged and the effectiveness measurement methodology that will be applied is prepared before hedge accounting is adopted: The hedge is documented showing that it is expected to be highly effective in offsetting the changes in the fair value or cash ows attributable to the hedged risk, consistent with the risk management and strategy detailed in the upfront hedge documentation: The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured: The hedge is assessed and determined to have been highly effective on an ongoing basis: and For cash ow hedges of a forecast transaction, an assessment that it is highly probable that the hedged transaction will occur and will carry pro t and loss risk.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges and that prove to be highly effective in relation to hedged risk, are recorded in the income statement, along with the corresponding change in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to that speci c hedged risk.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ow hedges or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation and that prove to be highly effective in relation to the hedged risk are recognised in equity.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
Any previous adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged interest-bearing financial instrument carried at amortised cost, as a result of previous hedge accounting, is amortised in the income statement from the date hedge accounting ceases, to the maturity date of the financial instrument, based on the effective interest method.
For hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, any cumulative gains or losses recognised in equity are recognised in the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
v Embedded derivatives Certain derivatives embedded in other financial and nonfinancial instruments other than investment contracts, such as the conversion option in a convertible bond, are treated as separate derivatives and recognised as such on a stand alone basis, when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not carried at fair value with unrealised gains and losses reported in the income statement.
If it is not possible to determine the fair value of the embedded derivative, the entire hybrid instrument is categorised as fair value through the income statement and measured at fair value.
Page 152 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 1 Accounting policies continued e Financial instruments continued vi Offsetting financial instruments and related income Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet only when there is a legally enforceable right to set off and there is intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Income and expense items are offset only to the extent that their related instruments have been offset in the balance sheet, with the exception of those relating to hedges, which are disclosed in accordance with the income statement effect of the hedged item.
vii Interest income and expense Interest income and expense in relation to financial instruments carried at amortised cost or held as available for sale is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method taking into account the expected timing and amount of cash ows.
Interest income and expense include the amortisation of any discount or premium or other differences between the initial carrying amount of an interest-bearing instrument and its amount at maturity calculated on an effective interest basis.
Interest earned on financial assets carried at fair value through the income statement is presented as part of interest income.
viii Non-interest revenue Non-interest revenue in respect of financial instruments principally comprises fees and commission and other operating income.
These are accounted for as set out below: Fees and commission income Loan origination fees for loans that are probable of being drawn down, are deferred together with related direct costs and recognised as an adjustment to the effective yield on the loan.
Fees and commission arising from negotiating, or participating in the negotiation of a transaction for a third party, such as the acquisition of loans, shares or other securities or the purchase or sale of businesses, are recognised on completion of the underlying transaction.
Other Revenue other than interest, fees and commission including fees and insurance premiums, which includes exchange and securities trading income, dividends from investments and net gains on the sale of banking assets, is recognised in the income statement when the amount of revenue from the transaction or service can be measured reliably, it is probable that the economic bene ts of the transaction or service will ow to the Group and the costs associated with the transaction or service can be measured reliably.
ix Financial assets Financial assets other than derivatives are recorded as held-for-trading, designated as fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity or available for sale.
An analysis of the Groups balance sheet, showing the categorisation of financial assets, together with financial liabilities is set out in note 31.
Held-for-trading financial assets Held-for-trading financial assets are those that were either acquired for generating a pro t from short-term uctuations in price or dealers margin, or are securities included in a portfolio in which a pattern of short-term pro t taking exists, or are derivatives that are not designated as effective hedging instruments.
Financial assets designated as fair value through the income statement Financial assets that the Group has elected to designate as fair value through the income statement are those where the treatment either eliminates or signi cantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise when using a different measurement basis for instance with respect to financial assets supporting insurance contract provisions or are managed, evaluated and reported using a fair value basis for instance financial assets supporting shareholder funds.
All financial assets carried at fair value through the income statement, whether held-for-trading or designated, are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently re-measured at fair value based on quoted bid prices.
If quoted bid prices are unavailable the fair value of the financial asset is estimated using pricing models or discounted cash ow techniques.
Where discounted cash ow techniques are used, estimated future cash ows are based on managements best estimates and the discount rate used is a market-related rate at the balance sheet date for an instrument with similar terms and conditions.
Where pricing models are used, inputs are based on market-related measures at the balance sheet date.
Realised and unrealised fair value gains and losses on all financial assets carried at fair value through the income statement are included in Investment return non-banking or in Banking trading, investment and similar income as appropriate.
Interest earned whilst holding financial assets at fair value through the income statement is reported within Investment return non-banking or Banking interest and similar income, as appropriate.
Dividends receivable are included separately in dividend income, within Investment return non-banking or Banking trading, investment and similar income, when a dividend is declared.
Page 153 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 1 Accounting policies continued e Financial instruments continued ix Financial assets continued Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, other than those classi ed by the Group as fair value through income statement or available for sale.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost, less any impairment write-downs.
Third party expenses such as legal fees incurred in securing a loan are treated as part of the cost of the transaction.
Held-to-maturity financial assets Financial assets with xed maturity dates which are quoted in an active market and where management has both the intent and the ability to hold the asset to maturity are classi ed as held-to-maturity.
These assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment write-downs.
Interest earned on held-to-maturity financial assets is reported within Investment return non-banking or Banking interest and similar income, as appropriate.
Available for sale financial assets Financial assets intended to be held for an inde nite period of time, which may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices other than those designated fair value through income statement or as loans and receivables are classi ed as available for sale.
Management determines the appropriate classi cation of its investments at the time of the purchase.
Available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value based on quoted bid prices.
If quoted bid prices are unavailable or determined to be unreliable, the fair value of the financial asset is estimated using pricing models or discounted cash ow techniques.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of available for sale financial assets are recognised in equity.
When available for sale financial assets are disposed the related accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement as gains and losses from available for sale financial assets.
When available for sale assets are impaired the resulting loss is shown separately in the income statement as an impairment charge.
Interest earned on available for sale financial assets is reported within Investment return non-banking or Banking interest and similar income, as appropriate.
Dividends receivable are included separately in dividend income, within Investment return non-banking or Banking trading, investment and similar income, as appropriate when a dividend is declared.
x Sale and repurchase agreements and lending of securities Securities sold subject to linked repurchase agreements are retained in the financial statements as appropriate when considering the fide-recognition criteria contained within IAS 39.
The securities that are retained in the financial statements are re ected as trading or investment securities and the counterparty liability is included in amounts owed to other depositors, deposits from other banks, or other money market deposits, as appropriate.
Securities purchased under agreements to resell at a pre-determined price are recorded as loans and advances to other banks or customers as appropriate.
The difference between the sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and accrued over the lives of agreements using the effective interest method.
Securities lent to counter parties are also retained in the financial statements and any interest earned recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Securities borrowed are not recognised in the financial statements, unless these are sold to third parties, in which case the purchase and sale are recorded with the gain or loss included in trading income.
The obligation to return them is recorded at fair value as a trading liability.
xi Impairments of financial assets Loans and advances categorised as loans and receivables A provision for impairment of loans and advances categorised as loans and receivables is established if there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due from the asset.
The amount of the impairment is the difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount, being the present value of expected cash ows, including amounts recoverable from guarantees and collateral, discounted based on the effective interest rate at inception.
The impairment provision also covers losses where there is objective evidence that losses are present in components of the loan portfolio at the balance sheet date, but these components have not yet been speci cally identi ed.
When a loan is uncollectable, it is written off against the related impairment provision.
Subsequent recoveries are credited to the income statement.
If the amount of impairment subsequently decreases due to an event occurring after the write-down, the release of the impairment provision is credited to the income statement.
Impairment reversals are limited to what the carrying amount would have been, had no impairment losses been recognised.
Interest income on impaired loans and receivables is recognised on the impaired amount using the original effective interest rate before the impairment.
Page 154 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 1 Accounting policies continued e Financial instruments continued xi Impairments of financial assets continued Other financial assets carried at amortised cost, and available for sale financial assets Other financial assets are deemed to be impaired when there is objective evidence to suggest that one or more events has occurred subsequent to the initial recognition of the asset and that event s has an impact on the estimated future cash ows of the asset that can be reliably measured.
The amount of the impairment loss for other financial assets carried at amortised cost is calculated as being the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of expected future cash ows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount, for assets classi ed as available for sale and measured at fair value, is the present value of expected future cash ows discounted at the current market rate of interest for a similar financial asset.
All such impairments are recognised in the income statement.
Where there is evidence of the reversal of the impairment of a financial asset held at amortised cost, the release of the impairment allowance is credited to the income statement.
This is consistent with the initial recognition of impairment charges.
Where there is evidence of a reversal of the impairment of an available for sale financial asset the accounting presentation of the release of the corresponding impairment allowance depends on the type of instrument concerned.
The release of an impairment allowance in respect of a debt instrument categorised as available for sale is credited to the income statement, the release in respect of an equity instrument categorised as available for sale is credited to the available for sale reserve within equity.
xii Financial liabilities other than investment contracts Financial liabilities, including borrowed funds, amounts owed to depositors and liabilities under acceptances, are recorded as held-for-trading, designated as fair value through the income statement or as financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Liabilities that the Group has elected to designate as fair value through the income statement are those where the treatment either eliminates or signi cantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise when using a different measurement basis and are managed, evaluated and reported using a fair value basis.
For financial liabilities recorded at fair value and which contain a demand feature, the fair value of the liability is not less than the amount payable on demand, discounted from the first date that the amount could be required to be paid.
Financial liabilities categorised at amortised cost are recognised initially at fair value, which is normally represented by the transaction price, less directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition these financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Conversion options included within financial liabilities are recorded separately in shareholders equity.
The Group does not recognise any change in the value of this option in subsequent periods.
The remaining obligation to make future payments of principal and interest to bondholders is calculated using a market interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond and is presented on the amortised cost basis in other borrowed funds until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds.
If the Group purchases its own debt, it is removed from the balance sheet and the difference between the carrying amount of a liability and the consideration paid is included in other income.
Page 155 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 1 Accounting policies continued e Financial instruments continued xiii Reclassi cations of financial assets A non-derivative financial asset that would have met the fide nition of loans and receivables at initial recognition that was required to be categorised as held-for-trading on the basis that it was held for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term may be reclassi ed out of the fair value through income statement category if the Group intends and is able to hold the financial asset for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
If a financial asset is so reclassi ed, it is reclassi ed at its fair value on the date of reclassi cation.
Any gain or loss already recognised in pro t or loss is not reversed.
The fair value at the date of reclassi cation becomes its new cost or amortised cost, as applicable.
Other non-derivative financial assets that were required to be categorised as held-for-trading at initial recognition may be reclassi ed out of the fair value through income statement category in rare circumstances.
Measurement of the asset after reclassi cation depends on the subsequent categorisation.
A non-derivative financial asset that would have met the fide nition of loans and receivables at initial recognition that was designated as available for sale may be reclassi ed out of the available for sale category to the loans and receivables category if it meets the loans and receivables fide nition at the date of reclassi cation and if the Group intends and is able to hold the financial asset for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
In the case of a financial asset with a xed maturity, the gain or loss already recognised in the available for sale reserve in equity is amortised to pro t or loss over the remaining life using the effective interest method together with any difference between the new amortised cost and the maturity amount.
In the case of a financial asset that does not have a xed maturity, the gain or loss already recognised in the available for sale reserve in equity is recognised in pro t or loss when the financial asset is sold or otherwise disposed of.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of the amendments, issued in October 2008 to IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement relating to the reclassi cation of financial assets, certain qualifying financial assets held by the Group during the period up to and including 1 July 2008 have been reclassi ed as of that date and based on the fair value at that date.
This represents a change of accounting policy in the current financial year.
As the amendment applied from 1 July 2008, there were no retrospective changes to the financial statements.
Details of all reclassi cations of financial assets in accordance with the above accounting policies are shown in note 31. xiv Parent Company investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates Parent Company investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates are recorded at cost.
Impairments of Parent Company investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates are accounted for in the same way as impairments of other nonfinancial assets see section 1 h. f Tax Income tax on the pro t or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly to equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
i Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
ii Deferred tax Deferred taxation is provided using the balance sheet liability method, based on temporary differences.
Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and their tax base.
The amount of deferred taxation provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation is charged to the income statement except to the extent that it relates to a transaction that is recognised directly in equity, or a business combination that is an acquisition.
The effect on deferred taxation of any changes in tax rates is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items previously charged or credited directly to equity.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable income will be available, against which the unutilised tax losses and deductible temporary differences can be used.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax bene ts will be realised.
In certain circumstances, as permitted by accounting guidance, deferred tax balances are not recognised.
In particular where the liability relates to the initial recognition of goodwill, or transactions that are not a business combination and at the time of their occurrence affect neither accounting or taxable pro t. Note 20 includes further detail of circumstances in which the Group does not recognise temporary differences.
Page 156 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 1 Accounting policies continued g Intangible assets i Goodwill and goodwill impairment All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
At acquisition date, the Group recognises the fair value of the acquirees identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that satisfy the recognition criteria.
The cost of a business combination is the fair value of purchase consideration due at date of acquisition plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Contingent purchase consideration is recognised to the extent that it is probable and can be measured reliably.
Any minority interest in the acquiree is stated at the minoritys proportion of the net fair values of those items.
Any excess between the cost of the business combination and the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
Goodwill is adjusted for any subsequent re-measurement of contingent purchase consideration.
In accordance with the exemptions permitted under IFRS 1 First-Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, business combinations that took place prior to 1 January 2004 have not been restated.
Purchased goodwill is allocated to one or more cash-generating units CGUs, being the smallest identi able group of assets that generates cash in ows that are largely independent of the cash in ows from other assets or group of assets.
The directors annually test for impairment of each CGU containing goodwill and intangible assets with inde nite useful lives.
Where businesses are acquired as part of the same investment acquisition, these are combined for determining recoverability of the related goodwill.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
However, impairment losses relating to goodwill are not reversed.
ii Present value of acquired in-force for insurance and investment contract business The present value of acquired in-force for insurance and investment contract business is capitalised in the consolidated balance sheet as an intangible asset.
The capitalised value is the present value of cash ows anticipated in the future from the relevant book of insurance and investment contract policies acquired.
This is calculated by performing a cash ow projection of the associated long-term fund and book of in-force policies in order to estimate future after tax pro ts attributable to shareholders.
The valuation is based on actuarial principles taking into account future premium income, mortality, disease and surrender probabilities, together with future costs and investment returns on the assets supporting the fund.
These pro ts are discounted at a rate of return allowing for the risk of uncertainty of the future cash ows.
The key assumptions impacting the valuation are discount rate, future investment returns and the rate at which policies discontinue.
The asset is amortised over the expected pro t recognition period on a systematic basis over the anticipated lives of the related contracts.
The amortisation charge is stated net of any unwind in the discount rate used to calculate the asset.
The recoverable amount of the asset is re-calculated at each balance sheet date and any impairment losses recognised accordingly.
iii Other intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination Contractual banking and asset management customer relationships, relationships with distribution channels and similar intangible assets, acquired as a part of a business combination, are capitalised at their fair value, represented by the estimated net present value of the future cash ows from the relevant relationships acquired at the date of acquisition.
Brands and similar items acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at their fair value based on a relief from royalty valuation methodology.
Subsequent to initial recognition such acquired intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as set out below: Distribution channels 10 years Customer relationships 10 years Brand 15 20 years The estimated life is re-evaluated on a regular basis.
Page 157 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 1 Accounting policies continued g Intangible assets continued iv Internally developed software Internally developed software is amortised over its estimated useful life.
Such assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Software is recognised in the balance sheet if, and only if, it is probable that the relevant future economic bene ts attributable to the software will ow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
Costs incurred in the research phase are expensed whereas costs incurred in the development phase are capitalised subject to meeting speci c criteria, set out in the relevant accounting guidance.
The main criteria being that future economic bene ts can be identi ed as a result of the development expenditure.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the relevant software, which range between two and five years.
v Subsequent expenditure Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic bene ts embodied in the speci c asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
h Impairment all assets other than goodwill, deferred tax assets and financial assets The Group assesses all assets other than goodwill, deferred tax assets and financial assets on an ongoing basis for indications of impairment or whether a previously recognised impairment loss should be reversed.
If such indicators are found to exist, then detailed impairment testing is carried out.
Impairments where the carrying value of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount and the reversal of previously recognised impairments are recognised in the income statement.
i Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Owner-occupied property is stated at revalued amounts, being fair value at the date of revaluation less subsequent accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Plant and equipment, principally computer equipment, motor vehicles, xtures and furniture, is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
In accordance with the exemptions permitted under IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, individual terms of property, plant and equipment held at 1 January 2004 were measured at fair value, which was deemed to be their cost at that date.
ii Subsequent expenditure Subsequent expenditure is capitalised when it is measurable and will result in probable future economic bene ts.
Expenditure incurred to replace a separate component of an item of owner-occupied property, plant and equipment is capitalised to the cost of the item of owner-occupied property, plant and equipment and the component replaced is fide-recognised.
All other expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense when incurred.
iii Revaluation of owner-occupied property Owner-occupied property is valued on the same basis as investment property.
When an individual property is revalued, any increase in its carrying amount as a result of the revaluation is transferred to a revaluation reserve, except to the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease of the same property previously recognised as an expense in the income statement.
When the value of an individual property is decreased as a result of a revaluation, the decrease is charged against any related credit balance in the revaluation reserve in respect of that property.
However, to the extent that it exceeds any surplus, it is recognised as an expense in the income statement.
iv fide-recognition On fide-recognition of an owner-occupied property or item of plant and equipment, any gain or loss on disposal, determined as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, is included in the income statement in the period of the fiderecognition.
In the case of owner-occupied property, any surplus in the revaluation reserve in respect of the individual property is transferred directly to retained earnings.
Page 158 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 1 Accounting policies continued i Property, plant and equipment continued v Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of items of owner-occupied property, plant and equipment that are accounted for separately.
In the case of owner-occupied property, any accumulated depreciation at revaluation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the property concerned and the net amount restated to the revalued amount.
Subsequent depreciation charges are adjusted based on the revalued amount for each property.
Any difference between the depreciation charge on the revalued amount and that which would have been charged under historic cost is transferred, net of any related deferred tax, between the revaluation reserve and retained earnings as the property is utilised.
The maximum estimated useful lives are as follows: Computer equipment 5 years Computer software 3 years Motor vehicles 6 years Fixtures and furniture 10 years Leasehold property 20 years Freehold property 50 years vi Leases Operating leases Leases where the lessor retains the risks and rewards of ownership of the underlying asset are classi ed as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged against income on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Finance leases Lease agreements where the Group substantially accepts the risks and rewards of the ownership of the leased asset are classi ed as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant interest rate on the outstanding balance of the liability.
Finance lease obligations, net of finance charges, are included in liabilities.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period according to the effective interest method.
Where applicable, assets acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Where assets are leased out under a finance lease arrangement, the present value of the lease payments is recognised as a receivable.
Initial direct costs are included in the initial measurement of the receivable.
The difference between the gross receivable and unearned finance income is presented in the balance sheet.
Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods to re ect a constant periodic rate of return on the Groups net investment outstanding in respect of the leases.
Assets leased out under operating leases are included under property, plant and equipment in the balance sheet.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised as an expense over the lease term on the same basis as the rental income.
Leased assets are depreciated over their expected useful lives on a basis consistent with similar assets.
Rental income net of any incentives given to lessees is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
When another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern of the users bene t, then that method is used.
j Investment properties Investment property is real estate held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation.
It does not include real estate held for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes.
Investment properties are stated at fair value.
Internal professional valuers perform valuations annually.
For practical reasons, valuations are carried out on a cyclical basis over a twelve-month period due to the large number of properties involved.
External valuations are obtained once every three years on a cyclical basis.
In the event of a material change in market conditions between the valuation date and balance sheet date an internal valuation is performed and adjustments made to re ect any material changes in value.
The valuation methodology adopted is dependent upon the nature of the property.
Income generating assets are valued using discounted cash ows.
Vacant land, land holdings and residential ats are valued according to sales of comparable properties.
Near vacant properties are valued at land value less the estimated cost of demolition.
Surpluses and fide cits arising from changes in fair value are re ected in the income statement.
For properties reclassi ed during the year from property, plant and equipment to investment properties, any revaluation gain arising is initially recognised in the income statement to the extent that impairment losses were previously recognised.
Any residual excess is taken to the revaluation reserve.
Revaluation fide cits are recognised in the revaluation reserve to the extent of previously recognised gains and any residual fide cit is accounted for in the income statement.
Page 159 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 1 Accounting policies continued j Investment properties continued Investment properties that are reclassi ed to owner-occupied property are revalued at the date of transfer, with any difference being taken to the income statement.
k Finance costs Finance costs relate to the Groups borrowed funds that are directly controlled by, or managed on behalf of, Old Mutual plc.
These include inter est payable, and gains and losses on revaluation of these funds and on those derivative instruments which are used to hedge these funds.
l Non-current assets held-for-sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets and disposal groups classi ed as held-for-sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and their fair value less costs to sell.
Where the proceeds of disposal are expected to exceed the book value of the related net assets no impairment loss is recognised on the reclassi cations of assets as held-for-sale.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classi ed as held-for-sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sales transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as having been met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year of the date of classi cation.
A discontinued operation is fide ned as a component of an entity that either has been disposed of, or is classi ed as held-for-sale and: represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
When a non-current asset or disposal group ceases to be classi ed as held-for-sale, the individual assets and liabilities cease to be shown separately in the balance sheet at the end of the year in which the classi cation changes.
If the line of business was previously presented as a discontinued operation and subsequently ceases to be classi ed as held-for-sale the income statement and cash ows of the comparative period are restated to show that line of business as a continuing operation.
m Pension plans and retirement bene ts fide ned bene t and fide ned contribution schemes have been established for eligible employees of the Group with the assets held in separate trustee administered funds.
The projected unit credit method is used to determine the fide ned bene t obligations based on actuarial assessments, which incorporate not only the pension obligations known on the balance sheet date but also information relevant to their expected future development.
The discount rates used are determined based on the yields for investment grade corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
Actuarial gains or losses arising subsequent to 1 January 2004 are accounted for using the corridor method.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the income statement over a period of time to the extent that the net cumulative unrecognised gains and losses at the end of the previous financial year exceed 10 percent of the greater of the fair value of the plan assets or 10 percent of the present value of the gross fide ned bene t obligations before deducting plan assets in the scheme at that date.
Such actuarial gains and losses are recognised over the expected average remaining working lives of the employees participating in the scheme.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses at 1 January 2004 were recognised in equity at that date.
Where the corridor calculation results in a bene t to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the net total of any unrecognised actuarial losses and past service costs and the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
When the bene ts of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased bene t relating to past service by employees is recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the average period until the bene ts become vested.
To the extent that the bene ts vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Contributions in respect of fide ned contribution schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Where applicable, Group companies make provision for post retirement medical and housing bene ts for eligible employees.
Non-pension post retirement bene ts are accounted for according to their nature, either as fide ned contribution or fide ned bene t plans.
The expected costs of post retirement bene ts that are fide ned bene t plans in nature are accounted for in the same manner as for fide ned bene t pension plans.
Page 160 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 1 Accounting policies continued n Share-based payments i Equity-settled share-based payment transactions with employees The services received in an equity-settled transaction with employees are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments granted.
The fair value of those equity instruments is measured at grant date.
If the equity instruments granted vest immediately and the employee is not required to complete a speci ed period of service before becoming unconditionally entitled to those instruments, the services received are recognised in full on grant date in the income statement for the period, with a corresponding increase in equity.
Where the equity instruments do not vest until the employee has completed a speci ed period of service, it is assumed that the services rendered by the employee, as consideration for those equity instruments, will be received in the future, during the vesting period.
These services are accounted for in the income statement as they are rendered during the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in equity.
In the Parent Company, the fair value of equity instruments granted by the company to the employees of subsidiary undertakings is recorded as an additional investment in the relevant subsidiary with credit recorded in equity.
ii Cash-settled share-based payment transactions with employees The services received in cash-settled transactions with employees and the liability to pay for those services, are recognised at fair value as the employee renders services.
Until the liability is settled, the fair value of the liability is re-measured at each reporting date and at the date of settlement, with any changes in fair value recognised in the income statement for the period.
iii Measurement of fair value of equity instruments granted The equity instruments granted by the Group are measured at fair value at the measurement date using standard option pricing valuation models.
The valuation technique is consistent with generally acceptable valuation methodologies for pricing financial instruments, and incorporates all factors and assumptions that knowledgeable, willing market participants would consider in setting the price of the equity instruments.
As permitted under IFRS 1, the provisions of this accounting policy have not been applied to equity-settled grants made on or before 7 November 2002, or awards granted after that date but which had vested prior to 1 January 2005. o Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash ow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and highly liquid short-term funds, mandatory reserve deposits held with central banks, cash held in investment portfolios awaiting reinvestment and cash and cash equivalents subject to the consolidation of funds.
p Other provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, for which it is probable that an out ow of economic bene ts will occur, and where a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the effect of discounting is material, provisions are discounted and the discount rate used is a pre-tax rate that re ects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks speci c to the liability.
Speci c policies: A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected bene ts to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting the obligations under the contract: A provision for restructuring is recognised only if the Group has approved a detailed formal plan and raised a valid expectation among those parties directly affected, that the plan will be carried out either by having begun implementation or by publicly announcing the plans main features: and No provision is made for future operating costs or losses.
q Critical accounting estimates and judgments Critical accounting estimates are those which involve the most complex or subjective judgments or assessments.
The areas of the Groups business that typically require such estimates are life insurance contract provisions, determination of the fair value for financial assets and liabilities, impairment charges, present values of acquired in-force for insurance and investment contract business, other intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination, deferred acquisition costs, deferred taxes and the non consolidation of the Groups wholly owned mutual life insurance undertaking.
Insurance contract accounting is discussed in more detail in note 1 d, and further detail of the key assumptions made in determining insurance contract provisions is included in note 23.
Accounting for deferred acquisition cost assets is also discussed in note 1 d. Page 161 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 1 Accounting policies continued q Critical accounting estimates and judgments continued The fair values of financial assets and liabilities are classi ed and accounted for in accordance with the policies set out in note 1 e. They are valued on the basis of listed market prices in so far as this is possible.
In the current market environment, such price information is typically not available for all instruments and the Group therefore uses internal models and valuation techniques to measure such instruments.
These techniques use market observable inputs where available, derived from similar assets and liabilities in similar and active markets, from recent transaction prices for comparable items or from other observable market data.
For positions where observable reference data are not available for some or all parameters the Group estimates the non-market observable inputs used in its valuation models.
Fair values of certain financial instruments including over-the-counter OTC derivative instruments, are determined using pricing models that consider, among other factors, contractual and market prices, correlations, yield curves, credit spreads, and volatility factors.
Accounting for present values of acquired in-force insurance and investment contract business, together with other intangibles acquired as part of a business combination are discussed in note 1 g. Assets are subject to regular impairment reviews as required.
Impairments are measured at the difference between the cost or amortised cost of a particular asset and the current fair value or recoverable amount.
Impairments are recorded in the income statement in the period in which they occur.
The Groups policy in relation to impairment testing in respect of Goodwill is detailed in note 1 g. The policy in respect of investment securities and purchased loans and receivables is described in note 1 e. The accounting policy for deferred tax is detailed in note 1 f. The Group does not consolidate its wholly owned mutual life insurance undertaking, Skandia Liv.
For more information refer to the Subsidiary Undertakings and Special Purpose Entities Accounting Policy, note 1 c i. r Segment reporting The Groups results are analysed across nine reportable segments.
For purposes of presentation these are grouped in geographical areas.
This is consistent with the way that management and the Board of Directors considers information when making operating decisions and is the basis on which resources are allocated and performance assessed by management and the Board of Directors.
The reported segments are Skandia UK, Nordic and ELAM, Old Mutual South Africa, Nedbank, Mutual & Federal, Rest of Africa, US Life and US Asset Management.
Information about other business activities and operating segments is disclosed in the other operating segments category.
Other operating segments comprise the Asia Paci c asset management business and Group head of ce.
There are four principal business activities from which the Group generates revenues.
These are long-term business premium income, asset management business fee and commission income, banking banking interest receivable and general insurance premium income.
The revenues generated in each reported segment can be seen in the analysis of pro ts and losses in note 3.
The information re ected in note 3 re ects the measures of pro t and loss, assets and liabilities for each segment as regularly provided to management and the Board of Directors.
There are no differences between the measurement of the assets and liabilities re ected in the primary statements and that reported for the segments.
A reconciliation between the reported segment revenues and expenses and the Groups revenues and expenses is shown in note 3.
Assets, liabilities, revenues or expenses that are not directly attributable to a particular segment are allocated between segments where there is a reasonable basis for doing so.
The Group accounts for inter-segment revenues and transfers as if the transactions were with third parties at current market prices.
Given the nature of the operations, there are no major customers within any of the segments.
Reallocations of certain comparative segment information have been made following changes in the Groups management reporting structure, effective 1 January 2008.
There was no impact on net pro t or net assets.
s Treasury shares Upon consolidation, the balance sheet and income statement are adjusted for own shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts ESOPs, policyholder funds of African life companies and those held in Black Economic Empowerment Trusts consolidated within the Groups financial statements.
Own shares are deducted from equity to eliminate the inter-company portion.
On purchase, the cost of the shares acquired is deducted from equity.
Subsequently, any gain or loss on the sale or cancellation of an entitys own equity instruments is recognised in equity.
Any net income in relation to own shares, both dividends received and unrealised losses on own shares are eliminated before stating the pro t for the year.
Page 162 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 1 Accounting policies continued s Treasury shares continued Dividends paid in respect of these shares are also excluded when determining the retained pro t for the year.
In calculating the basic earnings per share, the exclusion of income in respect of own shares from the income statement requires the exclusion of treasury shares from the weighted average number of shares.
When calculating the diluted earnings per share, the number of shares included in the weighted average re ects the potential issue in respect of the treasury shares.
t Share capital Ordinary and preference share capital including perpetual preferred callable securities are classi ed as equity if they are non-redeemable by the shareholder and any dividends are discretionary and coupon payments are recognised as distributions within equity.
Preference share capital is classi ed as a liability if it is redeemable on a speci c date or at the option of the shareholders or if dividend payments are not discretionary.
Coupon payments thereon are recognised in the income statement as interest expense.
u Dividends Dividends payable to holders of equity instruments are recognised in the period in which they are authorised or approved.
Interim dividends payable to holders of the Groups ordinary share capital are authorised by the directors of the Parent Company, the final dividend typically requires shareholder approval.
v Balance sheet liquidity analysis The Groups balance sheet is presented in order of liquidity as is permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
In order to satisfy the requirements of IAS 1, the following additional balance sheet analyses are given to describe how balance sheet lines are categorised between current and non-current balances, applying the principles laid out in IAS 1.
The following balance sheet captions are generally classi ed as current cash and cash equivalents, non-current assets held-for-sale, client indebtedness for acceptances, current tax receivable, current tax payable, liabilities under acceptances and non-current liabilities held-for-sale.
The following balances are generally classi ed as non-current goodwill and other intangible assets, mandatory reserve deposits with Central Banks, property, plant and equipment, investment property, deferred tax assets, investments in associated undertakings and jointly controlled operations, deferred acquisition costs, deposits held with reinsurers, third party interests in the consolidation of funds, provisions, deferred revenue and deferred tax liabilities.
The following balances include both current and non-current portions reinsurers shares of long-term and general insurance business policyholder liabilities, loans and advances, investments and securities, other assets, derivative financial assets and liabilities, long-term business and general insurance policyholder liabilities, borrowed funds, amounts owed to bank depositors and other liabilities.
The split between the current and non-current portions for these assets and liabilities is given either by way of a footnote to the relevant note to the accounts or by way of a maturity analysis in respect of major financial liability captions.
w Standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations adopted in the 2008 annual financial statements The following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations which are relevant to the Group, have been adopted in these financial statements: The amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, issued in October 2008, in respect of the reclassi cation of financial instruments have been adopted in these financial statements.
The amendments extend the ability of preparers to make reclassi cations of financial instruments between IAS 39 categories in restricted circumstances.
Under the revised reclassi cation rules an entity has the ability to reclassify financial instruments from the held-for-trading and available for sale financial instrument categories in certain speci ed rare circumstances.
The Groups accounting policies have been amended as shown in note 1 e xiii.
The amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, issued in October 2008, in conjunction with the changes to IAS 39, in respect of the reclassi cation of financial instruments, have also been adopted in these financial statements.
The amendments require additional disclosures where reclassi cations have been made in respect of the extended reclassi cations provisions in IAS 39.
See note 31 for the additional disclosures.
IFRS 2 Share-based payments effective 1 January 2009.
Amendment relating to vesting conditions and cancellations.
The amendments which have been early adopted in these financial statements, clarify that vesting conditions are performance conditions and service conditions only.
Other features of a share-based transaction are not vesting conditions.
There were no material impacts arising from the implementation of this amendment.
IFRIC 14 The Limit on a fide ned Bene t Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction effective 1 January 2008 clari es when refunds or reductions in future contributions in relation to fide ned bene t assets should be regarded as available and provides guidance on the impact of minimum funding requirements MFR on such assets.
This amendment was endorsed by EV on 16 December 2008.
There was no material impact on the Groups financial statements from the implementation of this amendment.
Page 163 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 1 Accounting policies continued x Standards and interpretations that have previously been early adopted in the Groups annual financial statements The following standards and interpretations have been previously early adopted in the Groups financial statements.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments effective 1 January 2009 was adopted in the 2007 financial statements.
IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting.
The key change from IAS 14 is to require segment information to be presented based on internal reports that are regularly reviewed by the entitys chief operating decision maker.
The amount of each operating segment item reported is the measure reported to the chief operating decision maker for the purposes of allocating resources to the segment and assessing its performance.
IFRIC 11, IFRS 2: Group and Treasury Share Transactions effective 1 March 2007 was adopted in the 2007 financial statements.
IFRIC 11 clari es the treatment required in group and subsidiary financial statements of certain share-based transactions entered into by holding companies or subsidiaries, principally in respect of accounting for entitlements to equity instruments of the holding company.
The principles set out in the interpretation had no impact on the Groups accounting policies on share-based payments and limited impact in the Parent Companys financial statements.
y Future standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations not early adopted in the 2008 annual financial statements At the date of authorisation of these financial statements the following standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations, which are relevant to the Group, have been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, although the EU has not yet endorsed all of them.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements a Revised Presentation effective 1 January 2009.
The changes include a comprehensive revision of primary statements, and include a requirement to introduce a statement of comprehensive income.
There will be some presentational changes as a result of the introduction of this standard but no changes in measurement or recognition.
There have also been additional amendments to this standard during 2008 as a consequence of the amendments made to IAS 32 relating to the disclosure of puttable instruments and obligations arising on liquidation please see below for the amendments made to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations arising on liquidation effective 1 January 2009.
Amendments have been made relating to the balance sheet classi cation of puttable instruments and obligations arising only on liquidation.
As a result of the amendments some financial instruments that currently meet the fide nition of a financial liability will be classi ed as equity because they represent the residual interest in the net assets of an entity.
The amendments are not expected to have an impact on the Groups financial statements.
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement effective 1 July 2009.
Amendments have been made to clarify two hedge accounting issues: i in ation in a financial hedged item and ii a one sided risk in a hedged item.
The amendments will not have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations effective 1 July 2009, not yet endorsed by EU.
The amendments to IFRS 3 introduce a comprehensive revision to the standard, in particular on the application of the acquisition method.
The provisions of the standard largely apply to future acquisitions, and in the case of Old Mutual, the standard will be applicable for acquisitions occurring on or after 1 January 2010, the required date of implementation of the standard by the Group.
No retrospective application is necessary.
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements effective 1 July 2009, not yet endorsed by EU.
The amendments to IAS 27 coincide with those made to IFRS 3, and the majority of the signi cant provisions of the revised standard are only applicable to the Group in 2010.
IAS 28 Investments in Associates and IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures effective 1 July 2009, not yet endorsed by EU.
The amendments coincide with the changes to IFRS 3 and IAS 27.
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes effective 1 July 2008.
These amendments address accounting by entities that grant loyalty award credits to customers who buy other goods or services.
Speci cally, they explain how entities should account for their obligations to provide free or discounted goods or services awards to customers who redeem award credits.
The amendments are anticipated to have a limited impact in the Groups South African banking business.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation effective 1 October 2008, not yet endorsed by EU.
These amendments clarify three particular issues relating to the accounting for hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
The interpretation is not anticipated to have any material impact on the Groups financial statements.
Page 164 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 2 Foreign currencies The principal exchange rates used to translate the operating results, assets and liabilities of key foreign business segments to Sterling are: Income Balance statement sheet average rate closing rate 31 December 2008 Rand 15.2948 13.7194 US Dollars 1.8524 1.4575 Swedish Kronor 12.2209 11.4494 Euro 1.2594 1.0446 31 December 2007 Rand 14.1109 13.6043 US Dollars 2.0014 1.9827 Swedish Kronor 13.5253 12.8320 Euro 1.4602 1.3596 3 Segment information i Basis of segmentation The Groups results are analysed across nine reportable segments.
The Group generates revenue from four principal business activities: long-term business, asset management, banking and general insurance.
The types of products and services from which each reportable segment derives its revenues are as follows: Europe Skandia UK long-term business and asset management Europe Nordic long-term business, asset management and banking Europe ELAM long-term business and asset management South Africa OMSA long-term business and asset management South Africa Nedbank banking and asset management South Africa Mutual & Federal general insurance South Africa Rest of Africa long-term business and asset management includes Namibia United States US Life long-term business United States USAM asset management Information about other business activities and operating segments is disclosed in the other operating segments category.
Adjusted operating pro t is one of the key measures reported to the Groups management and Board of Directors for their consideration in the allocation of resources to and the review of performance of the segments.
The Group utilises additional measures to assess the performance of each of the segments, in particular the level of funds under management.
Additional performance measures considered by management and the Board of Directors in assessing the performance of the segments can be found in the Old Mutual Market Consistent Embedded Value information presented on pages 279 to 327.
Comparative segment information has been revised in accordance with the improvements in presentation made in the current financial year.
In the analysis that follows, consolidation adjustments include the elimination of inter-segment revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities together with the impacts of the consolidation of the Groups interest in unit trusts, mutual funds and similar entities.
Page 165 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 3 Segment information continued ii Adjusted operating pro t statement segment information year ended 31 December 2008 Europe South Africa UK Nordic ELAM OMSA Nedbank m m m m m Revenue Gross earned premiums 131 92 92 1,587 Outward reinsurance 78 4 8 45 Net earned premiums 53 88 84 1,542 Investment return non-banking 6,165 2,317 1,436 305 Banking interest and similar income 266 3,793 Banking trading, investment and similar income 24 138 Fee and commission income, and income from service activities 667 184 316 185 533 Other income 14 20 2 97 85 Inter-segment revenues 104 104 29 227 19 Total revenues 5,327 1,631 1,005 1,746 4,568 Expenses Claims and bene ts including change in insurance contract provisions 38 68 103 648 Reinsurance recoveries 34 4 2 41 Net claims and bene ts incurred 4 64 101 607 Change in investment contract liabilities 5,991 2,390 1,466 184 Losses on loans and advances 4 315 Finance costs Banking interest payable and similar expenses 183 2,684 Fee and commission expenses, and other acquisition costs 330 49 151 150 Other operating and administrative expenses 333 193 166 487 928 Goodwill impairment Change in third party interest in consolidated funds Amortisation of PVIF and other acquired intangibles Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 283 52 1 7 Inter-segment expenses 113 126 31 177 71 Total expenses 5,494 1,719 1,016 1,230 3,998 Share of associated undertakings pro t loss after tax 6 5 Pro t on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments Adjusted operating pro t loss before tax and minority interests 167 88 11 522 575 Tax expense 56 11 14 155 123 Minority interests 5 227 Adjusted operating pro t loss after tax and minority interests 111 77 3 362 225 Adjusting items net of tax and minority interests 55 122 16 104 29 Pro t loss after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent 166 45 19 466 254 Page 166 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 3 Segment information continued ii Adjusted operating pro t statement segment information year ended 31 December 2008 continued United States Other Total Adjusting Rest of operating Consolidation reportable items Income M & F Africa US Life USAM segments adjustments segments note 4 statement m m m m m m m m m 570 85 2,599 5,156 5,156 91 2 107 335 335 479 83 2,492 4,821 4,821 56 14 332 3 13 713 11,242 336 11,578 4,059 4,059 162 162 16 4 473 33 1 2,410 97 2,313 22 17 13 270 270 26 3 8 66 586 577 76 2,182 495 86 1,287 480 433 47 401 52 2,300 3,610 3,610 72 1 108 262 262 329 51 2,192 3,348 3,348 16 4 10,051 10,051 319 319 140 140 532 392 2,867 14 2,853 101 6 264 10 10 44 1,115 178 937 59 10 84 388 75 34 2,757 77 2,834 74 74 779 779 779 361 361 1 236 236 12 6 13 37 586 501 58 2,549 398 262 1,287 520 24 496 12 1 1 53 53 76 18 367 97 188 999 404 595 17 2 76 2 214 86 174 88 19 21 272 30 242 40 16 291 99 5 641 200 441 49 13 569 1 380 200 9 3 860 100 385 441 Page 167 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 3 Segment information continued ii Adjusted operating pro t statement segment information year ended 31 December 2007 Europe South Africa UK Nordic ELAM OMSA Nedbank m m m m m Revenue Gross earned premiums 129 73 28 1,474 Outward reinsurance 66 3 3 39 Net earned premiums 63 70 25 1,435 Investment return non-banking 1,565 349 50 3,006 Banking interest and similar income 211 2,979 Banking trading, investment and similar income 3 167 Fee and commission income, and income from service activities 706 184 295 209 529 Other income 15 17 1 100 65 Inter-segment revenues 82 92 44 190 39 Total revenues 2,431 926 415 4,940 3,779 Expenses Claims and bene ts including change in insurance contract provisions 79 46 26 2,842 Reinsurance recoveries 47 1 2 38 Net claims and bene ts incurred 32 45 24 2,804 Change in investment contract liabilities 1,525 293 33 768 Losses on loans and advances 3 154 Finance costs Banking interest payable and similar expenses 125 1,928 Fee and commission expenses, and other acquisition costs 327 35 131 148 Other operating and administrative expenses 325 223 149 533 977 Goodwill impairment Change in third party interest in consolidated funds Amortisation of PVIF and other acquired intangibles Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 42 39 62 Inter-segment expenses 91 98 48 139 75 Total expenses 2,258 861 385 4,454 3,134 Share of associated undertakings pro t loss after tax 11 8 Pro t on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments Adjusted operating pro t loss before tax and minority interests 173 65 30 497 653 Tax expense 43 10 15 128 173 Minority interests 1 6 252 Adjusted operating pro t loss after tax and minority interests 130 55 14 363 228 Adjusting items net of tax and minority interests 13 69 14 121 23 Pro t loss after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent 117 14 484 251 Page 168 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 3 Segment information continued ii Adjusted operating pro t statement segment information year ended 31 December 2007 continued United States Other Total Adjusting Income Rest of operating Consolidation reportable items statement M & F Africa US Life USAM segments adjustments segments note 4 Restated m m m m m m m m m 625 89 3,148 5,566 5,566 92 2 88 293 293 533 87 3,060 5,273 5,273 60 77 774 13 8 211 6,113 205 6,318 3,190 3,190 170 170 18 5 570 42 2,558 83 2,475 9 12 3 23 245 245 33 3 12 17 512 644 172 3,843 607 70 278 17,549 122 17,671 390 139 3,671 7,193 7,193 52 1 95 236 236 338 138 3,576 6,957 6,957 1 2,618 2,618 157 157 119 119 69 50 2,053 2,053 128 5 102 10 11 70 967 189 778 53 6 54 435 74 8 2,837 24 2,813 3 3 156 156 156 360 360 1 60 60 36 8 13 4 512 555 157 3,745 445 208 278 15,924 21 15,945 20 1 1 25 25 89 15 98 162 158 1,624 126 1,750 28 1 33 27 40 418 86 504 20 13 292 18 274 41 14 65 135 131 914 58 972 2 1 49 8 48 58 43 15 16 143 83 972 Page 169 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 3 Segment information continued iii Gross earned premiums Europe South Africa UK Nordic ELAM OMSA Nedbank Year ended 31 December 2008 m m m m m Long-term business insurance contracts 131 92 92 1,111 Long-term business investment contracts with discretionary participation features 476 General insurance Gross earned premiums 131 92 92 1,587 Long-term business other investment contracts recognised as deposits 4,892 976 1,052 1,358 Europe South Africa UK Nordic ELAM OMSA Nedbank Year ended 31 December 2007 m m m m m Long-term business insurance contracts 129 73 28 1,011 Long-term business investment contracts with discretionary participation features 463 General insurance Gross earned premiums 129 73 28 1,474 Long-term business other investment contracts recognised as deposits 6,335 694 1,421 1,293 iv Impairments on financial assets Europe South Africa UK Nordic ELAM OMSA Nedbank Year ended 31 December 2008 m m m m m Impairment losses 5 315 Europe South Africa UK Nordic ELAM OMSA Nedbank Year ended 31 December 2007 m m m m m Impairment losses 2 5 154 v Funds under management Europe South Africa UK Nordic ELAM OMSA Nedbank As at 31 December 2008 m m m m m Long-term business policyholder funds 26,889 6,605 5,297 20,048 425 Unit trusts and mutual funds 7,108 1,000 4,291 3,613 2,617 Third party client funds 8,613 3,375 Total client funds under management 33,997 7,605 9,588 32,274 6,417 Shareholder funds 885 418 311 1,596 Total funds under management 34,882 8,023 9,899 33,870 6,417 Europe South Africa UK Nordic ELAM OMSA Nedbank As at 31 December 2007 m m m m m Long-term business policyholder funds 31,735 7,595 5,344 21,784 430 Unit trusts and mutual funds 9,211 1,182 4,023 3,918 2,775 Third party client funds 6,945 3,335 Total client funds under management 40,946 8,777 9,367 32,647 6,540 Shareholder funds 915 315 224 1,846 Total funds under management 41,861 9,092 9,591 34,493 6,540 Page 170 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 3 Segment information continued United States Other M & F Rest of Africa US Life USAM Total m m m m m m 37 2,599 4,062 48 524 570 570 570 85 2,599 5,156 33 230 8,541 United States Other M & F Rest of Africa US Life USAM Total m m m m m m 37 3,148 4,426 52 515 625 625 625 89 3,148 5,566 22 177 9,942 United States Other M & F Rest of Africa US Life USAM Total m m m m m m 414 734 United States Other M & F Rest of Africa US Life USAM Total m m m m m m 32 193 United States Other M & F Rest of Africa US Life USAM Total m m m m m m 253 2,642 13,623 193 75,975 3,127 1,859 23,615 228 147,956 1,484 161,656 481 2,642 164,706 3,536 261,246 145 36 177 3,568 145 517 2,642 164,883 3,536 264,814 United States Other M & F Rest of Africa US Life USAM Total m m m m m m 255 2,368 12,454 122 82,087 5,260 2,535 28,904 237 149,850 3,833 164,200 492 2,368 167,564 6,490 275,191 136 60 191 3,687 136 552 2,368 167,755 6,490 278,878 Page 171 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 3 Segment information continued vi Balance sheet segment information year ended 31 December 2008 Europe South Africa UK Nordic ELAM OMSA Nedbank At 31 December 2008 m m m m m Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 1,609 1,183 1,138 28 425 Goodwill 644 222 574 24 308 Present value of acquired in-force business 713 742 375 Software development 22 1 6 4 117 Other intangibles 230 218 183 Mandatory reserve deposits with Central Banks 734 Property, plant and equipment 23 4 17 254 316 Investment property 2 1 1,273 15 Deferred tax assets 166 78 51 65 25 Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures 26 75 Deferred acquisition costs 639 34 315 102 2 Insurance contracts 24 2 25 Investment contracts 552 32 282 92 Asset management 63 8 10 2 Reinsurers share of long-term business policyholder liabilities 607 13 5 6 9 Insurance contracts 42 10 3 6 9 Unit-Linked investment contracts and similar contracts 551 Outstanding claims 14 3 2 Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities Deposits held with reinsurers 121 Loans and advances 116 3,846 25 49 31,634 Policyholder loans 116 24 49 Other loans and advances 3,846 1 31,634 Investments and securities 27,167 7,595 5,389 21,700 5,043 Government and  securities 163 214 610 3,631 2,255 Listed other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 2 813 41 1,781 2,172 Unlisted other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 67 2,106 Listed equity securities 1 1 6,678 38 Unlisted equity securities 23 12 9 873 152 Listed pooled investments 638 155 11 283 426 Unlisted pooled investments 26,340 6,401 4,650 4,233 Short-term funds and securities treated as investments 2,114 Other securities 1 Current tax receivable 80 8 3 25 Client indebtedness for acceptances 220 Other assets 178 138 125 433 486 Derivative financial instruments assets 1,614 1,627 Cash and cash equivalents 202 372 183 97 631 Non-current assets held-for-sale 7 Inter-segment assets 163 264 89 1,308 19 Total assets 30,952 13,648 7,346 26,965 41,286 Page 172 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 3 Segment information continued vi Balance sheet segment information year ended 31 December 2008 continued United States Other Total operating Consolidation reportable M & F Rest of Africa US Life USAM segments adjustments segments m m m m m m m 29 4 137 1,305 24 5,882 10 4 1,271 24 3,081 120 1,950 19 17 1 187 33 664 734 24 13 1 26 4 682 8 179 1,478 8 1,036 158 3 1,590 10 111 15 3 2,041 40 8 3,199 15 2,041 2,107 3 961 40 8 131 508 1,148 480 550 551 28 47 115 115 3 40 164 2 10 62 1 35,745 10 61 260 2 1 1 35,485 322 626 13,960 177 88 1,455 83,522 64 97 1,942 8,976 1 9 7,555 1,695 14,069 2 7 2,690 175 5,047 67 253 7,938 14,976 5 11 118 1,203 36 128 2,093 135 1,310 5,215 18 42 11,853 29,831 211 150 1,389 125 3,989 4 88 123 216 2 118 220 68 10 1,041 139 100 419 3,137 57 226 1,109 4,633 56 4 11 220 89 997 2,862 7 46 14 423 99 1,632 4,057 688 692 19,317 2,164 2,187 102 145,347 Page 173 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 3 Segment information continued vi Balance sheet segment information year ended 31 December 2008 continued Europe South Africa UK Nordic ELAM OMSA Nedbank At 31 December 2008 m m m m m Liabilities Long-term business policyholder liabilities 27,327 6,884 5,348 22,569 426 Insurance contracts 157 71 700 10,310 Unit-linked investment contracts and similar contracts 27,154 6,704 4,641 6,525 Other investment contracts 105 426 Discretionary participating investment contracts 5,428 Outstanding claims 16 109 7 201 General insurance liabilities Third party interests in consolidated funds Borrowed funds 1 237 960 Senior debt securities 1 Mortgage backed securities 104 Subordinated debt securities 237 856 Provisions 22 203 15 126 1 Deferred revenue 401 3 155 22 Long-term business 320 3 149 16 Asset management 81 6 6 General insurance Deferred tax liabilities 221 93 212 172 162 Current tax payable 26 22 3 96 18 Other liabilities 508 198 173 826 747 Liabilities under acceptances 220 Amounts owed to bank depositees 4,622 33,549 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1 1,436 1,731 Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 6 Inter-segment liabilities 185 174 406 26 427 Total liabilities 28,692 12,199 6,312 25,516 38,241 Net assets 2,260 1,449 1,034 1,449 3,045 Equity Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 2,260 1,449 1,034 1,441 1,717 Minority interests 8 1,328 Minority interests ordinary shares 8 1,081 Minority interests preference shares 247 Total equity 2,260 1,449 1,034 1,449 3,045 The net assets of South African businesses are stated after eliminating investments in Group equity and debt instruments of 236 million 2007: 493 million held in policyholder funds.
These include investments in the Companys ordinary shares and subordinated liabilities and preferred securities issued by the Groups banking subsidiary Nedbank Limited.
All South Africa debt relates to long-term business.
All other debt relates to other shareholders net assets.
Page 174 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 3 Segment information continued vi Balance sheet segment information year ended 31 December 2008 continued United States Other Total operating Consolidation reportable M & F Rest of Africa US Life USAM segments adjustments segments m m m m m m m 593 18,122 81,269 238 16,630 28,106 137 45,161 1,434 1,965 218 5,646 58 391 344 344 2,591 2,591 1,097 2,295 556 557 104 541 1,634 21 2 3 84 477 8 1 8 598 1 489 8 101 8 8 2 578 12 1,452 2 1 4 8 39 219 71 5 276 299 165 465 3,733 220 38,171 124 1,103 4,395 6 1 5 4 1,452 1,379 4,057 447 607 18,984 1,762 2,908 102 135,770 241 85 333 402 721 9,577 193 85 333 365 1,140 7,737 48 37 419 1,840 48 37 27 1,147 446 693 241 85 333 402 721 9,577 Page 175 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 3 Segment information continued vi Balance sheet segment information year ended 31 December 2007 Europe South Africa UK Nordic ELAM OMSA Nedbank At 31 December 2007 m m m m m Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 1,716 1,180 939 26 420 Goodwill 639 196 436 14 320 Present value of acquired in-force business 794 760 338 Software development 24 1 4 12 100 Other intangibles 259 223 161 Mandatory reserve deposits with Central Banks 615 Property, plant and equipment 19 5 14 241 291 Investment property 2 1 1,096 13 Deferred tax assets 40 74 13 106 12 Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures 25 62 Deferred acquisition costs 524 15 182 93 1 Insurance contracts 20 1 3 Investment contracts 439 14 175 86 Asset management 65 4 7 1 Reinsurers share of long-term business policyholder liabilities 702 8 4 4 13 Insurance contracts 56 5 2 4 13 Unit-Linked investment contracts and similar contracts 636 Outstanding claims 10 3 2 Deposits held with reinsurers 183 Loans and advances 64 3,117 19 83 27,360 Policyholder loans 63 15 83 Other loans and advances 1 3,117 4 27,360 Investments and securities 31,964 7,867 5,426 24,394 4,686 Government and  securities 163 165 44 3,074 1,414 Listed other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 105 80 1,969 2,660 Unlisted other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 16 3 2,083 Listed equity securities 1 1 7 9,402 44 Unlisted equity securities 1 16 3 680 138 Listed pooled investments 2,520 197 11 214 430 Unlisted pooled investments 29,279 7,367 5,278 4,703 Short-term funds and securities treated as investments 2,269 Other securities Current tax receivable 45 5 2 4 4 Client indebtedness for acceptances 165 Other assets 161 63 166 513 611 Derivative financial instruments assets 15 43 666 Cash and cash equivalents 599 202 125 195 763 Non-current assets held-for-sale 1,024 2 2 Inter-segment assets 198 549 137 844 102 Total assets 36,034 14,307 7,028 27,669 35,786 Page 176 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 3 Segment information continued vi Balance sheet segment information year ended 31 December 2007 continued United States Other Total operating Consolidation reportable M & F Rest of Africa US Life USAM segments adjustments segments m m m m m m m 4 184 959 31 5,459 4 57 932 31 2,629 116 2,008 11 10 162 17 660 615 13 1 17 7 608 8 359 1,479 327 106 5 683 6 81 3 1,398 24 13 2,253 1,398 1,422 3 717 24 13 114 1 662 1,394 1 646 727 636 16 31 30 213 44 30,687 43 204 1 30,483 675 11,560 192 155 2,708 89,627 80 240 2,054 7,234 15 6,881 911 12,621 2,179 4,281 320 11,586 21,361 10 115 963 104 1,656 169 897 6,198 11 23 13,261 33,400 106 478 489 3,342 40 155 32 227 23 83 165 13 876 182 85 104 2,774 20 72 711 1,527 5 3 205 76 1,296 3,469 595 1,623 52 11 46 2,112 4,051 647 733 15,151 1,685 2,573 1,127 142,740 Page 177 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 3 Segment information continued vi Balance sheet segment information year ended 31 December 2007 continued Europe South Africa UK Nordic ELAM OMSA Nedbank At 31 December 2007 m m m m m Liabilities Long-term business policyholder liabilities 32,311 7,909 5,371 24,632 430 Insurance contracts 188 72 103 11,105 Unit-linked investment contracts and similar contracts 32,111 7,738 5,263 6,936 Other investment contracts 85 430 Discretionary participating investment contracts 6,194 Outstanding claims 12 99 5 312 General insurance liabilities Third party interests in consolidated funds Borrowed funds 22 20 17 238 845 Senior debt securities 22 20 17 Mortgage backed securities 103 Subordinated debt securities 238 742 Provisions 21 180 5 134 18 Deferred revenue 345 1 76 23 3 Long-term business 261 1 72 16 Asset management 84 4 7 3 Deferred tax liabilities 332 111 155 281 128 Current tax payable 34 15 8 149 29 Other liabilities 618 219 152 772 2,406 Liabilities under acceptances 165 Amounts owed to bank depositors 3,936 27,881 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 21 3 115 840 Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 22 2 Inter-segment liabilities 198 579 212 75 379 Total liabilities 33,881 13,013 5,999 26,421 33,124 Net assets 2,153 1,294 1,029 1,248 2,662 Equity Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 2,153 1,294 1,024 1,238 1,520 Minority interests 5 10 1,142 Minority interests ordinary shares 5 10 885 Minority interests preference shares 257 Total equity 2,153 1,294 1,029 1,248 2,662 Page 178 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 3 Segment information continued vi Balance sheet segment information year ended 31 December 2007 continued United States Other Total operating Consolidation reportable M & F Rest of Africa US Life USAM segments adjustments segments m m m m m m m 602 12,996 84,251 269 11,900 23,637 123 52,171 1,059 1,574 210 6,404 37 465 3,547 3,547 1,211 2,353 402 461 103 809 1,789 3 2 136 499 14 462 350 14 112 401 5 1,413 1 13 5 76 320 33 555 364 137 924 6,180 165 31,817 30 707 1,716 396 420 4 2 1,638 964 4,051 400 641 13,965 1,999 2,573 1,127 133,143 247 92 1,186 314 9,597 200 92 1,186 346 400 7,961 47 32 400 1,636 47 32 46 933 446 703 247 92 1,186 314 9,597 Page 179 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 4 Operating pro t adjusting items i Summary of adjusting items In determining the adjusted operating pro t of the Group certain adjustments are made to pro t before tax to re ect the directors view of the underlying long-term performance of the Group.
The following table shows an analysis of those adjustments from adjusted operating pro t to pro t before and after tax.
South United Europe Africa States Other Total Year ended 31 December 2008 Notes m m m m m Income expense Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting 4 ii 341 96 1 438 Pro t loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 4 iii 72 20 1 53 Short-term uctuations in investment return 4 iv 145 239 476 570 Investment return adjustment for Group equity and debt instruments held in life funds 4 v 234 234 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities 4 vi 43 43 US Asset Management equity plans and minority holders 4 viii 7 7 Credit-related fair value gains on Group debt instruments 4 ix 14 489 503 Total adjusting items 124 11 564 531 168 Tax on adjusting items 5 iii 41 45 3 151 62 Minority interest in adjusting items 6 iii 37 7 30 Total adjusting items after tax and minority interests 83 71 568 380 200 South United Europe Africa States Other Total Year ended 31 December 2007 Notes m m m m m Income expense Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting 4 ii 218 3 24 245 Pro t on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 4 iii 16 1 8 25 Short-term uctuations in investment return 4 iv 55 191 55 191 Investment return adjustment for Group equity and debt instruments held in life funds 4 v 14 14 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities 4 vi 40 40 Closure of unclaimed shares trusts 4 vii 13 12 1 US Asset Management equity plans and minority holders 4 viii 11 11 Credit-related fair value gains on Group debt instruments 4 ix 29 29 Total adjusting items 147 216 60 57 66 Tax on adjusting items 5 iii 51 98 30 9 26 Minority interest in adjusting items 6 iii 29 11 18 Total adjusting items after tax and minority interests 96 147 41 48 58 Page 180 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 4 Operating pro t adjusting items continued ii Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting In applying acquisition accounting in accordance with IFRS deferred acquisition costs and deferred revenue are not recognised.
These are reversed in the acquisition balance sheet and replaced by goodwill, other intangible assets and the value of the acquired present value of in-force business acquired PVIF.
In determining its adjusted operating pro t the Group recognises deferred revenue and acquisition costs in relation to policies sold by acquired businesses pre-acquisition, and excludes the impairment of goodwill and the amortisation of acquired other intangibles and acquired PVIF.
Goodwill impairment and acquisition accounting adjustments to adjusted operating pro t are summarised below: South United Europe Africa States Other Total Year ended 31 December 2008 m m m m m Amortisation of acquired PVIF UK 86 86 Nordic 105 105 ELAM 60 60 US Life 35 35 Amortisation of acquired deferred costs and revenue UK 33 33 Nordic 22 22 ELAM 26 26 Amortisation of other acquired intangible assets UK 30 30 Nordic 24 24 ELAM 21 21 Change in acquisition balance sheet provisions UK 8 8 Nordic 76 76 Goodwill impairment Nordic 12 12 US Life 61 61 Other 1 1 341 96 1 438 South Africa United Europe Restated States Other Total Year ended 31 December 2007 m m m m m Amortisation of acquired PVIF UK 95 95 Nordic 92 92 ELAM 79 79 US Life 24 24 Amortisation of acquired deferred costs and revenue UK 35 35 Nordic 20 20 ELAM 51 51 Amortisation of other acquired intangible assets UK 30 30 Nordic 22 22 ELAM 18 18 Change in acquisition balance sheet provisions Nordic 12 12 Goodwill impairment M & F 3 3 218 3 24 245 Page 181 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 4 Operating pro t adjusting items continued iii Pro t on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments On 11 June 2008, ELAM completed the disposal of its controlling shareholding in Palladyne, an asset management business, resulting in a pro t on disposal of 17 million.
Part of the Nordic segments banking business, Skandias Nordic vehicle finance operation, SkandiaBanken Bil nans, was sold during the six months ended 30 June 2008, resulting in a pro t on disposal of 55 million.
During 2007, the Nordic segments banking subsidiary sold its Danish operation.
An accounting pro t on sale of 16 million was recognised.
The US Asset Management business disposed of its interests in certain af liate asset managers, resulting in a pro t on disposal of 8 million in 2007.
The Group has closed its project to develop a direct financial services capability in South Africa due to adverse market conditions.
Costs relating to the closure amounting to 25 million have been excluded from the adjusted operating pro t. OMSA realised a pro t of 4 million on the sale of its administration business and Nedbank recognised a 1 million pro t in the disposal of Bond Choice.
Pro ts on the disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments are analysed below: South United Europe Africa States Other Total Year ended 31 December 2008 m m m m m Nordic 55 55 ELAM 17 17 OMSA 11 11 Nedbank 1 1 M & F 10 10 USAM 1 1 72 20 1 53 South United Europe Africa States Other Total Year ended 31 December 2007 m m m m m Nordic 16 16 Nedbank 1 1 USAM 8 8 16 1 8 25 iv Long-term investment return Pro t before tax includes actual investment returns earned on the shareholder assets of the Groups long-term and general insurance businesses.
Adjusted operating pro t is stated after recalculating shareholder asset investment returns based on a long-term investment return rate.
The difference between the actual and the long-term investment returns are short-term uctuations in investment return.
Long-term rates of return are based on achieved real rates of return appropriate to the underlying asset base, adjusted for current in ation expectations and consensus economic investment forecasts, and are reviewed frequently, usually annually, for appropriateness.
These rates of return have been selected with a view to ensuring that returns credited to adjusted operating pro t are consistent with the actual returns expected to be earned over the long-term.
For South Africa long-term business, the return is applied to an average value of investible shareholders assets, adjusted for net fund ows.
For US and Europe long-term businesses, the return is applied to average investible assets.
For all businesses mis-matches attributed to the timing of the recognition of policyholder tax and related receipts from policyholders are eliminated with reference to the historic net gains losses in respect of this item.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December % % Long-term investment rates 2008 2007 Europe long-term business 4.8 4.9 South Africa long-term business 16.6 15.6 United States long-term business 5.9 5.7 Page 182 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 4 Operating pro t adjusting items continued iv Long-term investment return continued Analysis of short-term uctuations in investment return Rest of UK Nordic ELAM OMSA M & F Africa US Life Total At 31 December 2008 m m m m m m m m Long-term investment return 65 1 230 60 11 754 1,121 Less: Actual shareholder investment return 205 5 1 76 12 2 484 757 Short-term uctuations in investment return 140 4 1 154 72 13 270 364 Hedge losses on Bermuda guarantees treated as short-term uctuations 206 206 Total shortterm uctuations in investment return 140 4 1 154 72 13 476 570 Rest of UK Nordic ELAM OMSA M & F Africa US Life Total At 31 December 2007 m m m m m m m m Long-term investment return 6 1 212 65 9 582 875 Less: Actual shareholder investment return 60 2 406 61 10 527 1,066 Short-term uctuations in investment return 54 1 194 4 1 55 191 Hedge losses on Bermuda guarantees treated as short-term uctuations Total shortterm uctuations in investment return 54 1 194 4 1 55 191 The actual investment return attributable to shareholders for the US long-term business re ects total investment income, as a distinction is not drawn between shareholder and policyholder funds.
v Investment return adjustment for Group equity and debt instrument held in life funds Adjusted operating pro t includes investment returns on policyholder investments in Group equity and debt instruments by the Groups life funds.
These include investments in the Companys ordinary shares, and the subordinated liabilities and ordinary securities of the Groups South Africa banking subsidiary.
These investment returns are eliminated within the consolidated income statement in arriving at pro t before tax, but are included in adjusted operating pro t. In 2008 the investment return adjustment decreased adjusted operating pro t by 234 million 2007: decrease of 14 million.
vi Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities Dividends declared to the holders of the Groups perpetual preferred callable securities were 43 million in the year ended 31 December 2008 2007: 40 million.
These are recognised in finance costs on an accruals basis for the purpose of determining adjusted operating pro t. In the IFRS financial statements this cost is recognised in equity.
vii Closure of unclaimed shares trusts During 2006 Old Mutual plc announced that the Old Mutual South Africa Unclaimed Shares Trust UST, together with similar trusts set up in Namibia, Zimbabwe, Malawi and Bermuda, would be closed.
Proceeds of sale of the Old Mutual plc shares held by those trusts were remitted to Old Mutual plc in 2006 and 2007.
Old Mutual intends to use substantially all of the proceeds realised to discharge late claims in cash for a further period of three years to 31 August 2009, to fund good causes in the jurisdictions of the trust concerned or to enhance bene ts for certain speci c groups of policyholders of the Groups South African and Namibian life businesses.
Provisions are held in this regard.
During 2007 adjustments were made in respect of the realisation of certain foreign exchange losses 14 million and the remeasurement of certain provisions 13 million.
Consistent with the original accounting treatment in 2006, these amounts have been excluded from adjusted operating pro t. Page 183 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 4 Operating pro t adjusting items continued viii US Asset Management equity plans and minority interests During 2007, US Asset Management entered into a number of new long-term incentive arrangements with its asset management af liates.
In accordance with IFRS requirements the cost of these schemes is disclosed as being attributable to minority interests.
However, this is treated as a compensation expense in determining adjusted operating pro t. The amount recognised in relation to this in 2008 was 7 million 2007: 11 million.
The Group has issued put options to employees as part of some of its US af liate incentive schemes.
The impact of revaluing these instruments is recognised in accordance with IFRS, but excluded from adjusted operating pro t. As at 31 December 2008 these instruments were revalued, the impact of which was nil 2007: less than 1 million.
ix Credit-related fair value gains on Group debt instruments The widening of credit spread of the Groups debt instruments in the market price has resulted in gains of 489 million 2007: 29 million gain at Group head of ce and 14 million 2007: nil in Nedbank being recorded in the Groups income statement for those instruments that are recorded at fair value.
In the directors view, this gain is not re ective of the underlying performance of the Group and will reverse over time.
The gain has therefore been excluded from adjusted operating pro t. 5 Income tax credit expense i Analysis of total income tax credit expense Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Restated m m 2008 2007 Current tax United Kingdom tax Corporation tax 93 436 Double tax relief 145 399 Overseas tax South Africa 264 403 United States 4 26 Europe 68 73 Secondary Tax on Companies STC 22 74 Prior year adjustments 1 25 Total current tax 307 588 Deferred tax Origination of temporary differences 548 66 Changes in tax rates bases 1 13 Write down recognition of deferred tax assets 154 5 Total deferred tax 395 84 Total income tax credit expense 88 504 Page 184 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5 Income tax expense continued ii Reconciliation of total income tax credit expense Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Restated m m 2008 2007 Pro t before tax 595 1,750 Tax at standard rate of 28.5% 2007: 30% 169 525 Different tax rate or basis on overseas operations 23 20 Untaxed and low taxed income 218 166 Disallowable expenses 8 90 Net movement on deferred tax assets not recognised 123 38 Effect on deferred tax of changes in tax rates 5 18 STC 53 57 Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 169 51 Other 26 23 Total income tax credit expense 88 504 iii Income tax on adjusted operating pro t Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Restated m m 2008 2007 Income tax credit expense 88 504 Tax on adjusting items Impact of acquisition accounting 46 65 Pro t on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 12 10 Short-term uctuations in investment return 35 37 Income tax attributable to policyholders returns 236 60 Secondary Tax on Companies STC on dividends paid 35 Tax on dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities recognised in equity 12 9 Fair value gains on group debt instruments 143 Income tax on adjusted operating pro t 86 418 Page 185 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 6 Minority interests Income statement i Minority interests ordinary shares The minority interest charge to pro t for the financial year has been calculated on the basis of the Groups effective ownership of the subsidiaries in which it does not own 100 percent of the ordinary equity.
The principal subsidiaries where a minority exists are the Groups banking and general insurance businesses in South Africa.
For the year ended 31 December 2008 the minority interest attributable to ordinary shares was 188 million 2007: 224 million.
ii Minority interests preferred securities At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 R2,000 million non-cumulative preference shares 14 13 R792 million non-cumulative preference shares 5 5 R300 million non-cumulative preference shares 1 1 US$750 million cumulative preferred securities 32 30 R364 million non-cumulative preference shares 2 1 Minority interest preferred securities 54 50 iii Minority interests adjusted operating pro t The following table reconciles minority interests share of pro t for the financial year to minority interests share of adjusted operating pro t: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m Reconciliation of minority interests share of pro t for the financial year 2008 2007 The minority interest charge is analysed as follows: Minority interest ordinary shares 188 224 Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting Pro t on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 2 Short-term uctuations in investment return 11 Income attributable to Black Economic Empowerment trusts of listed subsidiaries 30 29 Fair value gains on group debt instruments 6 Income attributable to US Asset Management minority holdings 7 11 Minority interest share of adjusted operating pro t 218 242 The Group uses revised weighted average effective ownership interests when calculating the minority interest applicable to the adjusted operating pro t of its South Africa banking and general insurance businesses.
This re ects the legal ownership of these businesses following the implementation for Black Economic Empowerment BEE schemes in 2005.
In accordance with IFRS accounting rules the shares issued for BEE purposes are deemed to be, in substance, options.
Therefore the effective ownership interest of the minorities re ected in arriving at pro t after tax in the consolidated income statement is lower than that applied in arriving at adjusted operating pro t after tax.
In 2008 the increase in adjusted operating pro t attributable to minority interests as a result of this was 30 million 2007: 29 million.
Page 186 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 7 Earnings and earnings per share i Basic and diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the pro t for the financial year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding own shares held in policyholder funds, ESOP trusts, Black Economic Empowerment trusts and other related undertakings.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Pro t for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 441 972 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities 31 31 Pro t attributable to ordinary equity holders 410 941 Total dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities of 43 million in 2008 2007: 40 million are stated net of tax credits of 12 million 2007: 9 million.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Millions Millions 2008 2007 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 5,294 5,492 Shares held in charitable foundations 19 20 Shares held in ESOP trusts 45 61 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares 5,230 5,411 Shares held in life funds 240 282 Shares held in Black Economic Empowerment trusts 235 235 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 4,755 4,894 Basic earnings per ordinary share pence 8.6 19.2 Diluted earnings per share recognises the dilutive impact of share options held in ESOP trusts and Black Economic Empowerment trusts which are currently in the money in the calculation of the weighted average number of shares, as if the relevant shares were in issue for the full period.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Millions Millions 2008 2007 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 4,755 4,894 Adjustments for share options held by ESOP trusts 61 63 Adjustments for shares held in Black Economic Empowerment trusts 235 235 5,051 5,192 Diluted earnings per ordinary share pence 8.1 18.1 Page 187 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 7 Earnings and earnings per share continued ii Adjusted operating earnings per ordinary share Adjusted operating earnings per ordinary share is determined based on adjusted operating pro t. Adjusted operating pro t represents the directors view of the underlying performance of the Group.
For long-term and general insurance business adjusted operating pro t is based on a long-term investment return, includes investment returns on life funds investments in Group equity and debt instruments and is stated net of income tax attributable to policyholder returns.
For the US Asset Management business it includes compensation costs in respect of certain long-term incentive schemes fide ned as minority interests in accordance with IFRS.
For all businesses, adjusted operating pro t excludes goodwill impairment, the impact of acquisition accounting, revaluations of put options related to long-term incentive schemes, the impact of closure of unclaimed shares trusts, pro t loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments, dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities, income expense from closure of unclaimed shares trusts and fair value gains losses on Group debt instruments.
The reconciliation of pro t for the financial year to adjusted operating pro t after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Pro t for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 441 972 Adjusting items 168 66 Tax on adjusting items 62 26 Minority interest on adjusting items 30 18 Adjusted operating pro t after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders 641 914 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares millions 5,230 5,411 Adjusted operating earnings per ordinary share pence 12.2 16.9 8 Investment return non-banking Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Restated m m 2008 2007 Interest and similar income Loans and advances 34 10 Investments and securities 1,918 1,571 Government and  securities 253 323 Other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 916 731 Pooled investments 54 57 Short-term funds and securities treated as investments 290 283 Other 405 177 Cash and cash equivalents 108 103 Total interest and similar income 2,060 1,684 Dividend income investments and securities 513 384 Equity securities 480 341 Pooled investments 33 43 Fair value gains and losses recognised in income 14,207 4,187 Investments and securities 12,921 3,764 Derivatives 25 44 Investment property 143 277 Other 1,118 190 Rental income from investment property 71 57 Foreign currency losses gains 15 6 Total investment return recognised in income 11,578 6,318 Page 188 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 8 Investment return non-banking continued Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Restated m m 2008 2007 Total interest income for assets not at fair value through income statement 851 620 The fair value gains and losses shown above are analysed according to their IAS 39 categorisations as follows: Held for trading including derivatives 26 48 Designated at fair value through income statement 13,787 3,910 Available-for-sale financial assets 414 36 Loans and receivables 1 1 14,226 3,923 Investment property 143 277 Realised fair value gains and losses included in the above 2 5,928 The fair value gains losses on available for sale financial assets shown above re ect the amount previously recognised as unrealised within the available for sale reserve in equity that have been recycled to the income statement on disposal or impairment of the particular assets.
Included within fair value gains and losses on available-for-sale investments and securities are impairment losses of 414 million 2007: 32 million relating to securities held by the Groups US Life business.
9 Banking interest and similar income Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Interest and similar income Loans and advances 3,701 2,942 Mortgage loans 1,958 1,531 Finance lease and instalment debtors 545 457 Credit cards 89 71 Bills and acceptances 4 7 Overdrafts 149 122 Term loans and other 956 754 Investments and securities 345 244 Government and  securities 210 137 Other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 135 107 Cash and cash equivalents 13 4 Total interest and similar income 4,059 3,190 Total interest income for assets not at fair value through income statement 3,779 2,880 Total interest income on impaired financial assets 77 Page 189 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 10 Banking trading, investment and similar income Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Dividend income investments and securities 16 11 Equity securities 14 10 Pooled investments 2 1 Rental income from investment property 3 4 Exchange and other non-interest income 43 62 Derivative income 49 45 Exchange 6 Securities dealing 22 16 Fair value gains 10 1 Net trading income 100 93 Foreign exchange 76 51 Debt securities 36 24 Equities 12 16 Other 2 Total banking trading, investment and similar income 162 170 The fair value gains and losses shown above are analysed according to their IAS 39 categorisations as follows: Held-for-trading including derivatives 61 20 Designated at fair value through income statement 85 20 Loans and receivables 1 24 1 Realised fair value gains included in the above 19 47 11 Fee and commission income, and income from service activities Long-term Asset General business management Banking insurance Total Year ended 31 December 2008 m m m m m Fee and commission income 950 910 507 18 2,385 Transaction and performance fees 34 34 Change in deferred revenue 109 4 1 2 106 841 948 508 16 2,313 Year ended 31 December 2007 Fee and commission income 977 1,007 501 18 2,503 Transaction and performance fees 132 132 Change in deferred revenue 139 21 160 838 1,118 501 18 2,475 The amounts shown above for asset management relate to fees earned on trust and duciary activities where the group holds or invests assets on behalf of its customers.
Page 190 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 12 Finance costs Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m Note 2008 2007 Interest payable on borrowed funds 89 86 Senior debt and term loans 26 25 Subordinated debt 65 60 Other 2 1 Fair value gains and losses on borrowed funds 474 37 Borrowed funds 434 29 Derivative instruments 40 8 Foreign currency gains and losses on borrowed funds 6 Reserve movements relating to debt and derivative instruments 1 1 Total finance costs excluding banking activities 392 50 Finance costs from banking activities 13 79 68 Total interest expense included above for liabilities not at fair value through income statement 27 29 The fair value gains and losses shown above are analysed according to their IAS 39 categorisations as follows: Held for trading including derivatives 40 8 Designated at fair value through income statement 434 29 474 37 Realised fair value gains and losses included in the above 13 Banking interest payable and similar expense Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Amounts owed to bank depositors 2,594 1,854 Deposits and loan accounts 1,698 1,216 Current and savings accounts 267 203 Negotiable certi cates of deposit 550 367 Long-term debt instruments 79 68 Other liabilities 259 199 Total interest payable and similar expenses 2,853 2,053 Total interest expense included above for liabilities not at fair value through income statement 2,038 1,723 Page 191 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 14 Fee and commission expenses, and other acquisition costs Long-term Asset General business management insurance Total Year ended 31 December 2008 m m m m Fees and commission expenses 804 170 103 1,077 Changes in deferred acquisition costs 184 7 2 193 Other acquisition costs 46 7 53 666 170 101 937 Year ended 31 December 2007 Fees and commission expenses 846 210 128 1,184 Changes in deferred acquisition costs 457 32 489 Other acquisition costs 68 15 83 457 193 128 778 15 Other operating and administrative expenses i Other operating and administrative expenses includes: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m Note 2008 2007 Staff costs 15 ii 1,463 1,573 Depreciation 17 74 73 Software costs 24 29 Operating lease rentals banking 44 41 Operating lease rentals non-banking 58 49 Amortisation of intangibles 329 338 Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 100 5 ii Staff costs Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m Note 2008 2007 Staff costs Wages and salaries 1,011 971 Social security costs 60 52 Retirement obligations fide ned contribution plans 37 45 fide ned bene t plans 24 3 Other retirement bene ts 3 4 Bonus and incentive remuneration 200 358 Share-based payments Cash settled 41 viii 3 2 Equity settled 41 viii 21 38 Termination bene ts 2 3 Long-term employee bene ts 4 4 Other 146 103 1,463 1,573 Page 192 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15 Other operating and administrative expenses continued Number Number 2008 2007 The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year was: Long-term business 20,814 20,188 Banking 27,257 26,314 Asset management 5,506 5,257 General insurance 2,703 3,448 Other 266 148 56,546 55,355 iii Fees to Groups auditors Included in other operating expenses are fees paid to the Groups auditors.
These can be categorised as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Fees for audit services Group 1.5 1.3 Subsidiaries 9.7 8.4 Pension schemes 0.3 0.3 Total audit fees 11.5 10.0 Fees for non-audit services Taxation 0.9 0.3 Information technology 0.1 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.4 Valuation and actuarial 0.2 0.7 Corporate finance transactions 0.1 Any other services 2.7 2.8 Total non-audit services 4.3 3.9 Total Group auditors remuneration 15.8 13.9 In addition to the above, fees of 2.6 million 2007: 2.5 million were payable to other auditors in respect of joint audit arrangements of Nedbank, the Groups banking subsidiary in South Africa.
Page 193 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 16 Goodwill and other intangible assets Present value of acquired Software Other in-force development intangible Goodwill business costs assets Total m m m m m At 31 December 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 Cost Balance at beginning of the year 2,762 2,559 2,736 2,543 423 358 804 758 6,725 6,218 Acquisitions through business combinations 40 122 101 1 15 40 239 Additions 82 90 4 82 94 Foreign exchange and other movements 496 127 393 92 12 3 114 27 1,015 249 Disposals or retirements 26 3 2 2 5 28 Transfer from to non-current assets held-for-sale 18 20 34 27 52 47 Balance at end of the year 3,316 2,762 3,129 2,736 548 423 916 804 7,909 6,725 Amortisation and impairment losses Balance at beginning of the year 133 130 728 431 261 222 144 68 1,266 851 Amortisation charge for the year 286 290 43 48 75 70 404 408 Impairment losses 74 25 1 1 1 100 2 Foreign exchange and other movements 19 10 165 7 17 5 32 5 233 27 Disposals or retirements 1 1 1 1 Transfer from to non-current assets held-for-sale 9 7 16 14 25 21 Balance at end of the year 235 133 1,179 728 361 261 252 144 2,027 1,266 Carrying amount Balance at beginning of the year 2,629 2,429 2,008 2,112 162 136 660 690 5,459 5,367 Balance at end of the year 3,081 2,629 1,950 2,008 187 162 664 660 5,882 5,459 The majority of other intangible assets comprise distribution channels, customer relationships and brands associated with the Skandia business acquired during 2006.
The increase in the goodwill balance arising on acquisitions through business combinations comprises 3 million 2007: 51 million in respect of various acquisitions by the Groups US Asset Management business, 21 million 2007: 70 million relating to the purchase of additional interests in Nedbank and 16 million 2007: 1 million relating to various other small acquisitions.
Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill is reviewed for each cash generating unit CGU annually and the recoverable amounts are determined as the higher of the value in use or net selling price calculations.
A goodwill impairment charge is recognised when the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value.
The CGU groupings utilised in the goodwill impairment testing correspond to the reportable segments re ected in note 3 of the financial statements.
The goodwill balance recognised primarily relates to the European CGUs of Nordic, UK and ELAM, the US Life and US Asset Management units as well as Nedbank.
The principles underlying the key assumptions used in the determination of the recoverable amounts are applied consistently and are outlined below for each of the principal lines of business which generate revenue for the Group and which has goodwill allocated to it.
Goodwill impairment and other charges The goodwill impairment charge recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2008 was 74 million 2007: 3 million included within transfer from non-current assets held-for-sale.
The component of the charge that relates to impairments based on comparisons to value-in-use calculations amounts to 62 million and relates to the US Life CGU following an assessment of the embedded value of that CGU in the current economic environment.
There have been no reversals of impairment charges in the current year 2007: nil.
Details of how the impairment loss has been determined are given below.
Page 194 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 16 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Goodwill impairment and other charges continued The remaining 12 million expense 2007: nil relates to an adjustment to the goodwill allocated to the Nordic CGU on the acquisition of Skandia as a result of the recognition, in 2008, of previously unrecognised pre-acquisition tax losses in that business unit, in accordance with the initial accounting requirements contained within IFRS 3.
Key assumptions applied to the value in use calculations Long-term business The shareholders recoverable amount within the long-term business is determined using embedded value methodology plus a value in use calculation for the value of new business VNB.
VNB represents the present value of future pro ts from expected new business.
Embedded value represents the shareholders interest in the long-term business and is calculated in accordance with established industry practice.
The methodology and signi cant assumptions underlying the determination of embedded value is disclosed in the supplementary information shown on pages 260 to 270 of the Group embedded value report.
The Group adopted Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV methodology in the current year.
The differences between the key assumptions applied in the current year and in the prior year are disclosed on pages 295 and 296.
The cash ows included in the value in use calculations are actuarially determined with reference to the embedded value methodology and utilises the inputs from the latest business plans approved by management.
Projections beyond the three-year business plan period have been extrapolated using a conservative in ation based growth assumption.
The cash ows are discounted at the 10 year government bond gilt rates relevant to the geographic region in question, which is adjusted to re ect the particular risks and uncertainties which could cause variations in the timing, amount or liquidity of the cash ows derived from the assets.
The key assumptions that affect the value in use calculations are detailed for each of the CGUs below.
In the prior year the value of new business component of the long-term business value in use calculation was calculated as a multiple of one years new business value generation.
The multiple was determined by reference to market multiples for similar transactions of similar businesses.
Asset management and banking business The recoverable amount associated with the asset management and banking business has been determined under the value in use methodology.
As for the long-term business, the cash ows are based on the latest three-year business plans approved by management, extrapolations beyond that period used conservative in ation based growth rates.
The assumptions underlying the business plans include market share, sales growth and investment performance.
The cash ows are discounted at the relevant 10 year government bond gilt rates, adjusted to re ect the particular risks and uncertainties which could cause variations in the timing, amount or liquidity of the cash ows derived from the assets.
Results of the impairments tests performed Europe The goodwill recognised in the CGUs within the European region relate primarily to the acquisition of Skandia.
UK and ELAM generate revenues through their long-term and asset management businesses.
Nordic also has a banking business as an additional principal source of revenue.
There has been no goodwill impairment recognised in the current financial year 2007: nil based on the value in use calculations performed for each of these CGUs.
The key assumptions used in the long-term, asset management and banking value in use calculations for the European CGUs are as follows: The assumed growth rates used in the extrapolation of the forecasted cash ows beyond the three-year period included in the latest approved business plans The rate used is a conservative in ation based growth assumption, which varies by CGU.
ELAM, which incorporates a number of European countries, uses a weighted average calculation to determine the growth rate of 3.2 percent applied to its long-term business and of 3.6 percent for the mutual fund business.
Nordic has applied the Riksbanken in ation target of 2 percent to all principal business lines.
UK applied 1.3 percent to the long-term business and 1.6 percent as the growth rate for mutual funds.
The discount rate The applied rate uses the relevant 10-year government bond rate as a starting point, which is adjusted for an equity market risk premium and other relevant risk adjustments which are determined using market valuation models and other observable references.
The rate is considered to be representative of the cost of equity relevant to the CGU.
For the long-term businesses a rate of 11.6 percent has been applied in the UK, 10 percent for Nordic and 10.9 percent for ELAM.
A rate of 8.6 percent has been applied to the Nordic banking and mutual funds businesses.
A rate of 11.6 percent in the UK and 16.8 percent in ELAM was applied to the asset management businesses.
For Nordic, the banking and asset management cash ows are extrapolated for one year beyond the business plan period, whereas for the other businesses two additional years are added.
The embedded value components are projected for the period detailed in the Groups embedded value disclosures.
Management believe that any reasonable change in the assumptions would not cause the recoverable amounts of the Nordic and UK CGUs to fall below the carrying amounts.
A reasonable adverse change in the assumptions used in the value in use calculation for ELAM for example, reducing expected sales growth by 10 percent or increasing the risk discount rate by 3 percent would be absorbed before the recoverable amounts fall below the carrying amount for this CGU.
Page 195 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 16 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued North America Goodwill attributable to North America originally related to the acquisition of the US Life business and US Asset Management.
The goodwill associated with these businesses was evaluated for impairment using the methodology described above.
The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations for the US Asset Management CGU are the following: An assumed growth rate of 7 percent 2007: 6 percent was applied to the extrapolation of cash ows beyond the three-year business plan period.
Extrapolation was performed for two years beyond the business plan period.
The risk adjusted discount rate applied was 17 percent 2007: 14 percent.
No impairment has been recognised for the US Asset Management business.
Management believe that a reasonable adverse change in the assumptions used in the value in use calculation for example, reducing the terminal growth rate to 5 percent for that CGU would be absorbed before the recoverable amounts fall below the carrying amounts.
Given the current economic market environment, an external appraisal value was obtained for the US Life CGU.
The appraisal, published by Milliman a rm of consulting actuaries, discounted the embedded value of the in force business at a risk adjusted rate of 15 percent.
Based on the results of the impairment tests, it has been necessary to recognise an impairment of 62 million 2007: nil for the US Life business, which amounts to the full amount of goodwill that relates to this CGU.
Africa The goodwill for South Africa primarily relates to Nedbank.
The impairment test has been performed using the value in use methodology detailed above.
Ther e was no impairment recognised for this CGU in the current financial year 2007: nil.
The discount rate applied is approximately 11 percent 2007: 12 percent.
A 5 percent growth rate was applied to extrapolate cash ows for an additional two years beyond the three-year business plan period.
Goodwill by cash generating unit The following table is an analysis of the goodwill, net of amortisation and impairment losses by principal cash generating units: At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 US Asset Management 1,271 932 US Life 57 Nedbank 308 318 UK 644 639 Nordic 222 196 ELAM 574 436 Other 62 51 Goodwill, net of impairment losses 3,081 2,629 Goodwill and other intangible assets by segment South United Europe Africa States Other Total At 31 December 2008 m m m m m Goodwill and intangible assets, net of amortisation and impairment losses 3,930 486 1,442 24 5,882 Amortisation 332 28 44 404 Impairment losses 30 8 62 100 South United Europe Africa States Other Total At 31 December 2007 m m m m m Goodwill and intangible assets, net of amortisation and impairment losses 3,839 448 1,141 31 5,459 Amortisation 340 37 31 408 Impairment losses 1 1 2 Page 196 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 17 Property, plant and equipment Plant and Land Buildings equipment Total m m m m 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 Gross carrying amount Balance at beginning of the year 73 53 360 290 547 514 980 857 Additions 3 16 4 83 108 99 115 Additions from business combinations 1 1 Increase arising from revaluation 2 17 20 87 22 104 Disposals 20 36 43 36 63 Foreign exchange and other movements 1 1 5 32 2 31 8 Transfer from to non-current asset held-for-sale 1 1 10 7 34 34 45 42 Balance at end of the year 76 73 405 360 660 547 1,141 980 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Balance at beginning of the year 10 13 362 345 372 358 Depreciation charge for the year 8 8 66 65 74 73 Disposals 4 28 30 28 34 Foreign exchange and other movements 6 6 24 4 18 2 Transfer from to non-current asset held-for-sale 1 1 22 22 23 23 Balance at end of the year 13 10 446 362 459 372 Carrying amount Balance at beginning of the year 73 53 350 277 185 169 608 499 Balance at end of the year 76 73 392 350 214 185 682 608 The carrying value of property, plant and equipment leased to third parties under operating leases, included in the above is 33 million 2007: 28 million and comprises land of 5 million 2007: 4 million and buildings of 28 million 2007: 24 million.
There are no restrictions on property, plant and equipment title as a result of security pledges and no contractual commitments for the acquisition of plant, property and equipment.
The revaluation of land and buildings relates to OMSA, 1 million and 15 million respectively 2007: 2 million and 67 million, Nedbank, 1 million and 5 million respectively 2007: 15 million and 20 million.
For OMSA, land and buildings are valued as at 31 December each year by internal professional valuers and external valuations are obtained once every three years.
External professional valuers are used for Nedbank.
For both businesses the valuation methodology adopted is dependent upon the nature of the property.
Income generating assets are valued using discounted cash ows and vacant land and property are valued according to sales of comparable properties.
The carrying value that would have been recognised had the land and buildings been carried under the cost model would be 19 million 2007: 19 million and 91 million 2007: 92 million respectively for OMSA and 12 million 2007: 13 million and 92 million 2007: 86 million for Nedbank respectively.
Capital expenditure and depreciation by segment South United Africa States Europe Other Total Year ended 31 December 2008 m m m m m Capital expenditure, net of depreciation 607 27 44 4 682 Depreciation 53 7 11 3 74 South United Africa States Europe Other Total Year ended 31 December 2007 m m m m m Capital expenditure, net of depreciation 544 17 39 8 608 Depreciation 54 6 13 73 Page 197 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 18 Investment property Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Balance at beginning of the year 1,479 1,149 Additions 145 50 Additions from business combinations Disposals 13 12 Net loss gain from fair value adjustments 143 277 Foreign exchange and other movements 10 15 Balance at end of the year 1,478 1,479 In 2008 additions of 144 million 2007: 49 million related to OMSA and 1 million 2007: 1 million related to Nedbank.
Of the net loss gain arising from fair value adjustments on investment properties, 31 million gain 2007: 263 million gain related to OMSA, 1 million gain 2007: 1 million gain related to Nedbank, 5 million gain 2007: nil related to other African businesses and 180 million loss 2007: 13 million gain related to UK.
The fair value of investment property leased to third parties under operating leases is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Freehold 1,478 1,471 Long leaseholds Short leaseholds 8 1,478 1,479 Rental income from investment property 84 80 Direct operating expense arising from investment property that generated rental income 16 25 68 55 The carrying amount of investment property is the fair value of the property as determined by a registered independent valuer at least every three years, and annually by locally quali ed staff, having an appropriate recognised professional quali cation and recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued.
Fair values are determined having regard to recent market transactions for similar properties in the same location as the Groups investment property.
The Groups current lease arrangements, which are entered into on an arms length basis and which are comparable to those for similar properties in the same location, are taken into account.
Of the total investment property of 1,478 million 2007: 1,479 million, 1,296 million 2007: 1,117 million is attributable to South Africa and 182 million 2007: 362 million to Europe.
Page 198 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 19 Operating lease arrangements i The Group as lessee Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 2008 2007 Banking 43 46 Non-banking 33 30 Minimum lease payments 76 76 Outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, fall due as follows: Banking Non-banking Total Banking Non-banking Total m m m m m m Year ended 31 December 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 Within one year 38 36 74 56 32 88 In the second to fifth years inclusive 117 148 265 281 105 386 After five years 170 114 284 262 35 297 325 298 623 599 172 771 Operating lease payments principally represent rentals payable by the Group for the rental of buildings and equipment.
ii The Group as lessor At At 31 December 31 December m m Assets subject to operating leases 2008 2007 Land 5 4 Buildings 28 24 Investment property 1,478 1,479 1,511 1,507 At At 31 December 31 December m m Future minimum lease payments of contracts with tenants 2008 2007 Within one year 57 51 In the second to fifth years inclusive 132 129 After five years 27 41 216 221 Page 199 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 20 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred income taxes are calculated on all temporary differences at the tax rate applicable to the jurisdiction in which the timing differences arise.
i Deferred tax assets The movement on the deferred tax assets account is as follows: Income Foreign statement Charged Acquisition exchange 1 January charge credited to disposals of and other 31 December 2008 credit equity subsidiaries movements 2008 m m m m m m Insurance funds 71 158 2 67 298 Tax losses carried forward 139 140 2 69 346 Accelerated capital allowances 40 29 6 17 Available for sale securities 47 34 391 112 584 Other temporary differences 356 165 5 98 284 Netted against liabilities 123 78 18 63 Deferred fee income 153 21 50 124 683 237 391 5 284 1,590 Income Foreign statement Charged Acquisition exchange 1 January charge credited to disposals of and other 31 December 2007 credit equity subsidiaries movements 2007 m m m m m m Insurance funds 125 57 3 71 Tax losses carried forward 337 231 33 139 Accelerated capital allowances 42 2 40 Available for sale securities 50 3 47 Other temporary differences 7 322 7 7 13 356 Netted against liabilities 102 21 123 Deferred fee income 86 67 153 511 18 57 7 90 683 Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward only to the extent that realisation of the related tax bene t is probable.
The amounts for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised comprise: Gross amount Tax Gross amount Tax m m m m At 31 December 2008 2008 2007 2007 Unrelieved tax losses Expiring within one year 54 2 Expiring in the second to fifth years inclusive 1,222 109 262 17 Expiring after five years 1,826 541 825 177 Accelerated capital allowances 19 5 19 6 Other timing differences 28 8 207 68 3,149 665 1,313 268 Page 200 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 20 Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued ii Deferred tax liabilities The movement on the deferred tax liabilities account is as follows: Income Foreign statement Charged Acquisition exchange 1 January charge credited to disposals of and other 31 December 2008 credit equity subsidiaries movements 2008 m m m m m m Accelerated tax depreciation 25 1 24 Deferred acquisition costs 534 47 16 118 715 Leasing 80 9 17 54 PVIF 256 32 34 258 Other acquired intangibles 103 12 16 107 Available for sale securities 2 2 Other temporary differences 429 169 9 13 256 Policyholder tax 109 60 50 99 Netted against assets 123 78 18 63 1,413 158 25 172 1,452 Income Foreign statement Charged Acquisition exchange 1 January charge credited to disposals of and other 31 December 2007 credit equity subsidiaries movements 2007 m m m m m m Accelerated tax depreciation 5 15 5 25 Deferred acquisition costs 338 142 27 27 534 Leasing 173 91 2 80 PVIF 311 63 8 256 Other acquired intangibles 109 11 5 103 Available for sale securities 4 4 Other temporary differences 453 91 1 114 429 Policyholder tax 45 154 109 Netted against assets 102 21 123 1,393 64 23 1 62 1,413 As the Group is able to control the reversal of temporary differences in respect of investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and JVs and it is probable that these temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future, there is no need to provide for the associated deferred tax liabilities.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences on which further tax might be due if these temporary differences reversed would be estimated at 3.2 billion 2007: 2.2 billion.
Page 201 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 21 Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures i Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures The Groups investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures accounted for under the equity method are as follows: Interest Carrying Group share Country of operation held value of pro t loss As 31 December 2008 % m m Clidet No.
638 Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 49 19 Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life Insurance Ltd India 26 26 3 Skandia BSAM China 50 11 3 Visigro Investments Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 30 8 Odyssey Developments Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 49 8 All other associated undertakings 39 5 111 1 All of the above investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures are unlisted.
All investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures are equity accounted using financial information as at 31 December 2008.
Interest Carrying Group share Country of operation held value of pro t loss As 31 December 2007 % m m Clidet No.
638 Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 49 16 Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life Insurance Ltd India 26 25 3 Skandia BSAM China 50 11 3 Visigro Investments Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 30 4 Odyssey Developments Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 49 8 All other associated undertakings 17 5 81 1 ii Aggregate financial information of investments in associated undertakings The aggregate financial information for all investments in associated undertakings is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Total assets 476 428 Total liabilities 417 353 Total revenues 148 125 Net loss after tax 1 1 Page 202 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 21 Investments in associated undertakings continued iii Aggregate Group investment in associated undertakings The aggregate amounts for the Groups investment in associated undertakings are as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Balance at beginning of the year 81 83 Net additions of investment in associated undertakings 18 8 Share of loss after tax 1 1 Dividends paid 8 8 Foreign exchange and other movements 21 1 Balance at end of the year 111 81 The Group has no signi cant investments in which it owns less than 20 percent of the ordinary share capital that it accounts for using the equity method.
iv Other Group holdings The above does not include companies whereby the Group has a holding of more than 20 percent, but does not have signi cant in uence over these companies by virtue of the Group not having any direct involvement in decision making or the other owners possessing veto rights.
v Contingent liabilities The Group is severally liable for the contingent liabilities relating to investments in associated undertakings of 1 million 2007: 2 million.
22 Deferred acquisition costs Insurance Investment Asset contracts contracts management Total Year end 31 December 2008 m m m m Balance at beginning of the year 1,422 717 114 2,253 New business 234 286 47 567 Amortisation 80 97 40 217 Unlocking of deferred acquisition costs 159 159 Foreign exchange and other movements 677 55 10 742 Transfer from assets held-for-sale 13 13 Balance at end of the year 2,107 961 131 3,199 Insurance Investment Asset contracts contracts management Total Year end 31 December 2007 m m m m Balance at beginning of the year 1,103 401 74 1,578 New business 364 357 67 788 Amortisation 78 58 35 171 Unlocking of deferred acquisition costs 30 30 Foreign exchange and other movements 70 17 8 95 Transfer to assets held-for-sale 7 7 Balance at end of the year 1,422 717 114 2,253 Page 203 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 23 Long-term insurance business policyholder and general insurance liabilities Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net m m m m m m At 31 December 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 Long-term business policyholder liabilities Insurance contracts 28,106 550 27,556 23,637 727 22,910 Investment contracts Unit-linked investment contracts and similar contracts 45,161 551 44,610 52,171 636 51,535 Other investment contracts 1,965 1,965 1,574 1,574 Discretionary participating investment contracts 5,647 5,647 6,404 6,404 Outstanding claims 390 47 343 465 31 434 81,269 1,148 80,121 84,251 1,394 82,857 General insurance liabilities Claims incurred but not reported 45 8 37 Unearned premiums 79 26 53 Outstanding claims 220 81 139 344 115 229 Long-term insurance business policyholder and general insurance liabilities 81,613 1,263 80,350 84,251 1,394 82,857 Of the 1,263 million 2007: 1,394 million included in reinsurers share of long-term business policyholder and general insurance liabilities is an amount of 705 million 2007: 682 million which is classi ed as current, the remainder being non-current.
Of the 164 million 2007: 213 million included in deposits held with reinsurers 124 million 2007: 183 million is classi ed as current, the remainder being non-current.
Movements in the amounts outstanding in respect of long-term business policyholder liabilities, other than outstanding claims, are set out below.
i Insurance contracts Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net m m m m m m Year ended 31 December 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 Balance at beginning of the year 23,637 727 22,910 21,877 717 21,160 Income Premium income 4,062 152 3,910 4,107 128 3,979 Investment income 993 993 1,805 1,805 Other income 2 2 13 13 Expenses Claims and policy bene ts 3,681 147 3,534 3,479 111 3,368 Operating expenses 290 290 274 274 Currency translation loss gain 4,320 151 4,169 33 10 23 Other charges and transfers 1,229 326 1,555 160 10 170 Taxation 12 12 29 29 Transfer from to operating pro t 192 7 185 190 7 183 Balance at end of the year 28,106 550 27,556 23,637 727 22,910 Page 204 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23 Long-term insurance business policyholder and general insurance liabilities continued ii Unit-linked investment contracts and similar contracts, and other investment contracts Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Balance at beginning of the year 53,745 47,338 New contributions received 8,616 9,942 Maturities 762 729 Withdrawals and surrenders 5,470 5,305 Fair value movements 10,085 455 Foreign exchange and other movements 1,082 2,044 Balance at end of the year 47,126 53,745 iii Discretionary participating investment contracts Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Balance at beginning of the year 6,404 5,690 Income Premium income 524 515 Investment income 362 818 Currency translation gains losses 128 54 Other income 15 34 1,402 Expenses Claims and policy bene ts 641 535 Operating expenses 59 56 Other charges and transfers 31 31 Taxation 3 6 728 628 Transfer to operating pro t 63 60 Balance at end of the year 5,647 6,404 iv Maturity analysis A maturity analysis of long-term and general insurance policyholder liabilities is shown in the following table: Undiscounted cash ows More than Balance 3 months Between sheet Less than less than 1 and 5 More than amount 3 months 1 year years 5 years Total At 31 December 2008 m m m m m m Long-term business Insurance contracts 28,106 1,046 2,426 12,912 31,690 48,074 Investment contracts Unit-linked investment contracts and similar contracts 45,161 41,555 369 666 2,970 45,560 Other investment contracts 1,965 39 112 590 1,282 2,023 Discretionary participating investment contracts 5,647 5,944 14 69 149 6,176 Outstanding claims 390 346 12 30 68 456 81,269 48,930 2,933 14,267 36,159 102,289 General insurance liabilities Claims incurred but not reported 45 27 16 2 45 Unearned premium 79 4 49 26 79 Outstanding claims 220 145 57 18 220 344 176 122 46 344 81,613 49,106 3,055 14,313 36,159 102,633 Page 205 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 23 Long-term insurance business policyholder and general insurance liabilities continued iv Maturity analysis continued Undiscounted cash ows More than Balance 3 months Between sheet Less than less than 1 and 5 More than amount 3 months 1 year years 5 years Total At 31 December 2007 m m m m m m Long-term business Insurance contracts 23,637 495 2,489 12,475 29,425 44,884 Investment contracts Unit-linked investment contracts and similar contracts 52,171 47,236 364 947 4,069 52,616 Other investment contracts 1,574 433 129 578 1,001 2,141 Discretionary participating investment contracts 6,404 5,638 3 15 42 5,698 Outstanding claims 465 332 47 27 67 473 84,251 54,134 3,032 14,042 34,604 105,812 v Assumptions Insurance contract provisions are calculated based upon assumptions determined in accordance with local accounting requirements.
As described in the accounting policies, these vary signi cantly between geographies and are therefore discussed separately below.
South Africa In the calculation of liabilities, provision has been made for: the current best estimate of future experience, as described below: plus the compulsory margins as set out in the Actuarial Society of South Africa professional guidance notes: plus discretionary margins re ecting mainly the excess of capital charges over the compulsory investment margin of 0.25 percent for policies that are valued prospectively.
These discretionary margins cause capital charges to be included in operating pro ts as they are charged and ensure that pro ts are released appropriately over the term of each policy.
Other discretionary margins, mainly held to cover: mortality and investment return margins for Group Schemes funeral policies, due to the additional risk associated with this business, and to ensure that pro t is released appropriately over the term of the policies: expense margins in the pricing basis for Employee Bene ts annuities: pro t margins on Employee Bene ts non-pro t annuities to ensure that pro t is released appropriately over the life of the policies: mortality margins on Individual Business life policies, accidental death supplementary bene ts and disability supplementary bene ts, due to uncertainty about future experience: margins on certain Individual Business non-pro t annuities, due to the inability to fully match assets to liabilities as a result of the limited availability of long-dated bonds: interest margins on Employee Bene ts PHI claims in payment due to the inability to fully match assets to liabilities as a result of the high rate of change in the portfolio high volume of new claimants and terminations : and margins on the investment guarantee reserves to mitigate the sensitivity of the reserves calculated on a market-consistent basis to market interest rates in particular.
Liabilities include provisions to meet financial options and guarantees on a market-consistent basis, and make due allowance for potential lapses and surrenders, based on levels recently experienced.
Mortality and disability rates assumed are consistent with Old Mutuals recent experience, or expected future experience if this would result in a higher liability.
In particular, allowance has been made for the expected deterioration in assured lives experience due to HIV AIDS, and for the expected improvement in annuitant mortality.
Page 206 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23 Long-term and general business policyholder liabilities continued v Assumptions continued The provision for expenses before allowing for margins starts at a level consistent with recent experience and allows for an escalation thereafter.
The future gross investment returns by major asset categories and expense in ation excluding margins assumed for South Africa insurance business are as follows: At At 31 December 31 December % % 2008 2007 Fixed interest securities 7.5 8.5 Cash 5.5 6.5 Equities 11.0 12.0 Properties 9.0 10.0 1 1 Future expense in ation 4.5 5.5 1 6.5 percent 2007: 7.5 percent for Individual Business administered on old platforms and 5.5 percent 2007: 6.5 percent for Group Schemes business.
For non-pro t annuities, liabilities are determined by calculating the present value of projected future bene ts and expenses, valued using current xed-interest yields or swap curve yields.
Assumptions are based upon experience as analysed in the following investigations: Type of business Type of investigation Period of investigation Individual Business Flexi business mortality 2003 to 2006 Conventional business mortality 1999 to 2000 Annuitant mortality 2005 to 2007 Greenlight mortality 2001 to 2007 Dread disease 2000 to 2002 Disability 2000 to 2002 Persistency Flexi and Conventional 2006 Persistency Greenlight 2001 to 2007 Group Schemes Mortality 2006 Persistency 2006 to 2007 Employee Bene ts Annuitant mortality 2000 to 2004 Group Assurance Ongoing for the purpose of setting scheme rates All Expenses Reviewed on an annual basis Various assumption changes have been made which have resulted in a net increase in the value of liabilities of 11 million 2007: 22 million increase on the Published basis.
The reserve for investment guarantees which have been calculated on a market-consistent basis was increased by 27 million including a discretionary margin, as a result of the reduction in swap yields and increases in volatilities.
Lower economic assumptions also led to an increase in underlying policy liabilities of 8 million.
The basis for terminations and alterations was strengthened leading to an increase in liabilities of 35 million.
Lower expense and mortality assumptions reduced liabilities by 39 million and 13 million respectively.
Methodology changes and error corrections reduced liabilities by 6 million.
United States Insurance contract provisions and Deferred Acquisition Costs DAC balances for traditional insurance products with xed premiums and bene ts measured according to FAS 60 under US GAAP are calculated using mortality, lapse, expense and discount assumptions as at inception of the contract.
These assumptions are determined based on managements best estimate, re ecting actual and expected experience, and also include provision for adverse deviation.
The assumptions are locked in as of the date of issue, and are revised only where liability adequacy testing based on current best estimate assumptions results in loss recognition.
For insurance products with exible premiums or bene ts measured according to FAS 97 under US GAAP, the account value is held as the base insurance contract provision, and the assumptions below are therefore not applicable.
DAC balances, and additional reserves held for items including lapse guarantees, persistency bonuses and gains followed by losses, utilise best estimate assumptions as of the valuation date.
Mortality rates vary by gender and issue age: lapse rates vary by issue age and duration.
Page 207 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 23 Long-term insurance business policyholder and general insurance liabilities continued v Assumptions continued Reserves for life contingent payout annuities are accumulated using the effective interest rate, which is the rate that discounts future liability cash ows back to the gross premium less transaction costs.
All other FAS 60 products use a discount rate based on best estimate of future yields at policy inception.
Best estimate assumptions as of December 2008 re ect experience as analysed in the following investigations: Assumption Period of investigation Mortality rates assurance 2005 to 2008 Mortality rates annuities 2005 to 2008 Lapse rates 2005 to 2008 Expenses 2005 During the year, the operations of the US long-term business have been operationally segregated into on-shore and off-shore which has had certain consequences for liability adequacy testing of certain liabilities together with the calculation of DAC amortisation for certain product lines.
The liability for guarantees on the xed indexed annuity product was adjusted to include a non-performance risk factor, which reduced the liability by 184 million.
Changes to lapse assumptions in the on-shore deferred annuity and xed index annuity business resulted in a 68 million reduction in DAC.
Segregation of the business led to an increase in liabilities in respect of the on-shore life contingent single premium immediate annuity SPIA product of 235 million as a result of changes to mortality assumptions.
In 2007, on-shore actuarial modelling changes related to spread-based crediting on the xed index annuity business and other assumption changes resulted in a 32 million reduction in DAC.
The on-shore shadow DAC asset relating to unrealised losses in the investment portfolio was written down by 540 million due to insuf cient estimated gross pro ts to which shadow DAC relates.
Changes in shadow DAC are recorded in equity.
Assumption changes were made in respect of the off-shore guarantee liabilities, in respect of non-performance risk, volatility, correlation and fees, which resulted in a net decrease in the value of those liabilities of 61 million.
There were consequential impacts of assumption changes for hedge costs and earned rates that resulted in accelerated DAC amortisation of 92 million.
Europe Insurance contract provisions for the Groups Europe long-term business are limited, and principally comprise technical provisions for pure disability and death bene t cover sold in the United Kingdom and Sweden, together with death bene t risk cover in respect of unit-linked assurance products.
Page 208 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 24 Loans and advances i Summary At At 31 December 31 December m m Notes 2008 2007 Home loans 14,111 12,082 Commercial mortgages 5,325 4,415 Properties in possession 58 23 Credit cards 556 541 Overdrafts 895 990 Policyholder loans 260 204 Other loans to clients 4,443 4,727 Preference shares and debentures 1,142 689 Net finance leases and instalment debtors 4,474 3,866 Gross investment 4,948 4,267 Unearned finance charges 474 401 Factoring accounts 29 36 Trade, other bills and bankers acceptances 78 135 Term loans 4,746 2,988 Remittances in transit 15 14 Deposits placed under reverse purchase agreements 192 429 Gross loans and advances 36,324 31,139 Provisions for impairment Speci c provisions 30 407 322 Portfolio provision 30 172 130 Total net loans and advances 35,745 30,687 Non-performing loans included above had a book value less impairment provisions of 868 million 2007: 487 million.
Impairment provisions in respect of loans and advances is established when there is objective evidence that a loan or group of loans is impaired, including observable data that come to the attention of the Group about the following loss events: signi cant financial dif culty of the borrower: a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: the Group, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrowers financial dif culty, grants to the borrower a concession that the Group would not otherwise consider: it becomes probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation: the disappearance of an active market for that asset because of financial dif culties: or observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash ows from a group of loan assets since the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease cannot yet be identi ed with the individual loans, including: adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers in the group of loans: or national or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults on the assets in the group of loans.
Of the loans and advances shown above, 11,268 million 2007: 10,110 million is receivable within one year of the balance sheet date and is regarded as current.
24,477 million 2007: 20,577 million is regarded as non-current based on the maturity pro le of the assets.
ii Finance lease and instalment debtors Minimum lease Present value of minimum payments receivable lease payments receivable Amounts receivable under finance leases m m m m At 31 December 2008 2007 2008 2007 Within one year 882 828 741 748 In the second to fifth years inclusive 3,283 3,165 2,954 2,869 After five years 783 274 779 249 4,948 4,267 4,474 3,866 Less: unearned finance income 474 401 Present value of minimum lease payments receivable 4,474 3,866 4,474 3,866 The accumulated allowance for uncollectable minimum lease payments receivable is 117 million 2007: 131 million.
Page 209 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 25 Investments and securities At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Government and  securities 8,976 7,234 Other debt securities, preference shares and debentures Listed 14,069 12,621 Unlisted 5,047 4,281 Equity securities Listed 14,976 21,361 Unlisted 1,203 963 Pooled investments Listed 5,215 6,198 Unlisted 29,831 33,400 Short-term funds and securities treated as investments 3,989 3,342 Other 216 227 Total investments and securities 83,522 89,627 Investments and securities are regarded as current and non-current assets based on the intention with which the financial assets are held as well as their contractual maturity pro le.
Of the amounts shown above, 40,905 million 2007: 42,754 million is regarded as current and 42,617 million 2007: 46,873 million are regarded as non-current.
26 Other assets At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Debtors arising from direct insurance operations Amounts owed by policyholders 63 26 Amounts owed by intermediaries 93 88 Other 49 43 205 157 Debtors arising from reinsurance operations 90 91 Outstanding settlements 459 147 Other receivables 1,531 1,365 Accrued interest and rent 508 444 Trading securities and spot positions 62 273 Prepayments and accrued income 151 134 Other assets 131 163 Total other assets 3,137 2,774 Based on the maturity pro le of the above assets, 2,693 million 2007: 2,153 million is regarded as current and 444 million 2007: 621 million as non-current.
Page 210 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 27 Derivative financial instruments assets and liabilities The Group utilises the following derivative instruments for both hedging and non-hedging purposes: Foreign currency, interest rate and equity, or equity index, futures are contractual obligations to receive or pay a net amount based on changes in currency rates or underlying equities, or indices or interest rates or buy or sell foreign currency or a financial instrument on a future date at a speci ed price established in an organised financial market an Exchange.
Since futures contracts are collateralised by cash or marketable securities and changes in the futures contract value are settled daily with the Exchange, the credit risk is negligible.
Forward rate agreements are individually negotiated interest rate contracts that call for a cash settlement at a future date for the difference between a contracted rate of interest and the current market rate, based on a notional principal amount.
Forward foreign exchange contracts are individually negotiated contracts that require settlement of the pre-agreed currency amounts at a future date.
Currency and interest rate swaps are commitments to exchange one set of cash ows for another.
Swaps result in an economic exchange of currencies or interest rates or a combination of both i. e. cross-currency interest rate swaps.
Except for certain currency swaps, no exchange of principal takes place.
The Groups credit risk represents the potential cost to replace the swap contracts if counterparties fail to perform their obligation.
This risk is monitored continuously with reference to the current fair value, a proportion of the notional amount of the contracts and the liquidity of the market.
To control the level of credit risk taken, the Group assesses counterparties using the same techniques as for its lending activities.
Foreign currency, interest rate and equity, or equity index, options are contractual agreements under which the writer grants the holder the right, but not the obligation, either to buy a call option or sell a put option at or by a set date or during a set period, a speci c amount of a foreign currency or a financial instrument or amount of assets determined by reference to an index at a predetermined price.
In consideration for the assumption of foreign exchange, interest rate or asset price risk, the seller receives a premium from the purchaser.
Options may be either exchange-traded or negotiated between the Group and a customer over-the-counter.
The Group is exposed to credit risk on purchased options only, and only to the extent of their carrying amount, which is their fair value.
The notional amounts of certain types of financial instruments provide a basis for comparison with instruments recognised on the balance sheet, but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash ows involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Groups exposure to credit or price risks.
The derivative instruments become in-the-money or out-of-the-money as a result of uctuations in market interest rates, foreign exchange rates or asset prices relative to their terms.
The aggregate contractual or notional amount of derivative financial instruments on hand, the extent to which instruments are in-the-money or out-of-the-money and, therefore, the aggregate fair values of derivative financial assets and liabilities can uctuate signi cantly from time to time.
The following tables provide a detailed breakdown of the contractual or notional amounts and the fair values of the Groups derivative financial instruments outstanding at year end.
These instruments allow the Group and its customers to transfer, modify or reduce their credit, equity market, foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The Group undertakes transactions involving derivative financial instruments with other financial institutions.
Management has established limits commensurate with the credit quality of the institutions with whom it deals, and manages the resulting exposures such that a default by any individual counterparty is unlikely to have a materially adverse impact on the Group.
Page 211 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 27 Derivative financial instruments assets and liabilities continued Notional principals Fair values Positive Negative values values Assets Liabilities At 31 December 2008 m m m m Equity derivatives Options written 863 114 Options purchased 803 1 33 Futures 251 215 8 4 1,054 1,079 41 118 Exchange rate contracts Forwards 9,408 9,872 2,022 2,021 Swaps 1,912 1,483 274 154 Options purchased 357 47 Futures Options written 358 49 11,677 11,713 2,343 2,224 Interest rate contracts Swaps 14,397 10,621 1,890 1,835 Forward rate agreements 4,417 4,543 116 94 Options purchased 2,997 1,256 73 12 Options written 1,821 10 Futures 2,027 1,686 101 90 Caps 253 253 3 1 24,091 20,180 2,183 2,042 Credit derivatives Credit linked notes 128 140 66 11 Credit default swaps 57 60 185 200 66 11 Other derivatives 229 Total 37,007 33,401 4,633 4,395 Page 212 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 27 Derivative financial instruments assets and liabilities continued Notional principals Fair values Positive Negative values values Assets Liabilities At 31 December 2007 m m m m Equity derivatives Options written 3,515 171 Options purchased 3,443 68 Futures 823 1,831 35 65 4,266 5,346 103 236 Exchange rate contracts Forwards 5,765 6,307 917 952 Swaps 2,576 1,186 96 71 Options purchased 445 1 Futures 193 58 Options written 319 2 8,979 7,870 1,014 1,025 Interest rate contracts Swaps 10,153 11,849 294 380 Forward rate agreements 2,744 3,454 8 7 Options purchased 305 2 Options written 339 42 Futures 1,401 1,466 51 25 Caps 487 182 2 1 15,090 17,290 357 455 Credit derivatives Credit linked notes 104 32 Credit default swaps 53 104 53 32 Other derivatives 142 287 21 Total 28,581 30,846 1,527 1,716 The contractual maturities of the derivatives held are as follows: More than No Balance Less 3 months Between contractual sheet than less than 1 and 5 More than maturity amount 3 months 1 year years 5 years date Total At 31 December 2008 m m m m m m m Derivative financial liabilities 4,395 1,262 1,194 1,609 1,920 5,985 More than No Balance Less 3 months Between contractual sheet than less than 1 and 5 More than maturity amount 3 months 1 year years 5 years date Total At 31 December 2007 m m m m m m m Derivative financial liabilities 1,716 1,620 46 15 35 1,716 Page 213 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 28 Hedge accounting Cash ow hedges Cash ow hedge accounting is applied by the Parent Company in respect of the Groups exposures to foreign currency risk.
The Group hedges its foreign currency risk on one of its existing Euro loan borrowings by entering into foreign currency swaps for USD.
These swaps are separated, for accounting purposes, into a EUR GBP swap and a GBP USD swap.
Cash ow hedge accounting is applied to the EUR GBP swap.
At 31 December 2008 the EUR GBP swaps had a notional principal of 29 million 30 million 2007: 22 million 30 million and a fair value of 7 million 2007: minimal.
The GBP USD swap quali es as a net investment hedge, as discussed below.
The maturity date of the final EUR USD swap of 30 million is 11 July 2010 and matches the repayment of the corresponding bond.
The cash ow hedge reserve will be released to the income statement over the remaining life of the swap to offset the currency movements on the loan.
An analysis of amounts in the financial statements relating to derivatives designated as cash ow hedges is shown in the table below: At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Fair value of derivatives designated as cash ow hedges at the balance sheet date Cross currency interest rate swap 30 million Euro loan borrowing 7 7 Analysis of movements in cash ow hedge reserve Cash ow hedge at beginning of the year 1 Amount recognised in equity during the year 2 Amount removed from equity and recognised in income statement during the year Finance costs borrowed funds 1 Cash ow hedge reserve at end of year 2 The cash ow hedge reserve is included in Other reserves in the statement of changes in equity.
In respect of the cross currency swap discussed above, cash ows will occur annually on 11 July until 11 July 2010.
There was no ineffectiveness in respect of either of the above cash ow hedges during the financial year 2007: nil.
Net investment hedges The Group uses a combination of currency swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and debt raised in the currency of the exposure to mitigate the translation effect of holding overseas companies.
The following table summarises the Groups open positions with respect to financial instruments utilised for net investment hedging purposes.
Open positions at year-end EUR USD ZAR SEK At 31 December 2008 m m m m Forward contracts 20 232 86 1 Currency swaps 356 356 2 Debt 96 303 96 679 232 442 Open positions at year-end EUR USD ZAR SEK At 31 December 2007 m m m m Forward contracts 38 182 52 1 Currency swaps 262 318 2 Debt 106 161 406 182 531 1 Excludes $35 million 2007: $35 million of currency swaps that do not qualify for hedge accounting.
2 Excludes $750 million and 500 million 2007: $750 million and 500 million of financial instruments accounted as minority interests or as equity.
Page 214 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 28 Hedge accounting continued Net investment hedges continued An analysis of amounts in the financial statements relating to derivatives designated as net investment hedges is shown in the table below: At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Fair value of financial instruments designated as net investment hedges at the balance sheet date 30 million cross currency swap fair value of net investment hedge only 2 4 SEK forward foreign exchange contracts 2 1 ZAR forward foreign exchange contracts 25 5 300 million cross currency swap 57 16 750 million cross currency swap 84 2 170 20 The 30 million Euro loan borrowing cross currency swap is designated to hedge the foreign exchange currency exposure to USD assets in respect of the Groups investment in its US operations.
The ZAR forwards are designated as hedges against the foreign currency risk in respect of the Groups investment in its South African operations.
SEK forwards are used to hedge foreign currency risk in respect of the Groups investment in Skandia.
The 300 million cross currency swap is used to hedge SEK currency risk on SEK based assets in the Groups net investment in Skandia.
The GBP to USD 246 million to $486 million leg of the 750 million cross currency is used to hedge USD currency risk on the USD based assets in the Groups net investment in US operations.
There was no ineffectiveness in respect of any of the above net investment hedges during the financial year 2007: nil.
29 Fair values of financial assets and liabilities Determination of fair value All financial instruments, regardless of their IAS 39 categorisation, are initially recorded at fair value.
The fair value of a financial instrument on initial recognition is normally the transaction price, that is, the fair value of the consideration given or received.
In certain circumstances, however, the initial fair value may be based on other observable current market transactions in the same instrument, without modi cation or repackaging, or on a valuation technique whose variables include only observable data.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in active markets are based on bid prices for assets, which in certain circumstances includes using quotations from independent third parties such as brokers and pricing services, and offer prices for liabilities.
When quoted prices are not available, fair values are determined by using valuation techniques that refer as far as possible to observable market data.
These include comparison with similar instruments where market observable prices exist, discounted cash ow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
A number of factors such as bid-offer spread, credit pro le, servicing costs and model uncertainty are taken into account, as appropriate, when values are calculated using a valuation technique.
Changes in the assumptions used in such valuations could impact the reported value of such instruments.
The fair value of derivative instruments re ects the estimated amount the Group would receive or pay in an arms length transaction.
This amount is determined using quotations from independent third parties or by using standard valuation techniques.
For certain derivative instruments, fair values may be determined in whole or in part using techniques based on assumptions that are not supported by prices from current market transactions or observable market data.
In general, other than in respect of those securities that have been reclassi ed from available-for-sale to loans and receivables as described in note 31, none of the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost have a fair value signi cantly different to their carrying amounts.
Such assets and liabilities are primarily comprised of variable-rate financial assets and liabilities that reprice as interest rates change, short-term deposits or current assets.
Loans and advances Loans and advances principally comprise of variable rate financial assets and liabilities, which are re-priced when there are movements in the interest rates.
The Group has developed and applied a fair value methodology in respect of gross exposures of loans and advances that are measured at amortised cost.
The methodology incorporates the historical interest rates per product type and the projected monthly cash ows per product type.
Future forecasts for the overall probability of default PD and loss given defaults LGDs for the years from 2009 to 2011, based on the latest internal data available, is applied to the first three years projected cash ows.
Average PDs and LGDs are applied to the projected cash ows for later years.
These results are compared to both regulatory and accounting credit model values.
There are no signi cant variances in the fair value methodology results compared to the carrying values reported in these financial statements.
Page 215 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 29 Fair values of financial assets and liabilities continued Determination of fair value continued Loans and advances continued For impaired advances, the carrying value as determined from the Groups credit models is considered the best estimate of fair value.
The Group is satis ed that, after considering the internal credit models together with other assumptions and the variable interest rate exposure, the carrying value of loans and advances measured at amortised cost approximates fair value.
Investments and securities The fair values of listed investments and securities are based on bid prices.
For unlisted investments and securities, fair values are determined using valuation techniques that refer as far as possible to observable market data see above.
Investment contracts The approach to determining the fair values of investment contracts is set out in the accounting policies section for insurance and investment contract business.
Amounts owed to bank depositors The fair values of amounts owed to bank depositors corresponds with the carrying amount shown in the balance sheet, which generally re ects the amount payable on demand.
Borrowed funds The fair values of amounts included in borrowed funds are based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date where applicable, or by reference to quoted prices of similar instruments.
Other financial assets and liabilities The fair values of other financial assets and liabilities are reasonably approximated by the carrying amounts re ected in the balance sheet.
Financial instruments designated as fair value through income statement Certain items in the Groups balance sheet that would otherwise be categorised as loans and receivables under IAS 39 have been designated as fair value through income statement.
Information relating to the change in fair value of these items as it relates to credit risk is shown in the table below: Change in fair value due to change in credit risk Maximum Current exposure to financial credit risk year Cumulative At 31 December 2008 m m m Loans and advances 2,548 1 Investments and securities 6,622 9 13 Other assets 36 9,206 9 12 Change in fair value due to change in credit risk Maximum Current exposure to financial credit risk year Cumulative At 31 December 2007 m m m Loans and advances 1,768 8 1 Investments and securities 6,346 1 4 Other assets 18 8,132 9 3 Page 216 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 29 Fair values of financial assets and liabilities continued Financial instruments designated as fair value through income statement continued Certain items in the Groups balance sheet that would otherwise be categorised as financial liabilities at amortised cost under IAS 39 have been designated as fair value through income statement.
Information relating to the change in fair value of these items as it relates to credit risk is shown in the table below: Change in fair value due to change in credit risk Current Contractual Fair financial maturity value year Cumulative amount At 31 December 2008 m m m m Borrowed funds 1,460 503 565 2,002 Amounts owed to bank depositors 7,164 10 11 7,169 8,624 493 554 9,171 Change in fair value due to change in credit risk Current Contractual Fair financial maturity value year Cumulative amount At 31 December 2007 m m m m Borrowed funds 1,676 61 62 1,718 Amounts owed to bank depositors 4,002 1 1 4,022 5,678 60 61 5,740 The change in fair value due to change in credit risk shown above is determined as the amount of the change in fair value of the instrument that is not attributable to changes in market conditions that give rise to market risk.
For loans and receivables that have been designated as at fair value through the income statement, individual credit spreads are determined at inception as the difference between the benchmark interest rate and the interest rate charged to the client.
Subsequent changes in the benchmark interest rate and the credit spread give risk to changes in fair value in the financial instrument.
Loans and advances are reviewed for observable changes in credit risk, and the credit spread is adjusted at subsequent dates if there has been an observable change in credit risk relating to a particular loan or advance.
No credit derivatives are used to hedge the credit risk on any of the financial assets designated at fair value through the income statement.
The change in fair value due to credit risk of financial liabilities designated at fair value through the income statement has been determined as the difference between fair values determined using a liability curve adjusted for credit and a risk-free liability curve.
This difference is cross-checked to market related data on credit spreads, where available.
30 Analysis of movements in impairment account Movements in provisions for impairment of loans and advances are analysed as follows: Speci c Portfolio Total Speci c Portfolio Total impairment impairment impairment impairment impairment impairment m m m m m m Year ended 31 December 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 Loans and advances Balance at beginning of the year 322 130 452 277 105 382 Income statement charge 279 41 320 133 23 156 Amounts written off against the provision 215 2 217 116 116 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 25 25 30 30 Foreign exchange and other movements 4 3 1 2 2 Balance at end of the year 407 172 579 322 130 452 Page 217 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 31 Group balance sheet categories of financial instruments The analysis of assets and liabilities into their categories as fide ned in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IAS 39 is set out in the following table.
For completeness, assets and liabilities of a nonfinancial nature, or financial assets and liabilities that are speci cally excluded from the scope of IAS 39, are re ected in the nonfinancial assets and liabilities category.
Fair value through income statement Available Financial Nonfor sale Held-toliabilities financial Held-forfinancial maturity Loans and amortised assets and Total trading Designated assets investments receivables cost liabilities At 31 December 2008 m m m m m m m m Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 5,882 5,882 Mandatory reserve deposits with Central Banks 734 734 Property, plant and equipment 682 682 Investment property 1,478 1,478 Deferred tax assets 1,590 1,590 Investment in associated undertakings and joint ventures 111 111 Deferred acquisition costs 3,199 3,199 Reinsurers share of long-term business policyholder liabilities 1,148 37 1,111 Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities 115 115 Deposits held with reinsurers 164 121 43 Loans and advances 35,745 760 2,548 32,437 Investments and securities 83,522 627 67,703 11,732 1,494 1,966 Current tax receivable 118 118 Client indebtedness for acceptances 220 220 Other assets 3,137 73 596 2,145 323 Derivative financial instruments assets 4,633 4,633 Cash and cash equivalents 2,862 2,862 Non-current assets held-for-sale 7 7 145,347 6,093 70,968 11,732 1,494 40,224 14,836 Liabilities Long-term business policyholder liabilities 81,269 53,211 28,058 General insurance liabilities 344 344 Third party interest in consolidation of funds 2,591 2,591 Borrowed funds 2,295 1,460 835 Provisions 477 477 Deferred revenue 598 598 Deferred tax liabilities 1,452 1,452 Current tax payable 219 219 Other liabilities 3,733 271 531 1,788 1,143 Liabilities under acceptances 220 220 Amounts owed to bank depositors 38,171 1,431 7,164 29,576 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 4,395 4,395 Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 6 6 135,770 6,097 64,957 32,199 32,517 Page 218 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 31 Group balance sheet categories of financial instruments continued In accordance with the provisions of the October 2008 amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement in respect of reclassi cations of financial assets, the Companys US subsidiary, US Life, has elected to reclassify 152 securities from the available for sale category to the loans and receivables category on the basis that the securities were no longer regarded as being traded in an active market.
The reclassi cations were made as at 1 July 2008 in accordance with the transitional provisions in the amendment.
The book values and fair values of the reclassi ed securities as at 1 July 2008 were 1,119 million and 926 million respectively.
These securities had an aggregate carrying value and aggregate fair value as at 31 December 2008 of 1,262 million and 972 million respectively.
The amount of accumulated unrealised losses on the reclassi ed securities already recognised in equity as at the date of reclassi cation was 263 million 31 December 2007: 59 million.
The amount of unrealised losses that would have been recognised in equity had the reclassi cation not taken place would have been 284 million at 31 December 2008.
The changes in values between 1 July 2008 and 31 December 2008 are largely attributable to changes in the exchange rate between the USD and GBP.
The overall income statement impact of the reclassi cations is nil, as the revised amortised effective interest on the reclassi ed securities is directly offset by the amortisation of the previously recognised unrealised losses to the income statement using the same amortisation pattern.
At 1 July 2008, the effective rates of interest for the reclassi ed securities ranged from 4.39 percent to 15.23 percent and at that point the Group expected to recover 2.1 billion based on exchange rate at 1 July 2008 in projected cash ows over the remaining lives of the reclassi ed securities.
Fair value through income statement Available Financial Nonfor sale Held-toliabilities financial Held-forfinancial maturity Loans and amortised assets and Total trading Designated assets investments receivables cost liabilities At 31 December 2007 m m m m m m m m Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 5,459 5,459 Mandatory reserve deposits with Central Banks 615 615 Property, plant and equipment 608 608 Investment property 1,479 1,479 Deferred tax assets 683 683 Investment in associated undertakings and joint ventures 81 81 Deferred acquisition costs 2,253 2,253 Reinsurers share of long-term business policyholder liabilities 1,394 638 16 740 Deposits held with reinsurers 213 184 29 Loans and advances 30,687 1,912 1,768 27,007 Investments and securities 89,627 1,445 76,828 10,274 650 430 Current tax receivable 83 83 Client indebtedness for acceptances 165 165 Other assets 2,774 273 659 1,459 383 Derivative financial instruments assets 1,527 1,527 Cash and cash equivalents 3,469 1 3,468 Non-current assets held-for-sale 1,623 1,623 142,740 5,157 80,077 10,275 650 33,024 13,557 Liabilities Long-term business policyholder liabilities 84,251 53,745 30,506 Third party interests in consolidation of funds 3,547 3,547 Borrowed funds 2,353 1,676 677 Provisions 499 499 Deferred revenue 462 462 Deferred tax liabilities 1,413 1,413 Current tax payable 320 320 Other liabilities 6,180 1,955 435 3,184 606 Liabilities under acceptances 165 165 Amounts owed to bank depositors 31,817 1,187 4,002 26,628 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1,716 1,716 Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 420 420 133,143 4,858 63,405 30,489 34,391 Page 219 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 32 Discontinued operations, assets and liabilities held-for-sale Non-current assets held-for-sale At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Loans and advances 994 Investments and securities 359 Other assets 7 238 Cash and cash equivalents 32 7 1,623 Non-current liabilities held-for-sale At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 General insurance liabilities 305 Other liabilities 6 115 6 420 Europe vehicle finance business Skandias Nordic vehicle finance operation, SkandiaBanken Bil nans, was sold to DnB NOR during the year.
The assets and liabilities were classed as held-for-sale as at 31 December 2007.
South Africa general insurance business At 31 December 2007 Mutual & Federal was presented as a non-current asset held-for-sale on the basis that the business was being actively marketed for sale.
On 27 November 2008, the Group announced the termination of the sales process.
As a result of the sales termination, Mutual & Federal is no longer heldforsale and is therefore consolidated on a linebyline basis in the balance sheet and presented within continuing operations in the income statement.
In accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations the income statement for the year ended 2007 has been restated to present the results of Mutual & Federal within continuing operations.
The balance sheet classi cation at 31 December 2007 as Non-current assets and Non-current liabilities held for sale has not been restated, also in accordance with IFRS 5.
33 Borrowed funds At At 31 December 31 December m m Notes 2008 2007 Senior debt securities and term loans 33 i 557 461 Mortgage backed securities 33 ii 104 103 Subordinated debt securities 33 iii 1,634 1,789 Borrowed funds 2,295 2,353 i Senior debt securities and term loans At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 1 Floating rate notes 85 151 2 Fixed rate notes 152 44 3 Revolving credit facility 294 161 Term loan and other loans 26 26 Investment fund borrowings 79 Total senior debt securities and term loan 557 461 Page 220 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 33 Borrowed funds continued i Senior debt securities and term loans continued The maturities of the senior debt securities and term loans are as follows: Greater than 1 year and Less than less than Greater than 1 year 5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2008 m m m m Floating rate notes 16 69 85 Fixed rate notes 96 56 152 Revolving credit facility 294 294 Term loans and other loans 26 26 Investment fund borrowings Total senior debt securities and term loan 138 419 557 At 31 December 2007 Floating rate notes 75 76 151 Fixed rate notes 29 15 44 Revolving credit facility 161 161 Term loans and other loans 17 9 26 Investment fund borrowings 79 79 Total senior debt securities and term loan 96 274 91 461 Senior debt securities and term loan comprise: 1 Floating rate notes 7 million note repayable in December 2010, with holders having the option to elect for early redemption every 6 months with coupon referenced against 6 month LIBOR less 0.50 percent.
US$150 million repayable September 2014 at 3 month LIBOR plus 0.63 percent repaid.
US$50 million repayable September 2011 at 3 month LIBOR plus 0.50 percent.
US$10 million repayable September 2009 at 3 month LIBOR plus 0.35 percent.
SEK100 million repayable March 2009 at 3 month STIBOR plus 0.20 percent.
22 million repayable January 2010 at 3 month EURIBOR plus 0.35 percent.
SEK50 million repayable March 2010 at 3 month STIBOR plus 0.38 percent.
2 Fixed rate notes 30 million Euro bond repayable July 2010, capital and interest swapped into xed rate US Dollars at 5.28 percent.
10 million Euro bond repayable December 2010, capital and interest swapped into oating rate US Dollars at 3 month LIBOR plus 0.95 percent.
20 million Euro bond repayable August 2013, capital and interest swapped into oating rate US Dollars at 3 month LIBOR plus 1.30 percent.
100 million Euro bond repayable December 2009 at 3.46 percent.
The total fair value of the swap derivatives associated with the Senior notes is 11 million 2007: 8 million.
These are recognised as assets and are included within note 27.
3 Revolving credit facility The Group has a 1,250 million five-year multi-currency revolving credit facility, which had an original maturity date of September 2010.
On 18 August 2007 syndicate banks agreed to extend the maturity date of 1,232 million of the facility until September 2012.
At 31 December 2008 826 million 2007: 413 million of this facility was utilised, 294 million 2007: 161 million in the form of drawn debt and 532 million 2007: 252 million in the form of irrevocable letters of credit.
The Group has a SEK1,000 million revolving credit facility, which has a maturity date of 2 July 2009.
At 31 December 2008 this facility was undrawn.
ii Mortgage backed securities At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 1 R291 million notes class A1 repayable 18 November 2039 11.467 percent 22 21 1 R1.4 billion notes class A2A repayable 18 November 2039 11.817 percent 73 73 1 R98 million notes class B note repayable 18 November 2039 12.067 percent 5 5 1 R76 million notes class C note repayable 18 November 2039 13.317 percent 4 4 104 103 1 Issued on 10 December 2007 by the Groups South African banking business and are callable on 18 November 2012.
Page 221 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 33 Borrowed funds continued iii Subordinated debt securities At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Banking 1 US$18 million repayable 31 August 2009 6 month LIBOR less 1.5% 12 9 2 R1.5 billion repayable 24 April 2016 7.85% 108 103 3 R1.8 billion repayable 20 September 2018 9.84% 135 135 4 R515 million repayable on 4 December 2008 13.5% Repaid 39 5 R500 million repayable on 30 December 2010 8.38% 36 34 6 R650 million repayable 8 February 2017 9.03% 49 47 7 R1.7 billion repayable 8 February 2019 8.9% 125 123 8 R2.0 billion repayable 6 July 2022 3 month JIBAR plus 0.47% 150 151 9 R500 million repayable 15 August 2012 3 month JIBAR plus 0.45% 37 37 10 R1.0 billion repayable 17 September 2015 10.54% 77 77 11 R500 million repayable 14 December 2017 3 month JIBAR plus 0.70% 37 37 12 R120 million repayable 14 December 2017 10.38% 9 9 13 R487 million repayable 20 November 2018 15.05% 40 14 R1,265 million repayable 20 November 2018 JIBAR plus 4.75% 94 15 R300 million repayable on 4 December 2013 JIBAR 2.5% 11 920 801 Other 16 R3.0 billion repayable 27 October 2020 8.9% 219 220 17 300 million repayable 21 January 2016 5.0% 239 291 18 R250 million preference shares repayable 9 June 2011 18 18 19 750 million repayable 18 January 2017 4.5% 303 519 779 1,048 Less: banking subordinated debt securities held by other Group companies 65 60 Total subordinated liabilities 1,634 1,789 The subordinated notes rank behind the claims against the Group depositors and other unsecured, unsubordinated creditors.
None of the Groups subordinated notes are secured.
1 This instrument is matched either by advances to clients or covered against exchange rate uctuations.
2 Unsecured secondary callable note was issued 24 April 2005 with a call date of 24 April 2011.
3 Unsecured secondary callable note was issued 20 September 2006 at R1.5 billion with a call date of 20 September 2013.
On 18 May 2007 an additional R0.3 billion was issued.
4 Unsecured callable Bonds issued 10 June 2002.
5 Unsecured callable Bonds issued 30 March 2006.
6 Unsecured secondary callable note was issued 8 February 2007 with a call date of 8 February 2012.
7 Unsecured secondary callable note was issued 8 February 2007 at R1.0 billion.
On 19 March 2007 an additional R0.7 billion was issued.
8 Unsecured secondary capital callable note issued 6 July 2007 and has a call date of 6 July 2017.
9 This bond issued on 15 August 2007 is an unsecured secondary capital callable oating rate note with a call date 15 August 2012.
10 This bond issued on 17 September 2007 is an unsecured xed rate note with a term of 13 years non-call 8.
11 This bond issued on 14 December 2007 is a 10 year non-call 5 oating rate note.
After its call date on 14 December 2012 its terms become JIBAR plus 1.70 percent until maturity.
12 This bond issued on 14 December 2007 is a 10 year non-call 5 xed rate note.
After its call date its terms become oating 3 month JIBAR plus initial margin over mid swaps plus 1.0 percent until maturity.
13 This bond issued on 20 May 2008 is a perpetual non-call 10 year xed rate note with a call date on 20 November 2018.
14 This bond issued on 20 May 2008 is a perpetual non-call 10 year oating rate note with a call date of 20 November 2018.
15 This bond issued on 4 December 2008 is a oating rate note with a call date of 4 December 2013.
16 These bonds have a maturity date of 27 October 2020 and pay a coupon of 8.92 percent to 27 October 2015 and 3 month JIBAR plus 1.59 percent thereafter.
The Group has the option to repay the bonds at par on 27 October 2015 and at 3 monthly intervals thereafter.
17 These bonds, issued on 20 January 2006, have a maturity date of 21 January 2016 and pay a coupon of 5.0 percent to 21 January 2011 and 6 month LIBOR plus 1.13 percent thereafter.
The coupon on the bonds was swapped into oating rate of 6 month STIBOR plus 0.50 percent.
The Group has the option to repay the bonds at par on 21 January 2011 and at 6 monthly intervals thereafter.
18 These preference shares are redeemable on 9 June 2011 and pay a variable cumulative coupon of 61.0 percent of the Prime Rate as quoted by Nedbank Limited.
The Group has the option to redeem the shares at par at any time before the final redemption date but after giving an agreed period of notice.
19 This bond, issued on 16 January 2007, has a maturity date of 18 January 2017 and pays a coupon of 4.5 percent to 17 January 2012 and 6 month EURIBOR plus 0.96 percent thereafter.
The principal and coupon on the bond were swapped equally into Sterling and US Dollars with coupons of 6 month LIBOR plus 0.34 percent and 6 month US LIBOR plus 0.31 percent respectively.
The Group has the option to repay the bonds at par on 17 January 2012 and at 6 monthly intervals thereafter.
Page 222 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 34 Provisions At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Surplus property 23 29 Client compensation 27 19 Warranties on sale of business 111 87 Liability for long service leave 38 34 Provision for donations 80 82 Litigation claims 36 64 Other provisions 165 183 480 498 Post employment bene ts 3 1 Total 477 499 Client Warranties Liability for Surplus compenon sale of long service Provision for Litigation property sation business leave donations claims Other Total Year ended 31 December 2008 m m m m m m m m Balance at beginning of the year 29 19 87 34 82 64 183 498 Unused amounts reversed 1 5 5 40 51 Unwind of discount 1 1 Charge to income statement 8 22 4 37 20 91 Utilised during the year 7 14 3 1 2 74 24 123 Foreign exchange and other movements 1 19 10 1 9 26 64 Balance at end of the year 23 27 111 38 80 36 165 480 2008 provisions in relation to surplus property amounted to 23 million 2007: 29 million.
These relate to the onerous costs of vacant properties leased by the Group.
Provisions in relation to client compensation were 27 million 2007: 19 million, primarily relating to possible misselling of guarantee contracts in Nordic.
Provisions in relation to warranties on the sale of businesses amounted to 111 million 2007: 87 million.
These principally relate to the sale of American Skandia to Prudential Financial, recognised by the Group on acquisition of Skandia in 2006.
The liability for long service leave of 38 million 2007: 34 million relates to provision for staff payments for long serving employees.
The provision for donations is held by OMSA.
It relates to the payment of charitable donations in future periods to which the Group is committed, out of the funds made available on the closure of the Groups unclaimed shares trusts, which were set up as part of the demutualisation in 1999 and closed in 2006.
At 31 December 2008 provisions in relation to litigation claims amounted to 36 million 2007: 64 million.
During the year 74 million of the provision was utilised, principally in respect of payments made in connection with the outcome of the Skandia Liv arbitration note 45.
The balance of the provision primarily relates to future amounts payable to Skandia Liv in connection with the arbitration ruling.
Where material, provisions are discounted at discount rates speci c to the risks inherent in the liability.
The timing and final amounts of payments in respect of some of the provisions, particularly those in respect of litigation claims and similar actions against the Group, are uncertain and could result in adjustments to the amounts recorded.
Of the provisions recorded above, 271 million 2007: 420 million is estimated to be payable after more than one year.
Client Warranties Liability for Surplus compenon sale of long service Provision for Litigation property sation business leave donations claims Other Total Year ended 31 December 2007 m m m m m m m m Balance at beginning of the year 41 8 113 30 115 71 151 529 Unused amounts reversed 3 1 11 6 21 Unwind of discount 2 2 Charge to income statement 20 4 23 47 Utilised during the year 8 8 15 2 33 66 Foreign exchange and other movements 3 2 1 9 7 Balance at end of the year 29 19 87 34 82 64 183 498 Page 223 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 35 Deferred revenue Long-term Asset General business management insurance Total Year ended 31 December 2008 m m m m Balance at beginning of the year 350 112 462 Fees and commission income deferred 120 32 152 Amortisation 11 37 48 Foreign exchange and other movements 30 6 2 26 Transfer from assets held for sale 6 6 Balance at end of the year 489 101 8 598 Long-term Asset General business management insurance Total Year ended 31 December 2007 m m m m Balance at beginning of the year 201 82 6 289 Fees and commission income deferred 149 52 201 Amortisation 10 31 41 Foreign exchange and other movements 10 9 19 Transfer from assets held for sale 6 6 Balance at end of the year 350 112 462 36 Other liabilities At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Amounts payable on direct insurance business Funds held under reinsurance business ceded 15 325 Amounts owed to policyholders 535 708 Amounts owed to intermediaries 66 54 Other direct insurance operation creditors 46 3 Accounts payable on reinsurance business 64 29 Accruals and deferred income 749 713 Share-based payments cash-settled scheme liabilities 15 26 Short trading securities and spot positions 267 1,952 Trade creditors 312 278 Outstanding settlements 592 1,078 Total securities sold under agreements to repurchase 299 304 Other liabilities 773 710 3,733 6,180 Included in the amounts shown above are 3,094 million 2007: 4,865 million that are regarded as current, the remainder as non-current.
37 Amounts owed to bank depositors At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Current accounts 7,916 7,303 Savings deposits 1,043 1,024 Other deposits and loan accounts Call and term deposits 14,035 10,568 Fixed deposits 1,894 1,792 Cash management deposits 2,635 3,081 Other 2,746 3,268 Negotiable certi cates of deposit 6,369 4,129 Deposits received under repurchase agreements 1,533 652 38,171 31,817 Page 224 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 37 Amounts owed to bank depositors continued A contractual maturity analysis of the amounts owed to bank depositors is shown in the following table: More than Balance 3 months Between sheet Less than less than 1 and More than amount 3 months 1 year 5 years 5 years Total Year ended 31 December 2008 m m m m m m Amounts owed to bank depositors Current accounts 7,916 7,756 35 7,791 Savings deposits 1,043 1,043 1,043 Other deposits and loan accounts 21,310 17,452 3,105 1,104 83 21,744 Negotiable certi cates of deposit 6,369 2,287 4,392 373 7,052 Deposits received under repurchase agreements 1,533 318 318 Amounts owed to bank depositors 38,171 28,856 7,532 1,477 83 37,948 More than Balance 3 months Between sheet Less than less than 1 and More than amount 3 months 1 year 5 years 5 years Total Year ended 31 December 2007 m m m m m m Amounts owed to bank depositors Current accounts 7,303 7,267 19 17 7,303 Savings deposits 1,024 1,024 1,024 Other deposits and loan accounts 18,709 15,765 2,389 861 53 19,068 Negotiable certi cates of deposit 4,129 1,648 2,555 325 4,528 Deposits received under repurchase agreements 652 652 652 Amounts owed to bank depositors 31,817 26,356 4,963 1,203 53 32,575 38 Equity i Share capital At At 31 December 31 December m m Authorised and issued share capital 2008 2007 Authorised ordinary shares of 10p each 750 750 Issued ordinary shares of 10p each 552 551 ii Perpetual preferred callable securities In addition to the Groups senior and subordinated debt, the Group has issued two separate tranches of perpetual preferred callable securities with a total carrying value of 688 million 2007: 688 million as at 31 December 2008.
In accordance with IFRS accounting standards these instruments are classi ed as equity and disclosed within equity shareholders funds as shown on page 143.
350 million perpetual preferred callable securities These are unsecured and subordinated to the claims of senior creditors and the holders of any priority preference shares.
For an initial period to 24 March 2020 interest is payable at a xed rate of 6.4 percent per annum annually in arrears.
From 24 March 2020 interest is reset semi-annually at 2.2 percent per annum above the Sterling inter-bank offer rate for six month Sterling deposits, and is payable semi-annually in arrears.
Coupon payments may be deferred at the Groups discretion.
The perpetual preferred callable securities are redeemable at the discretion of the Group at their principal amount from 24 March 2020.
500 million perpetual preferred callable securities Step-up Option B Undated Subordinated Notes issued under a Global Note Programme.
These are unsecured and subordinated to the claims of senior creditors and the holders of any priority preference shares.
For an initial period to 4 November 2015 the notes pay interest at a xed rate of 5.0 percent per annum annually in arrears.
After this date the interest is reset semi-annually at 2.63 percent per annum above six month EURIBOR and is payable semi-annually in arrears.
The perpetual preferred callable securities are redeemable at the discretion of the Group at their principal amount from 4 November 2015. iii Share buy back programme As at 31 December 2008 there have been 161,559,272 shares 2007: 74,153,87 shares repurchased on the LSE at an average price paid of 149.3p 2007: 165.7p and 77,875,616 shares 2007: 30,947,472 shares repurchased on the JSE at an average price paid of Rand 20.23 2007: Rand 23.14 in accordance with the share buyback programme announced on 3 October 2007.
The shares repurchased have not been cancelled and are held by the Company as treasury shares.
Page 225 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 39 Minority interests balance sheet i Ordinary shares At At 31 December 31 December m m Reconciliation of movements in minority interests 2008 2007 Balance at beginning of the year 933 848 Minority interests share of pro t 188 224 Minority interests share of dividends paid 111 115 Net acquisition of interests 25 1 Foreign exchange and other movements 112 25 Balance at end of the year 1,147 933 ii Preferred securities At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 1 R2,000 million non-cumulative preference shares 140 140 2 R792 million non-cumulative preference shares 71 71 3 R300 million non-cumulative preference shares 12 22 4 US$750 million cumulative preferred securities 458 458 5 R364 million non-cumulative preference shares 25 25 706 716 Unamortised issue costs 13 13 Total in issue at 31 December 693 703 Preferred securities are held at historic value of consideration received less unamortised issue costs.
1 200 million R10 preference shares issued by Nedbank Limited Nedbank, the Groups banking subsidiary.
These shares are non-redeemable and non-cumulative and pay a cash dividend equivalent to 75 percent of the prime overdraft interest rate of Nedbank.
Preference shareholders are only entitled to vote during periods when a dividend or any part of it remains unpaid after the due date for payment or when resolutions are proposed that directly affect any rights attaching to the shares or the rights of the holders.
Preference shareholders will be entitled to receive their dividends in priority to any payment of dividends made in respect of any other class of Nedbanks shares.
2 77.3 million R10 preference shares issued at R10.68 per share by Nedbank on the same terms as the securities described in 1 above.
3 30 million R10 preference shares issued on 22 June 2006 by Imperial Bank Limited a subsidiary of Nedbank Limited, on the same terms as the securities described in 1 above.
4 US$750 million Guaranteed Cumulative Perpetual Preference Securities issued on 19 May 2003 by Old Mutual Capital Funding L. P. a subsidiary of the Group.
Subject to certain limitations, holders of these securities are entitled to receive preferential cash distributions at a xed rate of 8.0 percent per annum payable in arrears on a quarterly basis.
The Group may defer payment of distributions at its sole discretion, but such an act may restrict Old Mutual plc from paying dividends on its ordinary shares for a period of 12 months.
Arrears of distributions are payable quarterly cumulatively only on redemption of the securities or at the Groups option.
The securities are perpetual, but may be redeemed at the discretion of the Group from 22 December 2008.
The costs of issue have been amortised over the period to 22 December 2008.
5 35 million R10 preference shares issued on 16 April 2007 at R10.27 per share by Nedbank on the same terms as the securities described in 1 above.
Page 226 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 40 Post employment bene ts The Group operates a number of pension schemes around the world.
These schemes have been designed and are administered in accordance with local conditions and practices in the countries concerned and include both fide ned contribution and fide ned bene t schemes.
The assets of these schemes are held in separate trustee administered funds.
Pension costs and contributions relating to fide ned bene t schemes are assessed in accordance with the advice of quali ed actuaries.
Actuarial advice con rms that the current level of contributions payable to each pension scheme, together with existing assets, are adequate to secure members bene ts over the remaining service lives of participating employees.
The schemes are reviewed at least on a triennial basis or in accordance with local practice and regulations.
In the intervening years the actuary reviews the continuing appropriateness of the assumptions applied.
The actuarial assumptions used to calculate the projected bene t obligations of the Groups pension schemes vary according to the economic conditions of the countries in which they operate.
i Liability for fide ned bene t obligations Other post-retirement Pension plans bene t schemes m m m m Year to 31 December 2008 2007 2008 2007 Changes in projected bene t obligation Projected bene t obligation at beginning of the year 675 758 128 133 Bene ts earned during the year 6 8 4 4 Interest cost on bene t obligation 41 38 10 10 Actuarial gain loss 3 47 3 Bene ts paid 36 34 2 5 Foreign exchange and other movements 89 48 18 11 Projected bene t obligation at end of the year 778 675 158 128 Change in plan assets Plan assets at fair value at beginning of the year 855 836 134 139 Actual return on plan assets 18 82 8 16 Company contributions 13 14 Employee contributions 1 1 Bene ts paid 34 33 2 4 Foreign exchange and other movements 11 45 20 17 Plan assets at fair value at end of the year 828 855 160 134 Net asset liability recognised in balance sheet Funded status of plan 50 180 2 6 Unrecognised assets 18 84 2 Other amounts recognised in balance sheet 2 3 Unrecognised actuarial gains 10 83 16 21 Net amount recognised in balance sheet 22 13 18 18 ii Credit expense recognised in the income statement Other post-retirement Pension plans bene t schemes m m m m Year to 31 December 2008 2007 2008 2007 Current service costs 9 7 3 4 Interest cost 31 28 10 10 Expected return on plan assets 51 43 10 10 Net actuarial gains losses recognised in the year 15 5 Losses gains on curtailment 2 Total included in staff costs 24 3 3 4 Page 227 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 40 Post employment bene ts continued iii Principal actuarial assumptions Year to Year to 31 December 31 December % % 2008 2007 UK and Guernsey pension schemes Discount rate 5.5-5.8 5.0 Expected return on plan assets: Equities 6.7-8.8 7.5-8.0 Debt 3.7-5.8 4.5-5.5 Property 6.0 Cash 3.8-5.5 3.0-5.5 Annuities and other 5.5-8.8 5.0-8.0 Future salary increases 4.1-4.9 4.65 Pensions in payment and deferred pensions in ation 2.8-3.1 3.0-4.0 Price in ation 2.8-3.1 3.25-3.4 Europe pension schemes Discount rate 3.5 4.5 Expected return on plan assets: Equities 5.1 6.7 Debt 2.1 3.7 Property 5.1 5.5 Annuities and other 5.1 5.5 Future salary increases 3.3 3.3 Pensions in payment and deferred pensions in ation 2.0 2.0 Price in ation 2.0 2.0 African pension schemes Discount rate 5.8-9.0 5.0-9.0 Expected return on plan assets: Equities 8.8-11.5 4.5-9.3 Debt 5.8-9.0 8.0-9.0 Property 9.5 9.0 Cash 3.8-6.5 2.0-6.0 Annuities and other 8.8-11.5 4.5-9.3 Future salary increases 6.25 6.0 Pensions in payment and deferred pensions in ation 3.0-3.8 4.5 Price in ation 3.0-6.0 2.6-6.0 African other post retirement schemes Discount rate 7.3-9.0 8.0-8.5 Expected return on plan assets 7.3-8.5 8.0-8.5 Future salary increases 5.3-9.0 6.5-8.5 Price in ation 5.3-9.0 6.5-8.5 Health cost in ation 5.3-9.0 6.3-8.5 Page 228 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 40 Post employment bene ts continued iv Plan asset allocation Other post-retirement Pension plans bene t schemes % % % % At 31 December 2008 2007 2008 2007 Equity securities 38.4 45.0 13.4 13.2 Debt securities 37.4 33.7 6.2 0.7 Property 7 4.5 Cash 1 2.4 21.6 31.1 Annuities and other 16.2 14.4 58.8 55.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Pension and other retirement bene t plan assets include ordinary shares issued by the Company with a fair value of 0.1 million 2007: 0.4 million.
v Summary of Group pension plans m m m m m Year to 31 December 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Present value of fide ned bene t obligations 778 675 758 497 430 Fair value of plan assets 828 855 836 508 428 Surplus 50 180 78 11 2 Experience losses arising on fide ned bene t plan liabilities: Amount 2 5 12 16 As a percentage of plan liabilities 0.7% 1.6% 3.2% Experience gains arising on fide ned bene t plan assets: Amount 69 39 50 40 1 As a percentage of plan assets -8.3% 4.3% 6.0% 7.7% 0.2% 41 Share-based payments i Share-based payment arrangements During the year ended 31 December 2008, the Group had the following share-based payment arrangements: Description of award Contractual life V esting conditions Restricted Dividend Service Performance Scheme shares Options entitlement Other Years years measure Other 2 1 1 UK Sharesave Scheme 3 - 5 3 & 5 2 2 UK Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plan 6 3 Target growth in EPS UK Restricted Share Plan 3-5 3 & 5 Old Mutual plc Share Reward Plan Up to 3 Share options 10 years Old Mutual plc Share Reward Plan Not less Restricted Shares than 3 years Old Mutual plc Performance Share plan Up to Share Options 10 years 3 Old Mutual plc Performance Share plan Not less Target Restricted Shares than growth 3 years in EPS and ROE Page 229 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 41 Share-based payments continued i Share-based payment arrangements continued Description of award Contractual life V esting conditions Restricted Dividend Service Performance Scheme shares Options entitlement Other Years years measure Other 2 1 1 Old Mutual plc 2008 Sharesave Plan 3 -5 3 & 5 2 2 South Africa Share Option and Deferred 6 3 Target Delivery Plan growth in EPS South Africa Restricted Share Plan 5 3 3 OMSA Broad-based Employee Scheme 5 4 OMSA Senior Black Management Scheme 4-6 4, 5 & 6 OMSA Management Scheme 3-6 3 Target growth 5 in EPS 6 OMSA Black Business Partners Scheme 10 7 OMSA Client & Distributor Scheme 10 7 OMSA Community Scheme 10 Old Mutual Namibia Management Scheme 3-6 3 4 Old Mutual Namibia Senior 4-6 4, 5 & 6 Black Management Scheme 6 Old Mutual Namibia Broad-based 5 Employee Scheme 6 Old Mutual Namibia Education Scheme 10 6 Old Mutual Namibia Distributor Scheme 10 6 Old Mutual Namibia Community 10 Partners Scheme 6 Old Mutual Namibia Black Business 10 Partners Scheme 6 Old Mutual Namibia Discretionary Scheme 10 8 Nedcor Group 1994 Share Option Scheme 6 3 & 4 Target growth in headline earnings Nedbank Group 2005 Share Option Scheme 5 3 Page 230 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 41 Share-based payments continued i Share-based payment arrangements continued Description of award Contractual life V esting conditions Restricted Dividend Service Performance 1 Scheme shares Options entitlement Other Years years measure Other 9 10 Nedbank Group 2005 5 3 Various Matched Share Scheme 11 Nedbank Eyethu Non-Executive 6 6 Directors Scheme 4 Nedbank Eyethu Black Executive Scheme 7 4, 5 & 6 4 Nedbank Eyethu Black Management Scheme 7 4, 5 & 6 3 Nedbank Eyethu Broad-based 5 Employee Scheme 6,11 Nedbank Eyethu Black Business 10 Partner Scheme 12 13 Nedbank Eyethu Retail Scheme 3 14 Nedbank Eyethu Corporate Scheme 6 4 Nedbank Namibia Omu ma Black 7 4, 5 & 6 Management Scheme 6 Nedbank Namibia Omu ma Broad-based 5 Employee Scheme 6,11 Nedbank Namibia Omu ma Black Business 10 Partner Scheme 6,11 Nedbank Namibia Omu ma Af nity 10 Group Scheme 6,11 Nedbank Namibia Omu ma Education Scheme 10 15 Nedbank UK Long-term Incentive Plan 4 3 Target growth in average RoE Mutual & Federal Share Option Scheme 6 3 4 Mutual & Federal Senior Black 7 4, 5 & 6 Management Scheme Mutual & Federal Management 6 3 Incentive Scheme 7 Mutual & Federal Distributor Scheme Inde nite 7 Mutual & Federal Community Scheme Inde nite 6 Mutual & Federal Black Business 10 Partners Scheme Page 231 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 41 Share-based payments continued i Share-based payment arrangements continued Description of award Contractual life V esting conditions Restricted Dividend Service Performance 1 Scheme shares Options entitlement Other Years years measure Other 6 Mutual & Federal Broad-based 5 Employee Scheme Mutual & Federal Namibia 6 3 Share Option Scheme Mutual & Federal Namibia Senior Black 4 Management Scheme 7 4, 5 & 6 7 Mutual & Federal Namibia Community Scheme Inde nite 6 Mutual & Federal Namibia Black Business 10 Partners Scheme Mutual & Federal Namibia Management 6 3 Incentive Scheme 6 Mutual & Federal Namibia Broad-based 5 Employee Scheme 6 Mutual & Federal Discretionary Scheme 10 1 All share-based payment arrangements are equity settled with the exception of the South Africa Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plan and the South Africa Restricted Share Plan which are cash-settled.
UK schemes relate to shares in Old Mutual plc listed on the London Stock Exchange.
South Africa, OMSA and Old Mutual schemes relate to shares in Old Mutual plc listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange JSE.
Nedcor and Nedbank schemes relate to shares in Nedbank Group Ltd listed on the JSE.
Mutual & Federal schemes relate to shares in Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd listed on the JSE.
Details of schemes related to US Asset Management are provided in note 41 v. 2 Scheme is linked to a savings plan.
3 Earlier of five years or participant being entitled to any other award under any other share incentive scheme of the Company.
4 One-third of the instruments granted become unrestricted after each of these time periods.
5 Performance target applies to options only.
6 Expiry of the contractual life.
7 Minimum period of ten years.
8 One half of the instruments granted become unrestricted after each of these time periods.
9 Matching contributions made by the participant of an amount not more than 50 percent of their after-tax bonus.
10 Where performance targets are not met, 50 percent of the instruments granted will become unrestricted.
11 No dealing in these instruments during the notional funding period.
12 For every three shares acquired, participants qualify for an additional bonus share.
13 Participant holds a Nedbank Group Ltd account as their primary account for the contractual life of the instrument.
14 Participant uses Nedbank Group Ltd as their primary banker for contractual life of the instrument.
Nedbank has first right of refusal over all banking requirements.
15 Share appreciation rights SAR scheme, where Nedbank will settle the difference between the current market price and the exercise price in cash, when the employee decides to exercise the SAR.
ii Reconciliation of movements in options The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options is as follows: Weighted Weighted Options over shares in Old Mutual plc London Stock Exchange Number of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price Year ended 31 December 2008 2008 2007 2007 Outstanding at beginning of the year 30,268,067 1.24 28,763,896 1.04 Granted during the year 17,480,275 1.07 11,642,305 1.51 Forfeited during the year 7,440,893 1.33 873,287 1.39 Exercised during the year 6,191,349 0.86 9,047,035 0.92 Expired during the year 894,078 1.22 217,812 1.57 Outstanding at end of the year 33,222,022 1.20 30,268,067 1.24 Exercisable at 31 December 9,765,796 1.07 11,700,076 0.93 The options outstanding at 31 December 2008 have an exercise price in the range of 0.60 to 1.99 2007: 0.60 to 1.99 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.2 years 2007: 3 years.
The weighted average share price at date of exercise for options exercised during the year was 1.08 2007: 1.68.
Page 232 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 41 Share-based payments continued ii Reconciliation of movements in options continued Weighted Weighted Options over shares in Old Mutual plc Johannesburg Stock Exchange Number of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price Year ended 31 December 2008 2008 2007 2007 Outstanding at beginning of the year 33,704,154 R18.15 37,090,128 R15.47 Granted during the year 15,011,301 R18.31 7,565,967 R23.28 Forfeited during the year 3,758,982 R20.07 688,282 R14.45 Exercised during the year 2,282,921 R14.07 10,075,116 R12.41 Expired during the year 50,000 R15.15 188,543 R17.90 Outstanding at end of the year 42,623,552 R18.30 33,704,154 R18.15 Exercisable at 31 December 14,441,080 R14.28 16,199,844 R14.08 The options outstanding at 31 December 2008 have an exercise price in the range of R10.80 to R24.78 2007: R10.80 to R24.78 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.7 years 2007: 3.5 years.
The weighted average share price at date of exercise for options exercised during the year was R18.14 2007: R24.35.
Weighted Weighted Options over shares in Nedbank Group Ltd Number of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price Year ended 31 December 2008 2008 2007 2007 Outstanding at beginning of the year 44,497,984 R119.05 42,641,399 R108.04 Granted during the year 2,152,253 R110.84 8,101,157 R141.14 Forfeited during the year 2,051,134 R114.27 2,591,584 R88.30 Exercised during the year 2,089,408 R68.49 3,591,323 R80.82 Expired during the year 1,385,621 R113.69 61,665 R74.81 Outstanding at end of the year 41,124,074 R121.61 44,497,984 R86.94 Exercisable at 31 December 5,240,727 R73.28 2,197,789 R93.52 The options outstanding at 31 December 2008 have an exercise price in the range of R78 to R282.58 2007: R45 to R282.58 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.6 years 2007: 2.9 years.
The weighted average share price at date of exercise for options exercised during the year was R104.26 2007: R143.43.
Weighted Weighted Options over shares in Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd Number of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price Year ended 31 December 2008 2008 2007 2007 Outstanding at beginning of the year 6,420,700 R14.49 7,234,000 R18.82 Granted during the year 1,595,020 R22.23 317,700 R26.04 Forfeited during the year 793,580 R17.93 305,500 R19.34 Exercised during the year 1,712,050 R9.03 825,500 R8.18 Expired during the year 218,930 R19.89 Outstanding at end of the year 5,291,160 R17.33 6,420,700 R14.49 Exercisable at 31 December 2,248,450 R12.03 1,206,900 R8.55 The options outstanding at 31 December 2008 have an exercise price in the range of R1.50 to R27.98 2007: R3.50 to R27.99 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.5 years 2007: 3.7 years.
The weighted average share price at date of exercise for options exercised during the year was R17.99 2007: R27.12.
Page 233 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 41 Share-based payments continued iii Measurements and assumptions The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted.
The estimate of the fair value of share options granted is measured using a Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Share options are granted under a service and non-market based performance condition.
Such conditions are not taken into account in the grant date fair value measurement of the share options granted.
There are no market conditions associated with the share option grants.
The grant date for the UK and SA Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plan annual awards is deemed to be 1 January in the year prior to the date of issue.
As such the Group is required to estimate, at the reporting date, the number and fair value of the options that will be granted in the following year.
The fair value of awards expected to be granted in 2009 which will have an IFRS 2 grant date of 1 January 2008, is shown separately below.
The grant date for all other awards is the award issue date.
The expected volatility is based on the annualised historic volatility of the share price over a period commensurate with the expected option life, ending on the date of valuation of the option.
The expected life assumption is based on the average length of time similar grants have remained outstanding in the past and the type of employees to which awards have been granted.
Page 234 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 41 Share-based payments continued v Share-based payment arrangements relating to US Asset Management During the year ended 31 December 2008, US Asset Management had the following share-based payment arrangements: OMAM Af liate Equity Plan Equity granted during the year to employees of rms participating in the OMAM Af liate Equity Plan vests 3 years from the date of grant, conditional upon continued employment over this period.
Fair value was determined based on a multiple of prior year earnings.
Under the terms of the arrangements, no sooner than 4 years from the date of purchase for purchased equity or 4 years from the date of grant for granted equity participating employees can sell their equity back to Old Mutual which acts as a buyer of last resort at a xed multiple of prior year earnings, subject to certain restrictions.
Accordingly, the schemes are accounted for as cash-settled share-based payments, despite the fact the initial purchase and or grants of equity are settled in equity instruments.
Acadian Asset Management AAM Class B equity interests in AAM acquired by employees during the year entitle the participating employees to 28.57 percent of the earnings of AAM in excess of $120 million, and to a liquidation preference proportionate to their shareholding.
In consideration for the equity acquired, the participating employees agreed to forego a portion of existing long-term incentive payments owed.
The difference between the carrying amount of this consideration and the fair value of the interest acquired was treated as share-based compensation expense.
Fair value was determined based on the discounted projected future cash ows of AAM.
Total Af liate Af liate minority share share share in Fair value of instruments granted and purchased during the year purchases grants af liate 2008 1 AAM 2007 28.6% 28.6% 2008 3.9% 2.5% 6.4% OMAM Af liate Equity Plan 2007 2.4% 7.3% 9.7% 2008 6 6 2 Total fair value of instruments $USm 2007 17 9 26 1 Percentage of Class B equity.
2 Represents fair value in excess of consideration granted for af liate share purchases.
US Asset Management annual bonus awards The OMAM Af liate Equity Plan is incorporated into annual bonus awards of employees at participating rms, which are to be settled partly in cash, and partly in equity.
The level of bonus is contingent upon current year financial and individual performance, therefore the vesting period for bonus equity to be granted during 2009 in respect of the 2008 financial year has been determined to commence from 1 January 2008.
It is anticipated that instruments with a fair value of US $3.5 million 2007: US$2.8 million will be granted during 2009 to rms participating in the OMAM Af liate Equity Plan based on 2008 financial performance.
Page 235 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 41 Share-based payments continued vi Restricted share grants The following summarises the fair value of restricted shares granted by the Group during the year: Weighted Number average granted fair value 2008 7,013,741 1.22 UK Restricted Share Plan 2007 6,112,787 1.63 2008 3,546,385 R16.62 OMSA Senior Black Management Scheme 2007 1,865,075 R22.56 2008 10,924,260 R18.68 OMSA Management Scheme 2007 4,970,627 R23.39 2008 112,596 R19.07 Old Mutual Namibia Management Scheme 2007 37,211 R23.31 2008 456,879 R14.69 Old Mutual Namibia Senior Black Management Scheme 2007 439,854 R23.36 2008 Old Mutual Namibia Broad-based Employee Scheme 2007 144,000 R21.33 2008 295,983 R95.26 Nedbank Group 2005 Matched Share Scheme 2007 179,917 R125.10 2008 92,666 R108.76 Nedbank Eyethu Black Executive Scheme 2007 72,705 R134.83 2008 167,864 R108.76 Nedbank Eyethu Black Management Scheme 2007 110,562 R134.88 2008 Nedbank Eyethu Retail Scheme 2007 2,137 R118.41 2008 2,516,999 R111.53 Nedbank Group 2005 Share Option Scheme 2007 2008 Nedbank Namibia Omu ma Black Management Scheme 2007 2008 Nedbank Namibia Omu ma Broad-based Employee Scheme 2007 2008 167,378 R18.85 Mutual & Federal Senior Black Management Scheme 2007 145,770 R25.95 2008 1,777,790 R22.46 Mutual & Federal Management Incentive Scheme 2007 95,310 R26.04 2008 145,090 R26.35 Mutual & Federal Black Business Partners Scheme 2007 2,267,136 R27.70 2008 53,770 R22.50 Mutual & Federal Namibia Management Incentive Scheme 2007 2008 Mutual & Federal Namibia Black Business Partners Scheme 2007 35,347 R26.33 2008 Mutual & Federal Namibia Community Scheme 2007 13,092 R26.33 2008 Mutual & Federal Discretionary Scheme 2007 15,480 R26.33 The share price at measurement date was used to determine the fair value of the restricted shares.
Expected dividends were not incorporated into the measurement of fair value where the holder of the restricted share is entitled to dividends throughout the vesting period.
Page 236 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 41 Share-based payments continued vii Annual bonus awards The UK and South Africa Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plans give rise to annual bonus awards.
The level of annual bonus awards is contingent upon the satisfactory completion of individual and Company performance targets, measured over the financial year prior to the date the employees receive the award.
The accounting grant date for the SA and UK annual bonus plans other than the new joiner and newly quali ed grants has therefore been determined as 1 January in the year prior to the date of issue of the grants.
The Group anticipates awards under the South African scheme of 10,770,000 options 2007: 6,456,000 options and 8,420,000 restricted shares 2007: 4,721,500 restricted shares.
The options have been valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, using an at the money option assumption.
The restricted shares have been valued using a share price of R7.6 2007: R22.91.
The Group estimate of the total fair value of the annual bonus expected to be paid in the form of options and restricted shares under the UK Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plan is outlined below.
The fair value is determined by making an estimate of the level of bonus to be paid out following the attainment of personal and Company performance conditions.
Total Total fair value Vesting fair value Vesting m period m period Year ended 31 December 2008 2008 2007 2007 Old Mutual plc performance share plans restricted shares 3 4.2 years 5 4.2 years Old Mutual plc performance share plans options 1 4.2 years 1 4.2 years viii Financial impact Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Expense arising from equity settled share and share option plans 21 38 Expense arising from cash settled share and share option plans 3 2 24 36 Closing balance of liability for cash settled share awards 15 26 Total intrinsic value liability for vested bene ts 10 42 Dividends Dividends paid were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m Notes 2008 2007 2006 Final dividend paid 4.15p per 10p share 218 2007 Interim dividend paid 2.3p per 10p share 115 2007 Final dividend paid 4.55p per 10p share 227 2008 Interim dividend paid 2.45p per 10p share 125 Dividends to ordinary equity holders 352 333 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities 38 ii 43 40 Dividend payments for the year 395 373 Dividends paid to ordinary equity holders, as above, are calculated using the number of shares in issue at the record date, less treasury shares held in ESOP trusts, life funds of Group companies, Black Economic Empowerment trusts and related undertakings.
As a consequence of the exchange control arrangements in place in certain African territories, dividends to ordinary equity holders on the branch registers of those countries or, in the case of Namibia, the Namibian section of the principal register are settled through Dividend Access Trusts established for that purpose.
In March and November 2008, 23 million and 20 million respectively were declared and paid to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities March 2007: 22 million and November 2007: 18 million.
Page 237 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 43 Contingent liabilities At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security 1,839 1,489 Irrevocable letters of credit 760 426 Secured lending 383 1,052 Other contingent liabilities 393 136 Nedbank structured nancing Historically a number of the Groups South African banking businesses entered into structured finance transactions with third parties using the tax base of these companies.
Pursuant to the terms of the majority of these transactions, the underlying third party has contractually agreed to accept the risk of any tax being imposed by the South African Revenue Service SARS, although the obligation to pay in the first instance rests with the Groups companies.
It is only in limited cases where, for example, the credit quality of a client becomes doubtful, or where the client has speci cally contracted out of the re-pricing of additional taxes, that the recovery from a client could be less than the liability that could arise on assessment, in which case provisions are made.
SARS has examined the tax aspects of some of these types of structures and SARS could assess these structures in a manner different to that initially envisaged by the contracting parties.
As a result Group companies could be obliged to pay additional amounts to SARS and recover these from clients under the applicable contractual arrangements.
American Skandia The sale of American Skandia to Prudential Financial contained customary representations and warranties.
The indemnity in respect of this is limited to US$1 billion.
Investigations by various US regulators have given rise to potential settlements and claims in relation to market timing.
American Skandias exposure to market timing is part of a wider investigation of the US industry.
The exposure is covered by the aforementioned indemnity which also covers the matter of American Skandias failure to administer the annuitisation provisions contained in certain contracts.
This was an administrative error made by the American Skandia business between 1996 and 2003.
American Skandia has been provided for in the acquisition accounting.
44 Commitments Capital commitments The Groups capital commitments are detailed in the table below.
The Groups management is con dent that future net revenues and funding will be suf cient to cover these commitments.
At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Investment property 3 Property, plant and equipment 37 66 Commitments to extend credit to customers The following table presents the contractual amounts of the Groups off-balance sheet financial instruments that commit it to extend credit to customers.
At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Original term to maturity of one term or less 2,467 1,588 Original term to maturity of more than one year 115 96 Other commitments, note issuance facilities and revolving underwriting facilities 441 237 Assets are pledged as collateral under repurchase agreements with other banks and for security deposits relating to local futures, options and stock exchange memberships.
Mandatory reserve deposits are also held with local Central Banks in accordance with statutory requirements.
These deposits are not available to finance the Groups day-to-day operations.
Commitments under the Groups operating and finance lease arrangements are described in note 19.
Page 238 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 45 Related parties The Group provides certain pension fund, insurance, banking and financial services to related parties.
These are conducted on an arms length basis and are not material to the Groups results.
i Transactions with key management personnel, remuneration and other compensation Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly, including any director whether executive or otherwise of the Group.
Details of the remuneration and other compensation paid to the Board of Directors are disclosed in the Remuneration Report and details of their shareholdings in the Company are contained in the Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters.
ii Key management personnel remuneration and other compensation Number of Value Number of Value personnel 000s personnel 000s Year ended 31 December 2008 2008 2007 2007 Directors fees 8 1,124 9 1,014 Remuneration 9,924 13,989 Cash remuneration 12 5,971 13 8,616 Short-term employee bene ts 17 1,285 20 1,319 Post employment bene ts 8 665 7 281 Other long-term bene ts 4 7 7 45 Share-based payments 11 1,996 17 3,728 11,048 15,003 Share options Number of Number of Number of options shares Number of options shares personnel 000s personnel 000s Year ended 31 December 2008 2008 2007 2007 Outstanding at beginning of the year 11 12,592 11 15,458 Leavers 4 7,706 New appointments 1 1,316 2 1,370 Granted during the year 9 1,525 8 1,888 Lapsed during the year 3 191 11 6,110 Lapsed during the year 3 143 1 14 Outstanding at end of the year 10 7,393 11 12,592 Restricted shares Number of Number of Number of options shares Number of options shares personnel 000s personnel 000s Year ended 31 December 2008 2008 2007 2007 Outstanding at beginning of the year 11 6,270 13 4,257 Leavers 4 4,325 New appointments 1 900 3 1,333 Granted during the year 8 1,741 8 1,695 Released during the year 4 566 10 1,015 Outstanding at end of the year 9 4,020 11 6,270 Page 239 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 45 Related parties continued iii Key management personnel transactions Key management personnel and members of their close family have undertaken transactions with Old Mutual plc and its subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associated undertakings in the normal course of business, details of which are given below.
For current accounts positive values indicate assets of the individual whilst for credit cards and mortgages positive values indicate liabilities of the individual.
Number of Value Number of Value personnel 000s personnel 000s Year ended 31 December 2008 2008 2007 2007 Current accounts Balance at beginning of the year 6 40 7 2,323 Net movement during the year 51 2,283 Balance at end of the year 6 11 6 40 Credit cards Balance at beginning of the year 5 16 4 12 Net movement during the year 4 4 Balance at end of the year 4 12 5 16 Mortgages Balance at beginning of the year 5 2,014 5 1,643 Net movement during the year 421 2,201 Interest charged 194 210 Less repayments 716 2,048 Foreign exchange movements 17 8 Balance at end of the year 4 1,896 5 2,014 General insurance contracts Total premium paid during the year 5 25 7 21 Claims paid during the year 1 18 2 11 Life insurance products Total sum assured value of investment at end of the year 12 8,397 7 3,157 Pensions, termination bene ts paid Value of pension plan as at end of the year 10 9,500 13 8,404 Various members of key management personnel hold, and or have at various times during the year held, investments managed by asset management businesses of the Group.
These include unit trusts, mutual funds and hedge funds.
None of the amounts concerned are material in the context of the funds managed by the Group business concerned, and all of the investments have been made by the individuals concerned either on terms which are the same as those available to external clients generally or, where that is not the case, on the same preferential terms as were available to employees of the business generally.
Page 240 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 45 Related parties continued iv Skandia Liv  Skandia publ Skandia Liv, is a related party to the Old Mutual Group.
Skandia Liv is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Skandia and its business is conducted on a mutual basis.
For the reasons given in the accounting policies Skandia Livs result is not consolidated in these financial statements.
Material transactions between the Group and the Skandia Liv group in twelve months ended 31 December 2008 were as follows: 1 Agreement in principle and framework agreement on co-operation covering market-related functions and certain staff functions this involves distribution and distribution support, customer service, market communication, administration of group insurance products, and staff and service functions.
Skandia Liv paid 52 million 2007: 86 million for services rendered under this agreement.
2 Premises the Group rents of ce premises from Skandia Liv.
The Group paid market rents of 15 million 2007: 14 million for these premises.
3 Occupational pensions Skandia Liv provides occupational pensions for the employees of the Group, for which the Group paid 15 million 2007: 14 million.
4 Agreement on IT services the Group provides IT services to Skandia Liv.
The amount charged to Skandia Liv was 9 million 2007: 7 million.
5 In 2002, prior to Skandia being acquired by Old Mutual, it sold its asset management business, Skandia Asset Management.
Skandia Liv submitted a claim against Skandia, rstly based upon the proceeds of sale and, secondly based upon the terms of the asset management agreement entered into prior to the sale.
Skandia and Skandia Liv agreed to settle the dispute by means of a binding arbitration process.
The arbitration board has not accepted Skandia Livs claim to any part of the purchase price paid, but has ruled that Skandia is obliged to pay Skandia Liv a total sum of 47 million SEK580 million 2007: 174 million SEK2,360 million plus interest by way of compensation in relation to fees under the asset management agreement which Skandia Liv deemed to be higher than prevailing market rates.
Skandia has paid 74 million 47 million plus 27 million relating to fees and interest respectively to Skandia Liv.
This ruling means that the last of a number of questions about relations between Skandia Liv and the parent company Skandia is now settled.
The balance outstanding at 31 December 2008 due from Skandia Liv is 13 million 2007: 13 million.
Various other arrangements exist between the Group and Skandia Liv, principally in respect of provision of accounting, legal and treasury functions, all of which are transacted on an arms length basis.
Arbitration settlement During the year settlement was reached in the arbitration proceedings between Skandia, and Skandia Liv in respect of the sale of the Skandia Asset Management business to Den Norske Bank in 2002.
In 2002, prior to its acquisition by Old Mutual, Skandia sold its asset management business, Skandia Asset Management, which principally managed the assets of the Skandia Liv business, to Den Norske Bank for SEK3.2 billion.
Following the sale, Skandia Liv submitted a claim against Skandia, rstly based upon the proceeds of sale and, secondly based upon the terms of the asset management agreement entered into prior to the sale.
In June 2004, Skandia and Skandia Liv agreed to settle the dispute by means of a binding arbitration process.
The arbitration board made its ruling in October 2008.
The board did not accept Skandia Livs claim to any part of the purchase price paid, but ruled that Skandia was obliged to pay Skandia Liv a sum of 47 million together with interest thereon by way of compensation in relation to fees under the asset management agreement which Skandia Liv deemed to be higher than prevailing market rates.
v Aka Capital Proprietory Limited A Group subsidiary, Nedbank Ltd, sold its 20 percent interest in Aka Capital Proprietary Limited Aka Capital at arms length, in August 2006, to the other existing Aka Capital shareholders.
These included Mr RJ Khoza, who is a non-executive director of Old Mutual plc, who acquired an additional 4.2 percent of Aka Capital through a special purpose vehicle SPV for R11.0 million.
Nedbank Ltds Capital Investment Committee approved this transaction in line with its mandate in the normal course of business.
The funding for the acquisition by Mr Khozas SPV was nanced by Nedbank Ltd on arms length terms, with none 2007: R12.8 million of such funding being outstanding at year-end.
Page 241 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 46 Principal subsidiaries and Group enterprises The following table lists the principal Group undertakings whose results are included in the consolidated financial statements.
All shares held are ordinary shares and, except for OM Group UK Ltd, are held indirectly by the Company.
Percentage Name Nature of business holding Country of incorporation Old Mutual South Africa Ltd Holding company 100 Republic of South Africa Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South Africa Ltd Life assurance 100 Republic of South Africa Old Mutual Life Assurance Company Namibia Ltd Life assurance 100 Namibia Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa Pty Ltd Asset management 100 Republic of South Africa Nedbank Group Ltd Banking 61 Republic of South Africa Nedbank Ltd Banking 61 Republic of South Africa Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd General insurance 84 Republic of South Africa Old Mutual US Holdings, Inc Holding company 100 Delaware, USA Old Mutual U. S. Life Holdings, Inc Holding company 100 Delaware, USA OM Financial Life Insurance Company Life assurance 100 Maryland, USA Old Mutual Bermuda Ltd Life assurance 100 Bermuda Dwight Asset Management Company Asset management 100 Delaware, USA 1 Acadian Asset Management Asset management 100 Massachusetts, USA Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney & Strauss, Inc Asset management 100 Nevada, USA OM Group UK Ltd Holding company 100 England and Wales Skandia Europe and Latin America Holdings Ltd Holding company 100 England and Wales Skandia Life Assurance Company Ltd Life assurance 100 England and Wales  Skandia Life assurance 100 Sweden SkandiaBanken AB Banking 100 Sweden Skandia UK Holdings Limited Holding company 100 England and Wales Old Mutual Netherlands B. V. Holding company 100 Netherlands 1 The Group holds 100 percent Class A shares and 71.43 percent Class B shares in Acadian Asset Management.
The remaining 28.57 percent Class B shares are held by the employees as described in note 41 v. A complete list of subsidiaries is led with the UK Registrar of Companies with the annual return.
All the above companies have a year-end of 31 December.
As described in the accounting policies Skandia Liv is not consolidated in these financial statements.
Skandia Livs capital and reserves are summarised as follows: At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Capital and Reserves 25 25 Loss Pro t after tax 7 2 Page 242 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 47 Financial risk The Group is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets investments and loans, financial liabilities investment contracts, customer deposits and borrowings, reinsurance assets and insurance liabilities.
The key focus of financial risk management for the Group is ensuring that the proceeds from its financial assets are suf cient to fund the obligations arising from its insurance and banking operations.
The most important components of financial risk are credit risk, market risk arising from changes in equity, and bond prices, interest and foreign exchange rates, and liquidity risk.
Market risk arises from open positions in interest rate, currency and equity products, all of which are exposed to general and speci c market movements and or conditions.
a Financial Risk Management strategy and policy i Overview The Old Mutual Group operates an Enterprise Risk Management ERM framework containing the following components: a robust risk governance structure: risk appetites established at Group and subsidiary level: Group-wide risk policies: and methodologies that focus on risk identi cation, risk measurement, risk assessment, action plans, monitoring and reporting.
Group risk principles have been established for each major risk category to which the Group is exposed.
These are designed to provide management teams across the Group with guiding principles within which to manage risks.
Business unit risk policies expand on these principles and contain detailed requirements and or limits for the speci c business unit concerned.
Further details regarding the ERM framework and risk governance procedures are contained in the Risk Management section on pages 12 to 20 of this Annual Report.
The Groups exposure to financial risk varies according to the nature of its operations and the location of those operations.
Consequently the Groups policy is to manage financial risk separately through its principal operations subject to appropriate central corporate monitoring.
The Groups operations that incur signi cant financial risk are: Old Mutual plc OMSA, through its principal operating entity, Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South Africa OMLAC SA US Life Skandia, through its unit-linked assurance operations in UK, Nordic and ELAM, and through its banking operation in Nordic SkandiaBanken M&F Nedbank The Groups asset management businesses are exposed to financial risk to some extent due to the impact of market uctuations on revenue levels, which are a function of the value of client portfolios.
This exposure is reduced through asset class and product diversi cation.
Investment risk is borne principally by the client.
These asset management businesses, together with the long-term insurance operations in the rest of Africa, do not give rise to signi cant financial risks relative to the Group as a whole, and are therefore not considered further.
ii Old Mutual plc The principal financial risks Old Mutual plc faces, other than those that it is exposed to through its operating entities, relate to credit risk, liquidity risk and currency risk.
Credit risk arises primarily as a result of the exposure to financial institutions with which Old Mutual plc has deposited surplus cash or entered into other financial arrangements, such as forward foreign exchange transactions or interest rate derivatives.
The Old Mutual plc Board controls this risk by setting limits on the level of exposure to individual counterparties.
Liquidity risk is the risk that Old Mutual plc may not be able to pay obligations when due, or provide capital to its subsidiaries when required.
Old Mutual plc mitigates this risk by ensuring it maintains liquid assets and or committed finance facilities suf cient to meet its expected needs.
In terms of currency risk, Old Mutual plcs exposure arises from the fact that the impact on the consolidated results of the Group, insofar as its presentational currency is GBP, whilst the functional currencies of its principal operations are South African Rand, US Dollar, Euro and Swedish Krona.
Old Mutual plc seeks to reduce its consolidated exposure to currency uctuations by hedging a proportion of the currency translation risk of its net investments in its foreign subsidiaries and anticipated cash ows through currency swaps, currency borrowings and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The hedging relationships that qualify for hedge accounting are classi ed as either cash ow hedges or net investment hedges in the consolidated financial statements.
Certain transactions undertaken as hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Fair value movements for these derivatives are accounted for in the income statement.
iii Insurance operations The principal financial risks faced by the insurance operations are credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk and, to the extent that those operations have overseas operations with different functional currencies, currency risk.
Each of the insurance operations manages their financial risks using asset and liability management ALM frameworks aimed at matching assets to the liabilities arising as a result of the various type of bene ts payable to policyholders, as well as seeking to maximise the return on shareholders funds, all within an acceptable risk framework.
Page 243 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 47 Financial risk continued a Financial Risk Management strategy and policy continued iii Insurance operations continued The insurance operations retain substantial financial exposures to the extent that the bene ts payable to policyholders are not linked to the performance of the underlying assets and or policyholders enjoy options embedded in their contracts that are not matched by identical options in their investment portfolios.
These exposures include liquidity risk for example where the durations of assets do not match those of the policyholder liabilities they seek to match, credit risk where changes in credit quality of asset portfolios or credit losses cannot be passed on to policyholders and market risk for example in respect of equity holdings in shareholders funds.
iv Banking operations The Groups banking operations incur credit, interest rate and liquidity risk by accepting deposits from customers at both xed and oating rates and for various periods and seeks to earn above average interest margins by consolidating them and investing in a range of assets, often for longer periods, whilst maintaining suf cient liquidity to meet all claims that might fall due.
Nedbank also incurs credit exposures as a result of entering into guarantees and other commitments such as letters of credit and performance, and other bonds.
Nedbank also trades in financial instruments, taking positions in traded and over the counter instruments including derivatives, in order to take advantage of short-term market movements in equity, bond, currency, interest rate and commodity prices.
Each of the banking operations manages their financial risks using an asset and liability management framework, conducted through formal structures appropriate to their individual businesses.
b Capital management i Overview The Group actively manages its capital with a focus on capital ef ciency and effective risk management.
The capital objectives are to maintain the Groups ability to continue as a going concern while enabling the ability to identify capital strains and ensuring that the return to shareholders is maximised through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The Group ensures that it can meet its expected capital and nancing needs at all times having regard to the Groups business plans, forecasts and strategic initiatives.
It is critical that the Groups capital management policies are aligned with the Groups overall strategy, business plans and risk appetite.
The Groups Capital Management Committee GCMC reviews the capital structure regularly.
As part of the review the committee considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
Based on the recommendations of the committee, the Group will balance its overall capital structure through the payment of dividends, new share issues, share buybacks as well as the issue of new debt or the redemption of existing debt.
Measures that inform the GCMCs views on the appropriate level of capital for the Group includes shareholder performance objectives, regulatory capital requirements, internal economic capital measures, rating agency expectations and general views on maintaining financial exibility.
The Groups overall capital risk appetite is managed with reference to the requirements of the relevant stakeholders and seeks to maintain suf cient, but not excessive, financial strength to support stakeholder requirements, optimise its overall debt to equity structure to enhance returns to shareholders, subject to the requirements set by the Groups capital risk appetite and retain financial exibility by maintaining liquidity, including unutilised committed credit lines.
The primary sources of capital used by the Group are equity shareholders funds, preference shares, subordinated debt and borrowings.
Alternative resources are utilised where appropriate.
Targets are established in relation to regulatory solvency, ratings, liquidity and dividend capacity and are a key tool in managing capital in accordance with our risk appetite and the requirements of our various stakeholders.
The individual companies in the Group are subject to regulatory capital requirements at an individual level.
In addition, the Group as a whole is subject to the solvency requirements of the Financial Groups Directive FGD as implemented by the FSA.
The Group utilises both this measure and economic capital measures to manage its capital position.
Under FGD a continuous company solvency test is applied.
Under this test the surplus capital held in each of the regulated entities is aggregated with the free assets of the non-regulated entities.
Group borrowings are deducted from this total other than subordinated debt issues which qualify as capital.
No credit is given to the bene t of diversi cation.
The test is passed where the aggregate number is positive.
Due to the geographically diverse nature of the groups operations there is an added complexity to the application of the FSA capital requirements.
In particular certain regional capital requirements need to be recalculated under the FSA rules as if the companies were directly subject to the FSA capital regime.
The Group met its FGD requirements at 31 December 2008 and throughout the year.
As at the date of issue of these financial statements the unaudited pro-forma surplus was estimated to be 0.7 billion.
The FGD position will be submitted to the FSA by 30 April 2009.
Page 244 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 47 Financial risk continued Capital position statements i Long-term insurance business operations Each of the Groups long term businesses is capitalised at a suf ciently strong level for their individual circumstances.
The regulatory capital position of the Groups long-term insurance operations, based on latest estimates that are not audited, is summarised as follows: Restated South Africa United States Europe South Africa United States Europe m m m m m m At 31 December unaudited 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 Equity shareholders funds 3,455 339 3,745 3,984 1,191 3,699 Adjustments to a regulatory basis: Inadmissible assets 15 276 1,066 22 154 1,049 Other adjustments 257 232 1,412 565 570 1,505 Total available capital resources 3,183 295 1,267 3,397 467 1,145 Total capital requirements local regulatory basis 851 232 237 886 126 211 Overall excess of capital resources over requirements 2,332 63 1,030 2,511 341 934 Restated South Africa United States Europe South Africa United States Europe m m m m m m At 31 December 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 Capital position at 1 January 3,397 467 1,145 2,993 409 944 Earnings after tax 233 751 366 535 19 238 Change in admissible assets and other adjustments and other movements in reserves 276 239 327 452 62 75 New capital capital redemptions 650 19 3 Dividends 209 55 613 Foreign exchange movements 48 168 138 30 4 35 Capital position at 31 December 3,183 295 1,267 3,397 467 1,145 South Africa The amounts disclosed above represent the capital position of OMLAC SA and the life business in Namibia.
The calculations are determined in accordance with the requirements of the South African Financial Services Board, using estimates of the regulatory adjustments, as the relevant regulatory returns have yet to be completed or audited.
At 31 December 2008, OMLAC SA s excess assets was 3.8 times 2007: 3.8 times the Statutory Capital Adequacy Requirement SCAR, after allowing for estimates of statutory limitations on the value of certain assets.
OMLAC SA s shareholders funds include its investments in Nedbank 1,176 million 2007: 1,633 million and M&F 219 million 2007: 404 million.
In addition, 904 million 2007: 516 million is invested in the Groups loan notes and 335 million 2007: 194 million is held in inter-company loans.
All inter-company loans are immediately repayable and subject to commercial terms and conditions, with the exception that interest may be waived in certain circumstances.
The amount of the surplus available to be distributed as dividends to the ultimate parent, Old Mutual plc, is subject to available distributable reserves within the shareholders fund, maintaining the minimum statutory capital adequacy requirement and foreign exchange controls, as determined by the South African Reserve Bank.
The statutory solvency requirement for Namibia is N$4 million 0.3 million 2007: N$4 million 0.3 million.
This has been determined in accordance with local statutory rules.
United States In the case of OMUSL, the amounts disclosed above represent the consolidated capital position of the OMUSL group of companies, including Old Mutual Financial Life Insurance Company, Old Mutual Financial Life Insurance Company of New York, Old Mutual Bermuda Limited and Old Mutual Reassurance Ireland Limited.
The calculations have been determined on the basis of local regulatory requirements for the United States, Bermuda and Ireland accordingly.
The amount of the surplus available to be distributed as dividends to the ultimate parent, Old Mutual plc, is subject to available distributable reserves within the entities and the requirement to maintain the minimum statutory capital requirements.
Page 245 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 47 Financial risk continued Europe In the case of Skandia, the amounts disclosed above represent the consolidated capital position of Skandias unit-linked assurance operations in the United Kingdom, Scandinavia and Continental Europe.
The calculations have been determined on the basis of local regulatory requirements for the territories in question.
The amount of the surplus available to be distributed as dividends to the ultimate parent, Old Mutual plc, is subject to available distributable reserves within the shareholders fund, maintaining the minimum statutory capital adequacy requirements and obtaining any necessary regulatory permissions as required by local regulators in the territories in question.
iv Banking operations The regulatory capital position of the Groups banking operations, based on latest estimates, is summarised as follows: Africa Europe Africa Europe m m m m Banking business unaudited 2008 2008 2007 2007 Equity shareholder funds 1,434 218 1,357 221 Eligible subordinated debt 482 105 546 94 Inadmissible assets 3 2 Other adjustments 18 1 20 11 Total capital resources 1,898 321 1,883 324 Total capital requirement 1,528 166 1,375 194 Excess of capital resources over capital requirement 370 155 508 130 Capital position at 1 January 1,883 324 1,440 259 Earnings after tax and other increases in reserves 243 119 333 74 Change in admissible assets, other adjustments and other movements in reserves 49 13 35 20 New capital 63 Net redemption issue of subordinated debt 60 169 Dividends paid 104 149 94 Foreign exchange movements 15 40 7 11 Capital position at 31 December 1,898 321 1,883 324 The above amounts represent the capital positions of Nedbank Limited including the London branch, Imperial Bank Limited and SkandiaBanken AB.
The calculations have been determined on the basis of local regulatory requirements for the territories in question, and re ect the Groups percentage ownership.
c Credit risk i Overall exposure to credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that counterparty will default on its contractual obligation resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties and obtaining suf cient collateral where appropriate, as a means of mitigating the financial loss from defaults.
The Groups exposure and credit rating of its counterparties are continuously monitored and the aggregate value of transactions concluded is spread amongst approved counterparties.
The Group does not have signi cant credit exposure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having similar characteristics.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
Nedbanks lending portfolio forms the substantial part of the Groups loans and advances, analysed below.
Credit risk represents the most signi cant risk type facing Nedbank, accounting for over 70 percent of its economic capital requirements.
Nedbanks credit risk pro le is managed in terms of its credit risk management framework, which encompasses comprehensive credit policy, mandate limits and governance structures, and is approved by the Nedbank Board.
The other major source of credit risk arises predominantly in the Groups insurance operations portfolios of debt and similar securities along with those portfolios of debt instruments held by the banking operations.
Credit risk for these portfolios is managed with reference to established credit rating agencies with limits placed on exposures to below investment grade holdings.
Other than the above, the Group has other limited credit risk exposures in respect of amounts due from policyholders, intermediaries and reinsurers.
None of the long-term business operations cedes signi cant risk through reinsurance and any loans to policyholders are secured on the surrender value of the relevant policies.
The credit risk exposure of the Groups South Africa general insurance business, classi ed as non-current assets held-for-sale in 2007, is included in the analysis below.
Page 246 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 47 Financial risk continued The table below represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk, without taking into account the value of any collateral obtained.
The total credit exposure also includes potential exposure arising from financial guarantees given by the Group and undrawn loan commitments, which are not yet re ected in the Groups balance sheet.
c Credit risk continued At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Mandatory reserve deposits with Central Banks 734 615 Reinsurers share of long-term business policyholder liabilities 1,148 1,394 Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities 115 66 Deposits held with reinsurers 164 215 Loans and advances 35,745 30,690 Home loans 14,111 12,083 Commercial mortgages 5,325 4,415 Properties in possession 58 23 Credit cards 556 541 Overdrafts 895 990 Policyholder loans 260 204 Other loans to clients 4,443 4,729 Net finance lease and instalment debtors 4,474 3,866 Preference shares and debentures 1,142 689 Factoring accounts 29 36 Trade, other bills and bankers acceptances 78 135 Term loans 4,746 2,988 Remittances in transit 15 14 Deposits placed under reverse repurchase agreements 192 429 Less: impairment of loans and advances 579 452 Investments and securities 32,297 27,705 Government and  securities 8,976 7,234 Other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 19,116 16,902 Short-term funds and securities treated as investments 3,989 3,342 Other 216 227 Other assets 2,681 2,330 Derivative financial instruments assets 4,633 1,527 Cash and cash equivalents 2,862 3,501 Financial guarantees and other credit related contingent liabilities 1,989 1,691 Loan commitments and other credit related commitments 4,165 4,683 86,533 74,417 Page 247 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 47 Financial risk continued c Credit risk continued ii Debt instruments and similar securities The following table shows an age analysis of the portfolio of debt instruments and similar securities: At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Neither past due nor impaired 31,875 27,448 Impaired instruments 206 30 Total debt instruments and similar securities 32,081 27,478 The following table shows an analysis of the carrying values of the Groups portfolio of debt and similar securities according to their credit rating Standard & Poors or equivalent, by investment grade.
Government Other debt and securities, governmentpreference Short-term related shares and funds and securities debentures securities Total At 31 December 2008 m m m m Investment grade AAA to BBB 7,029 14,969 3,601 25,599 Sub-investment grade BB and lower 312 312 Not rated 1,947 3,835 388 6,170 8,976 19,116 3,989 32,081 Government Other debt and securities, governmentpreference Short-term related shares and funds and securities debentures securities Total At 31 December 2007 m m m m Investment grade AAA to BBB 5,122 14,229 2,969 22,320 Sub-investment grade BB and lower 296 296 Not rated 2,112 2,377 373 4,862 7,234 16,902 3,342 27,478 In general, no collateral is taken in respect of the Groups holdings of debt instruments and similar securities.
United States US Life has incurred impairment losses of 414 million and net unrealised losses of 1,800 million and the following analysis on the US Life debt instruments and similar securities portfolio and of its fair value gains and losses gives further information as to the quality and spread of the investment portfolio.
US Life are the only business unit where the investment portfolio is categorised as Available-for-sale.
Page 248 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 47 Financial risk continued US Life NAIC designation For US statutory reporting, debt securities are classi ed into six categories speci ed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners NAIC.
The categories range from class 1 the highest to class 6 the lowest.
Classes 1 to 5 are regarded as performing.
Class 6 securities are regarded as in or near default.
Generally, classes 1 and 2 are regarded as investment grade by nationally recognised ratings agencies, classes 3, 4, 5 and 6 securities are non-investment grade securities.
BB and AAA AA A BBB below Total At 31 December 2008 % % % % % % Finance 0 1 7 5 1 14 Banking 1 1 7 5 0 14 Utility 0 0 2 6 0 8 Communications 0 0 3 4 0 7 Insurance 0 0 3 3 0 6 Energy 0 0 2 3 0 5 Manufacturing 0 0 1 1 0 2 Other 27 3 4 8 2 44 Total 28 5 29 35 3 100 BB and AAA AA A BBB below Total At 31 December 2007 % % % % % % Finance 1 2 7 5 0 15 Banking 1 1 6 5 0 13 Utility 0 0 2 5 1 8 Communications 0 0 3 5 0 8 Insurance 0 0 3 3 0 6 Energy 0 0 1 3 0 4 Manufacturing 0 0 1 1 0 2 Other 29 2 4 8 1 44 Total 31 5 27 35 2 100 Page 249 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 47 Financial risk continued c Credit risk continued ii Debt instruments and similar securities continued US Life Securities by industry The following table analyses the securities portfolio by industry At At 31 December 31 December % % 2008 2007 Af liated 4 1 Air transport 1 1 Asset backed 6 7 Automotive 1 1 Banking 14 13 Basic industries 2 2 CMBS 10 11 Communications 6 8 Consumer cyclical 2 2 Consumer non-cyclical 2 2 Energy 5 4 Entertainment 1 1 Finance 14 16 Insurance 6 6 International 1 3 Manufacturing 2 2 Municipal 1 RMBS 10 9 Technology 1 1 Transportation 1 1 Treasury 1 1 Utility 9 8 Total 100 100 Page 250 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 47 Financial risk continued Further information on the book values, fair values and unrealised gains and losses within the debt securities portfolio held by the Groups US subsidiary, US Life, is given in the following tables.
US Life fair value gains and losses At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Assets fair valued at below book value Book value 9,525 5,313 Unrealised loss 1,935 311 Fair value as included in balance sheet 7,590 5,002 Assets fair valued at or above book value Book value 2,326 4,163 Unrealised gain 135 135 Fair value as included in balance sheet 2,461 4,298 Total Book value 11,851 9,476 Unrealised loss 1,800 176 Fair value as included in balance sheet 10,051 9,300 The above takes account of the unrealised losses in relation to those securities that were reclassi ed in accordance with the provisions of the October 2008 amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement which had an aggregate carrying value and aggregate fair value as at 31 December 2008 of 1,262 million and 972 million respectively.
Included in the above are the amounts relating to sub-prime, Alt-A, CMBS and RMBS securities of: Unrealised Unrealised Fair value loss Fair value loss m m m m At 31 December 2008 2008 2007 2007 Sub-prime 312 141 368 16 Alt-A 33 10 33 1 CMBS 973 288 1,004 4 RMBS 1,036 39 768 4 Total 2,354 478 2,173 25 US Life debt securities in an unrealised loss position The following tables excludes unrealised gains.
Unrealised Fair value loss At 31 December 2008 m m Between 90% and 100% 2,686 135 Between 80% and 90% 1,814 308 Below 80% 3,090 1,492 Total 7,590 1,935 Unrealised Fair value loss At 31 December 2007 m m Between 90% and 100% 4,252 150 Between 80% and 90% 583 94 Below 80% 167 67 Total 5,002 311 Page 251 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 47 Financial risk continued c Credit risk continued ii Debt instruments and similar securities continued Included in the above are the amounts relating to sub-prime, Alt-A, CMBS and RMBS securities of: Unrealised Fair value loss At 31 December 2008 m m Between 90% and 100% 738 34 Between 80% and 90% 232 38 Below 80% 554 428 Total 1,524 500 Unrealised Fair value loss At 31 December 2007 m m Between 90% and 100% 1,139 25 Between 80% and 90% 39 7 Below 80% 24 8 Total 1,202 40 Aged analysis of unrealised losses for the time periods indicated The following table excludes unrealised gains.
Noninvestment Investment At 31 December 2008 grade grade Total Less than 6 months 5 161 166 6 months to 1 year 47 667 714 Over 1 year 49 1,006 1,055 101 1,834 1,935 Noninvestment Investment At 31 December 2007 grade grade Total Less than 6 months 2 35 37 6 month to 1 year 10 106 116 Over 1 year 12 146 158 24 287 311 Page 252 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 47 Financial risk continued c Credit risk continued iii Reinsurance assets An age analysis of the Groups balance sheet exposures to reinsurers is set out below.
At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Neither past due nor impaired 1,427 1,656 Sub-investment grade BB and lower 1 Past due but not impaired, greater than 6 months but less than 1 year 18 Total reinsurance assets 1,427 1,675 The following table shows an analysis of the Groups balance sheet exposure to reinsurers according to the individual reinsurers credit rating Standard & Poors or equivalent.
Reinsurers share Reinsurers of long-term share business of general Deposits policyholder insurance held with liabilities liabilities reinsurers Total At 31 December 2008 m m m m Investment grade AAA to BBB 1,131 115 164 1,410 Sub-investment grade BB and lower Not rated 17 17 1,148 115 164 1,427 Reinsurers share Reinsurers of long-term share business of general Deposits policyholder insurance held with liabilities liabilities reinsurers Total At 31 December 2007 m m m m Investment grade AAA to BBB 1,375 66 215 1,656 Sub-investment grade BB and lower 1 1 Not rated 18 18 1,394 66 215 1,675 Collateral is not taken against reinsurance assets or deposits held with reinsurers other than in limited circumstances.
Page 253 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 47 Financial risk continued d Market risk i Overview Market risk is the risk of a financial impact arising from the changes in values of financial assets or financial liabilities from changes in equity, bond and property prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
Market risk arises differently across the Groups businesses depending on the types of financial assets and liabilities held.
Each of the Groups business units has an established set of policies, principles and governance processes to manage market risk within their individual businesses and in accordance with their local regulatory requirements.
A monitoring process established at a Group level overlies these individual approaches to the management of market risk.
The impacts of changes in market risk are monitored and managed by way of sensitivity analyses, through the business units own regulatory processes, with reference to the Groups economic capital processes, and by other means.
The sensitivity of the Groups earnings, capital position and embedded value is monitored through the Groups embedded value reporting processes.
ii Insurance operations For the Groups insurance operations, equity and property price risk and interest rate risk on the value of the securities are modelled in accordance with the Groups risk-based capital practices, which require suf cient capital to be held in excess of the statutory minimum to allow the Group to manage signi cant equity exposures.
In South Africa the stock selection and investment analysis process is supported by a well-developed research function.
For xed annuities, market risks are managed where possible by investing in xed interest securities with a duration closely corresponding to those liabilities.
Market risk on policies that include speci c guarantees and where shareholders carry the investment risk, principally reside in the South African guaranteed non-pro t annuity book, which is closely matched with gilts and semi-gilts.
Other non-pro t policies are also suitably matched based upon comprehensive investment guidelines.
Market risk on with-pro t policies, where investment risk is shared, is minimised by appropriate bonus declaration practices.
In the US, for xed annuities, policyholder option risk is managed by investing in xed securities with durations within a half-year of the duration of the liabilities.
Cash ows in any period are closely aligned to ensure any mismatch is not material.
In addition, extensive interest rate scenario testing is carried out, as required by US regulatory authorities, in order to ensure that the amounts reserved are suf cient to meet the guaranteed obligations.
The guaranteed returns provided under equity indexed annuities are hedged to ensure a close matching of option or futures payoffs to the liability growth.
Hedging is largely static with minimal trading.
For variable annuities, the guaranteed returns provided are dynamically hedged.
Hedging positions are reviewed daily to re-adjust them as necessary.
In Skandias unit-linked assurance operations, the Group has limited exposure to the volatility from equity markets, because in the main, equity price risk is borne by policyholders subject to the impact on asset-based fees charged on policyholder funds.
In respect of Skandias shareholders funds, equity price risks are addressed in Skandias investment policy, which provides for very limited opportunity for business units to invest their own capital in equities or in units in equity funds.
In some areas of Skandias business, most notably its traditional life insurance business, Skandia is exposed to market risks arising from various forms of guarantees.
Typically the policyholder is guaranteed a certain return regardless of the asset return achieved during the term of the policy.
These risks are closely monitored and mitigated by applying asset and liability management techniques, ensuring that the proceeds from sale of assets are suf cient to meet the obligations to policyholders.
Sensitivities to adverse impacts of changes in market prices arising in the Groups insurance operations are set out in the Old Mutual Market Consistent Embedded Value supplementary basis information section of the Annual Report and Accounts on pages 287 to 294. iii Banking operations The principal market risks arising in the Groups banking operations arise from: trading risk in Nedbank Capital: and banking book interest rate risk arises from repricing and or maturity mismatches between on and off-balance sheet components in all banking businesses.
A comprehensive market risk framework is used to ensure that market risks are understood and managed.
Governance structures are in place to achieve effective independent monitoring and management of market risk.
Page 254 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 47 Financial risk continued d Market risk continued iii Banking operations continued Trading risk Market risk exposures from trading activities at Nedbank Capital are measured using Value-at-Risk VaR, supplemented by sensitivity analysis, and stress-scenario analysis, and limit structures are set accordingly.
The VaR risk measure estimates the potential loss in pre-tax pro t over a given holding period for a speci ed con dence level.
The VaR methodology is a statistically fide ned, probability-based approach that takes into account market volatilities as well as risk diversi cation by recognising offsetting positions and correlations between products and markets.
Risks can be measured consistently across all markets and products, and risk measures can be aggregated to arrive at a single risk number.
The one-day 99 percent VaR number used by Nedbank represents the overnight loss that has less than 1 percent chance of occurring under normal market conditions.
By its nature, VaR is only a single measure and cannot be relied upon on its own as a means of measuring and managing risk.
Average Minimum Maximum Year-end Historical VaR one-day, 99 percent by risk type m m m m At 31 December 2008 Foreign exchange 0.4 0.1 1.3 0.2 Interest rate 0.9 0.5 1.6 1.3 Equity products 0.5 0.2 1.4 0.4 Other 0.4 0.2 0.6 0.4 Diversi cation 0.9 0.8 Total VaR exposure 1.3 1.0 4.9 1.5 Average Minimum Maximum Year-end Historical VaR one-day, 99 percent by risk type m m m m At 31 December 2007 Foreign exchange 0.2 0.5 0.3 Interest rate 1.0 0.7 1.6 1.0 Equity products 0.9 0.4 2.0 0.5 Diversi cation 0.3 0.2 Total VaR exposure 1.8 1.1 4.1 1.6 Page 255 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 47 Financial risk continued d Market risk continued iii Banking operations continued Banking book interest rate risk Banking book interest rate risk at Nedbank arises because: the bank writes a large quantum of prime-linked assets and raises fewer prime-linked deposits: funding is prudently raised across the curve at xed-term deposit rates that reprice only on maturity: short-term demand-funding products reprice to different short-end base rates: certain ambiguous maturity accounts are non-rate-sensitive: and the bank has a mismatch in net non-rate-sensitive balances, including shareholders funds, that do not reprice for interest rate changes.
Nedbank uses standard analytical techniques to measure interest rate sensitivity within its banking book.
This includes static reprice gap analysis and a point-in-time interest income stress testing for parallel interest rate moves over a forward-looking 12-month period.
At 31 December 2008 the sensitivity of the banking book to a 1 percent instantaneous reduction in interest rates would have led to a reduction in net interest income and equity of 31 million 2007: 41 million.
The table below shows the repricing pro le of Nedbanks banking book balance sheet, which highlights the fact that assets reprice quicker than liabilities following derivative hedging activities.
The majority of SkandiaBankens deposit taking and lending activity, after risk coverage, is short-term, which means that interest rates are changed to re ect the situation in the money market.
The interest rate risk that arises from mismatching of xed rates of interest is reduced through interest rate swap agreements.
Page 256 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 47 Financial risk continued e Currency risk The Group is exposed to effects of uctuations in the prevailing foreign currency exchange rates on its financial position and cash ows.
The principal foreign currency risk arises from the fact that the Groups functional currency is GBP, whereas the functional currencies of its principal operations are South African Rand, US Dollar, Swedish Krona and Euro.
The Group reduces this risk through the use of currency swaps, currency borrowings and forward foreign exchange contracts.
Such risk mitigation techniques are re ected in the currency analyses that follow.
The table below shows the Groups balance sheet by major currency at 31 December 2008.
ZAR GBP USD Euro SEK Other Total At 31 December 2008 m m m m m m m Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 479 1,670 1,392 1,065 1,146 130 5,882 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks 686 46 2 734 Property, plant and equipment 594 27 28 5 3 25 682 Investment property 1,296 181 1 1,478 Deferred tax assets 97 166 1,194 44 73 16 1,590 Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures 78 26 7 111 Deferred acquisition costs 117 624 2,082 234 29 113 3,199 Reinsurers share of long-term business policyholder liabilities 15 607 508 1 6 11 1,148 Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities 100 15 115 Deposits held with reinsurers 3 161 164 Loans and advances 29,263 468 1,398 166 1,728 2,722 35,745 Investments and securities 23,251 27,969 17,845 4,595 7,799 2,063 83,522 Current tax receivable 29 80 1 6 2 118 Client indebtedness for acceptances 208 9 1 2 220 Other assets 983 311 1,396 54 297 96 3,137 Derivative financial instruments assets 3,184 32 1,210 175 30 2 4,633 Cash and cash equivalents 716 645 657 180 293 371 2,862 Non-current assets held-for-sale 7 7 61,106 32,852 27,881 6,526 11,404 5,578 145,347 Liabilities Longterm business policyholder liabilities 23,604 20,607 23,070 5,949 6,655 1,384 81,269 General insurance liabilities 316 28 344 Third party interests in consolidation of funds 374 1,068 129 1,020 2,591 Borrowed funds 1,184 279 316 455 61 2,295 Provisions 142 102 124 18 58 33 477 Deferred revenue 26 394 128 50 598 Deferred tax liabilities 329 235 578 194 87 29 1,452 Current tax payable 115 64 13 2 20 5 219 Other liabilities 1,655 842 754 182 180 120 3,733 Liabilities under acceptances 208 9 1 2 220 Amounts owed to bank depositors 30,298 645 1,724 282 2,261 2,961 38,171 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 3,135 33 1,128 7 92 4,395 Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 6 6 61,392 24,269 27,845 7,218 10,434 4,612 135,770 Page 257 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 47 Financial risk continued e Currency risk continued ZAR GBP USD Euro SEK Other Total At 31 December 2007 m m m m m m m Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 446 1,732 1,105 866 1,190 120 5,459 Mandatory reserve deposits with Central Banks 611 4 615 Property, plant and equipment 530 24 20 5 3 26 608 Investment property 1,117 361 1 1,479 Deferred tax assets 120 41 431 17 77 3 683 Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures 66 25 10 81 Deferred acquisition costs 96 513 1,423 138 13 70 2,253 Reinsurers share of long-term business policyholder liabilities 17 702 663 1 4 7 1,394 Deposits held with reinsurers 213 213 Loans and advances 24,831 373 1,610 106 1,309 2,458 30,687 Investments and securities 26,347 28,465 19,660 5,958 7,699 1,498 89,627 Current tax receivable 7 68 1 7 83 Client indebtedness for acceptances 158 4 3 165 Other assets 1,126 314 1,095 140 40 59 2,774 Derivative financial instruments assets 700 98 647 66 15 1 1,527 Cash and cash equivalents 861 1,722 371 114 174 575 3,469 Non-current assets held-for-sale 542 6 4 6 526 533 1,617 57,575 34,444 27,246 7,418 10,702 5,349 142,734 Liabilities Long-term business policyholder liabilities 25,663 31,347 13,862 2,976 7,773 2,630 84,251 Third party interests in consolidation of funds 488 1,406 147 1,506 3,547 Borrowed funds 1,076 384 132 580 177 4 2,353 Provisions 155 165 79 4 82 14 499 Deferred revenue 28 340 58 36 462 Deferred tax liabilities 405 339 399 160 100 10 1,413 Current tax payable 176 119 8 6 4 7 320 Other liabilities 3,187 1,621 938 172 169 93 6,180 Liabilities under acceptances 158 1 4 2 165 Amounts owed to bank depositors 24,672 696 1,786 138 1,700 2,825 31,817 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 949 105 621 4 37 1,716 Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 358 6 50 414 57,315 36,523 17,976 4,104 11,548 5,671 133,137 A 10 percent deterioration in the value of the major currencies shown above in relation to GBP would result in a reduction in the Groups consolidated equity holders funds of 2 million 2007: 1,091 million, and a similar decline in the average exchange rates for the year as set out in note 2 would have led to a reduction in Adjusted operating pro t of 93 million 2007: 146 million.
Page 258 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 47 Financial risk continued f Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that cash may not be available to pay obligations when due at a reasonable cost.
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, which has built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Groups short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The Group manages liquidity by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash ows and matching the maturity pro les of financial assets and liabilities.
Individual businesses separately maintain and manage their local liquidity requirements according to their business needs, within the overall liquidity framework established by Old Mutual plc.
The contractual maturities of the Groups financial liabilities are set out in the appropriate notes to the financial statements.
g Fiduciary activities The Group provides custody, trustee, corporate administration, and investment management and advisory services to third parties that involve the Group making allocation and purchase and sale decisions in relation to a wide range of financial instruments.
Those assets that are held in a duciary capacity are not included in these financial statements.
Some of these arrangements involve the Group accepting targets for benchmark levels of returns for the assets under the Groups care.
These services give rise to the risk that the Group will be accused of misadministration or under-performance.
Total funds under management are disclosed in note 3 v. 48 Insurance risk The Group assumes insurance risk by issuing insurance contracts, under which the Group agrees to compensate the policyholder or other bene ciary if a speci ed uncertain future event the insured event affecting the policyholder occurs.
Insurance risk includes mortality and morbidity risk in the case of long-term business or risk of loss from re, accident, or other source in the case of general insurance.
For accounting purposes insurance risk is fide ned as risk other than financial risk.
Contracts issued by the Group may include both insurance and financial risk: contracts with signi cant insurance risk are classi ed as insurance contracts, while contracts with no or insigni cant insurance risk are classi ed as investment contracts.
The Groups approach to financial risk management has been described in note 47. a Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating insurance risk The Groups exposure to insurance risk varies depending on the nature of its operations and their location.
Consequently the Groups policy is to manage insurance risk separately through its principal operations, subject to appropriate central Corporate supervision and monitoring.
The Groups principal operations that incur signi cant insurance risk are: OMLAC SA long-term insurance in South Africa Old Mutual US Life long-term insurance in the United States Mutual & Federal general insurance in South Africa The Groups other insurance operations include long-term insurance in Skandias unit-linked assurance operations in Scandinavia, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe and Latin America, Namibia, and Rest of World but do not give rise to signi cant insurance risks relative to the Group as a whole.
Exposure to insurance risk in Skandias unit-linked assurance operations is limited, as the unbundled insurance component of those products is insigni cant in comparison to the rest of the Old Mutual Group.
The Group effectively manages its insurance risks through the following mechanisms: the diversi cation of business over several classes of insurance and a number of geographical segments and large numbers of uncorrelated individual risks, by which the Group seeks to reduce variability in loss experience: the maintenance and use of sophisticated management information systems, which provide current data on the risks to which the business is exposed: actuarial models, which use the above information to calculate premiums and monitor claims patterns.
Past experience and statistical methods are used: guidelines for concluding insurance contracts and assuming insurance risks.
These include underwriting principles and product pricing procedures: reinsurance, which is used to limit the Groups exposure to large single claims and catastrophes.
When selecting a reinsurer, consideration is given to those companies that provide high security.
In order to assess this, rating information from both public and private sources is used: and the mix of assets, which is driven by the nature and term of the insurance liabilities.
The management of assets and liabilities is closely monitored to ensure that there are suf cient interest bearing assets to match the guaranteed portion of liabilities.
Hedging instruments are used at times to limit exposure to equity market and interest rate movements.
Page 259 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 48 Insurance risk continued b Terms and conditions of long-term insurance business South Africa and United States The terms and conditions attaching to insurance contracts determine the level of insurance risk accepted by the Group.
The following tables outline the general form of terms and conditions that apply to contracts sold in each category of business, and the nature of the risk incurred by the Group.
South Africa Policyholder participation in Category Essential terms Main risks Policyholder guarantees investment return 1 Individual Life Mortality morbidity rates may be repriced Mortality, morbidity Some investment performance, Varies Flexi business regular premium contracts cover and annuity guarantees with cover 1 Conventional Charges xed at inception and cannot Mortality, morbidity Some investment performance Varies with cover be changed and annuity guarantees Greenlight Charges xed at inception and cannot Mortality, morbidity, Rates xed for a speci ed number None be changed for a speci ed term expense of years Group Charges xed at inception and cannot Mortality including Rates xed for a speci ed number None Schemes be changed for a speci ed number HIV AIDS, expense of years funeral cover of years Employee Rates are annually renewable Mortality, morbidity No signi cant guarantees, except None Bene ts for PHI claims in payment for which Group bene t payment schedule Assurance is guaranteed Non-pro t Regular bene t payments guaranteed Mortality, investment Bene t payment schedule None annuity in return for consideration is guaranteed With-pro t Regular bene t payments participating Investment Underlying pricing interest rate Yes annuity in pro ts in return for consideration is guaranteed.
Declared bonuses cannot be reduced 1 The extent of the Groups discretion as to the allocation of investment return to policyholders varies based on the type of contract.
Where the contracts are pure risk type, there is no sharing of investment returns.
For other contracts, investment return is attributed to the policyholder.
Declared bonuses may be either vesting and or non-vesting in which case they can be removed in adverse circumstances.
Smoothed bonus products constitute a signi cant proportion of the business.
Particular attention is paid to ensuring that the declaration of bonuses is done in a responsible manner, such that suf cient reserves are retained for bonus smoothing purposes.
Investment returns not distributed after deducting charges are credited to bonus smoothing reserves, which are used to support subsequent bonus declarations.
Page 260 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 48 Insurance risk continued b Terms and conditions of long-term insurance business South Africa and United States continued United States Policyholder participation in Category Essential terms Main risks Policyholder guarantees investment return Life term Renewable term products offering Mortality, expense Premium guarantees from 1 to 30 None coverage for level periods ranging from years, return of premium guarantees 1 to 30 years Universal life Flexible and xed premium interest Mortality, expense, Secondary non-lapse guarantees Yes, through sensitive life insurance with cash value investment max of 15 years or to age 95 : the crediting build up cost of insurance mortality charge rate guarantees Equity Single and exible premium accumulation Mortality, investment, Minimum caps, maximum spread Yes, through indexed annuities with upside potential of equity hedging guarantees, maximum spread, the index annuities indexed returns on their account value minimum interest guarantees Fixed deferred Single and exible premium Mortality, investment Minimum guaranteed accumulation Limited annuities accumulation annuities rates and annuitisation rates crediting rates are reset at speci ed intervals Equity indexed Flexible premium interest sensitive whole Mortality, investment, Secondary non-lapse guarantees: Yes, through universal life life products with upside potential of hedging cost of insurance mortality charge the index and equity indexed returns on their account guarantees: minimum caps: crediting rates value and a xed account option maximum spread guarantees are reset at speci ed intervals Immediate Regular bene t payments guaranteed Mortality, investment Bene t payment schedule None Payout in return for consideration is guaranteed Annuities Variable Accumulation annuities with policyholder Mortality, investment, Minimum guaranteed death bene t Yes, through Annuities investments in separate accounts and hedging and minimum guaranteed separate a xed account option accumulation bene t which may Accounts and include a minimum rate of return crediting rates or waiver of surrender charges are reset at speci ed intervals In addition to the speci c risks identi ed above, the Group is subject to the risk that policyholders discontinue the insurance policy, through lapse or surrender.
Page 261 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 48 Insurance risk continued c Management of insurance risks long-term business The table below summarises the variety of risks to which the Groups long-term insurance business is exposed, and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate these risks.
Risk fide nition Risk management Underwriting Misalignment of policyholders to the appropriate pricing basis Experience is closely monitored.
For universal life or impact of anti-selection, resulting in a loss business, mortality rates can be reset.
Underwriting limits, health requirements, spread of risks and training of underwriters all mitigate the risk.
HIV AIDS Impact of HIV AIDS on mortality rates and critical illness cover Impact of HIV AIDS is mitigated wherever possible by writing products that allow for repricing on a regular basis or are priced to allow for the expected effects of HIV AIDS.
Tests for HIV AIDS and other tests for lives insured above certain values are conducted.
A negative test result is a prerequisite for acceptance at standard rates.
Medical Possible increase in annuity costs due to policyholders For non-pro t annuities, improvements to mortality developments living longer are allowed for in pricing and valuation.
For with-pro t annuity business, the mortality risk is carried by policyholders and any mortality pro t or loss is re ected in the bonuses declared.
Changing Lower swap curves and higher volatilities cause investment A discretionary margin is added to the value of financial guarantee reserves to increase guarantees, determined on a market-consistent market stochastic basis and included in current reserves.
conditions A partial hedge is in place South Africa.
Fewer and lower guarantees are typically provided on new business South Africa.
Certain guarantees are reinsured United States.
Policyholder Selection of more expensive options, or lapse and re-entry when Experience is closely monitored, and policyholder behaviour premium rates are falling, or termination of policy, which may behaviour is allowed for in pricing and valuation.
cause the sale of assets at inopportune times Catastrophe Natural and non-natural disasters, including war terrorism, Catastrophe stop loss excess of loss reinsurance could result in increased mortality risk and payouts on policies treaty in place which covers claims from one incident occurring within a speci ed period between a range of speci ed limits.
Policy lapse A policyholder option to terminate the policy, which may cause the Experience is closely monitored, and policyholder sale of assets at inopportune times.
This creates the risk of capital behaviour is allowed for in pricing and valuation.
losses and or reinvestment risk if market yields have decreased Many of the above risks are concentrated, either geographically in the case of catastrophe or by line of business for example, medical developments, HIV AIDS.
The Group, through diversi cation in the types of business it writes and its geographic spread, attempts to mitigate this concentration of risk.
See Segment Analysis, in the preceding section, for illustration of this.
Page 262 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 48 Insurance risk continued d Sensitivity analysis long-term business Changes in key assumptions used to value insurance contracts would result in increases or decreases to the insurance contract liabilities recorded, with a corresponding impact on pro t loss and or shareholders equity.
The effect of a change in assumption is mitigated by the following factors: offset partial or full through Deferred Acquisition Costs DAC amortisation in the case of US business: the effect of locked-in assumptions for payout annuities and term insurance under US GAAP accounting, where assumptions underlying the insurance contract liabilities are not changed until liabilities are not adequate after re ecting current best estimates: and offset to the bonus stabilisation reserve in the case of mortality assumption changes for with-pro t annuity business in South Africa.
The impact on Group equity resulting from a change in insurance contract liabilities or DAC balances at 31 December 2008 for long-term business has been estimated as follows negative impact shown as positive gure : Change South Africa US Assumption % m m Mortality and morbidity rates assurance 10 187 11 Mortality rates annuities -10 41 3 Discontinuance rates 10 9 23 Expenses maintenance 10 50 23 The insurance contract liabilities recorded for the South African business are also impacted by the valuation discount rate assumed.
Lowering this rate by 1 percent would result in a net increase to the insurance contract liabilities, and decrease to pro t, of 66 million 2007: 41 million.
There is no impact for the US businesses as the valuation rate is locked-in.
South Africa The changes in insurance contract liabilities shown are calculated using the speci ed increase or decrease to the rates, with no change in charges paid by policyholders.
The valuation interest rate sensitivity re ects a change in the valuation interest rates without any corresponding change in investment returns or in the expense in ation rate.
It should be noted that where the assets and liabilities of a product are closely matched e. g. non-pro t annuity business, the net effect has been shown since the assets and liabilities move in parallel.
United States The assumption changes have relatively little impact on the US net IFRS insurance contract liabilities or DAC on life and immediate annuities, as assumptions are generally locked-in.
For universal life and deferred annuities, assumptions supporting the Present Value Future Pro ts PVFP Deferred Acquisition Costs DAC amortisation are periodically updated for actual experience.
Each of these assumption changes would trigger a DAC unlocking.
The assumption changes speci ed do not approach the levels necessary to trigger a change in liabilities or DAC.
e Guarantees and options long-term business Many of the insurance contracts issued by the Group contain guarantees and options to policyholders, the ultimate liability for which will depend signi cantly on the number of policyholders exercising their options and on market and investment conditions applying at that time.
South Africa Certain life assurance contracts include the payment of guaranteed values to policyholders on maturity, death, disability or survival.
The published liabilities include the provision for both the intrinsic and time-value of the options and guarantees.
The time-value of options and guarantees has been valued using a market-consistent stochastic asset model that is in keeping with the applicable professional guidance notes issued by the Actuarial Society of South Africa ASSA, PGN 110 in particular.
The options and guarantees that could have a material effect on the amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash ows are described below.
Page 263 Financials NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 48 Insurance risk continued e Guarantees and options long-term business continued South Africa continued Product category Description of options and guarantees Individual business Death, disability, point and or maturity guarantees A closed block of unit-linked type and smoothed bonus business with an underlying minimum growth rate guarantee 4.28 percent per annum for life and endowment business and 4.78 percent per annum for retirement annuity business, and smoothed bonus business with vested bonuses, applicable when calculating death, disability and maturity claims.
A small block of smoothed bonus savings business in Group Schemes that has death guarantees of premiums net of fees plus 4.25 percent per annum investment return.
Guaranteed annuity options Retirement annuities sold prior to June 1997 contain guaranteed annuity options, whereby the policyholder has an option to exchange the full retirement proceeds for a minimum level of annuity income at maturity.
Group business Vested bonuses in respect of pre-retirement There is a signi cant pre-retirement savings smoothed bonus portfolio.
Vested with-pro ts business bonuses affect the calculation of bene t payments when a member exits from the scheme as the face value is paid out.
If, however, a scheme terminates, the lower of face and market value is paid out and the vested bonuses are not guaranteed.
United States Product category Description of options and guarantees Required shock to bring out-of-the-money policies in-the-money Death, disability, Crediting rates declared for the xed deferred annuity block of 24 percent of policies are currently in-the-money and surrender point business vest fully.
They are subject to a minimum crediting rate being credited the minimum rate.
A 300 basis points and or maturity which is speci ed in the contract.
Minimum surrender values are drop in interest rates would bring 79 percent of policies guarantees determined by this rate.
Equity indexed annuities offer minimum crediting rates on the The minimum surrender values of 17 percent of xed portion of the product, minimum surrender values based on policies are currently in-the-money.
A year of at this and credit equity participation annually as a percentage of equity markets with no equity credits would bring equity growth subject to a maximum percent.
This equity an additional 24 percent in-the-money.
Two years participation, which is subject to a minimum of 0 percent therefore of no equity credits would result in 26 percent vests annually.
of the portfolio being in-the-money.
The equity exposure is hedged using a hedging strategy.
The variable annuities offered to off-shore customers through Old Mutual Bermuda can offer minimum death bene t guarantees.
The minimum death bene t on 96.6 percent Death bene ts are subject to a minimum of the sum invested or of policies is currently in-the-money.
These risks value at any anniversary date if greater.
account value on maturity, and at certain points in time, is also available on most policies the most common being 5 and The minimum accumulation bene t on 92.3 percent 10 year guarantees.
of policies is currently in-the-money.
The universal life policies specify a minimum crediting rate The minimum rate is currently being credited on to accumulate account balances.
Guaranteed All deferred annuities offer a guaranteed annuitisation option The extent to which the policies are currently annuity options on maturity.
The rates are set conservatively and typically in-the-money is negligible.
have very low utilisation as customers in the United States value the choice inherent in a lump-sum payment.
No-lapse Certain universal life contracts contain a feature that 17 percent of policies are currently in-the-money.
guarantees guarantees that the contract will continue, even if values This risk is reinsured.
would otherwise be insuf cient, provided the customer has paid at least a stated amount of premium.
Page 264 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 48 Insurance risk continued f General insurance risks and sensitivities Mutual & Federal writes the following types of business within its commercial, risk finance and personal divisions: Commercial Risk finance Personal Fire Accident Personal accident Motor Engineering Crop Marine Credit Underwriting guidelines are designed to ensure that underwritten risks are well diversi ed, and that terms and conditions, including premium rates, appropriately re ect the risk.
Reinsurance plays an extremely important role in the management of risk and exposure at Mutual & Federal.
The Group makes use of a combination of proportional and non-proportional reinsurance to limit the impact of both individual and event losses and to provide insurance capacity.
Involvement in any property catastrophe loss is limited to approximately 5 million for any one event and the level of catastrophe cover purchased is based on estimated maximum loss scenarios, in keeping with accepted market norms.
Provisional: This is based on a limit of R75 million for one event at an estimated exchange rate of R15 to the pound.
General insurance risk includes the following risks: occurrence risk the possibility that the number of insured events will differ from those expected: severity risk the possibility that the costs of the events will differ from those expected: and development risk the possibility that changes may occur in the amount of an insurers obligation at the end of a contract period.
An increase of 10 percent in the average cost of claims would require the recognition of an additional loss of 37 million 32 million net of reinsurance.
Similarly, an increase of 10 percent in the ultimate number of claims would result in an additional loss of 37 million 32 million net of reinsurance.
The majority of the Groups general insurance contracts are classi ed as short-tailed, meaning that any claim is settled within a year after the loss date.
This contrasts with the long-tailed classes where the claims costs take longer to materialise and settle.
The Groups long-tailed business is generally limited to personal accident, third party motor liability and some engineering classes.
In total the long-tail business comprises less than 5 percent of an average years claim costs.
49 Post balance sheet events On 2 March 2009 the Group announced the sale, by its group subsidiary, OM Group UK Limited, of the Groups interests in the Old Mutual Australia group.
The sale is expected to complete on 6 March 2009.
Page 265 Financials FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY COMPANY BALANCE SHEET At 31 December 2008 At At 31 December 31 December m m Notes 2008 2007 Assets Investments in Group subsidiaries 8 7,595 4,792 Investments in associated undertakings 9 26 25 Investments and securities 1 39 45 Other assets including inter-company 2 2,943 2,943 Derivative financial instruments assets 3 197 72 Cash and cash equivalents 3 41 Total assets 10,803 7,918 Liabilities Borrowed funds 4 1,037 1,134 Provisions 5 20 23 Other liabilities including inter-company 6 4,679 1,745 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 3 91 31 Total liabilities 5,827 2,933 Net assets 4,976 4,985 Shareholders equity Equity attributable to equity holders 4,976 4,985 The Companys financial statements on pages 266 to 278 were approved by the Board of Directors on 4 March 2009.
Julian Roberts Philip Broadley Chief Executive Group Finance Director Page 266 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT At 31 December 2008 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Cash ows from operating activities Pro t before tax 411 423 Capital gains included in investment income 6 11 Recognition of impairment losses 6 Fair value movements on derivatives and borrowed funds 489 85 Foreign exchange movements on assets and liabilities 308 82 Other non-cash amounts in pro t 1 1 Non-cash movements in pro t before tax 174 3 Other operating assets and liabilities 6 5 Changes in working capital 6 5 Net cash in ow from operating activities 243 431 Cash ows from investing activities Proceeds from sale and maturity of investments 95 Acquisition of interests in subsidiaries 3 100 Purchase of interest in associates and joint ventures 1 6 Other investing cash ows 95 Net cash out ow in ow from investing activities 4 84 Cash ows from nancing activities External interest received 91 63 External interest paid 162 112 Inter-company interest received 1 1 Inter-company interest paid 33 44 Dividends paid to: Ordinary shareholders of the Company 214 228 Preferred shareholders 43 40 Net proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 10 12 Net purchase of treasury shares 5 6 Redemption of own shares 175 176 Other debt issued 32 181 Loan nancing received from paid to Group companies 228 158 Net cash out ow from nancing activities 270 507 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 31 8 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 7 6 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period 41 39 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 3 41 At 31 December 2008 and 2007 all cash and cash equivalents were in the form of cash balances.
During the year the Company recorded total dividend income from subsidiary undertakings of 343 million 2007: 470 million, of which only cash dividends from Skandia UK Holdings Limited of 55 million were received during the year ended 31 December 2008 2007: Nil.
Page 267 Financials FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY For the year ended 31 December 2008 Number of Perpetual shares preferred issued and Share Share Other Retained callable 1 fully paid capital premium reserves earnings securities Total Year ended 31 December 2008 Millions m m m m m m Attributable to equity holders of the Company at beginning of the year 5,510 551 757 2,554 435 688 4,985 Pro t for the year 368 43 411 Total recognised income and expense for the year 368 43 411 Dividends for the year 214 43 257 Shares repurchased in the buyback programme 175 175 Net purchase of treasury shares 5 5 Issue of share capital by the Company 5 5 Exercise of share options 6 1 4 5 Fair value of equity settled share options 7 7 Attributable to equity holders of the Company at end of the year 5,516 552 766 2,561 409 688 4,976 Number of Perpetual shares preferred issued and Share Share Other Retained callable 1 fully paid capital premium reserves earnings securities Total Year ended 31 December 2007 Millions m m m m m m Attributable to equity holders of the Company at beginning of the year 5,501 550 746 2,544 430 688 4,958 Pro t for the year 416 40 456 Total recognised income and expense for the year 416 40 456 Dividends for the year 228 40 268 Shares repurchased in the buy back programme 176 176 Net purchase of treasury shares 7 7 Issue of share capital by the Company 3 3 Exercise of share options 9 1 8 9 Fair value of equity settled share options 10 10 Attributable to equity holders of the Company at end of the year 5,510 551 757 2,554 435 688 4,985 1 Included within retained earnings of 409 million 2007: 435 million are distributable reserves of 158 million 2007: 334 million.
At At 31 December 31 December m m Other reserves 2008 2007 Merger reserve 2,532 2,532 Share-based payment reserve 29 22 Attributable to equity holders of the Company at end of the year 2,561 2,554 Page 268 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 1 Investments and securities At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Unlisted equity security at fair value through income statement 38 44 Other 1 1 Total investments and securities 39 45 Investments and securities are regarded as current and non-current assets based on the intention with which the financial assets are held as well as their contractual maturity pro le.
Of the amounts shown above, 38 million 2007: 44 million are regarded as current and 1 million 2007: 1 million are regarded as non-current.
2 Other assets At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Other receivables 10 11 Corporation tax 27 27 Accrued interest and rent 65 52 Other prepayments and accrued income 2 2 Amounts owed by Group undertakings: Current 2 Non-current 2,839 2,849 Total other assets 2,943 2,943 Page 269 Financials FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 3 Derivative financial instruments The following tables provide a detailed breakdown of the contractual or notional amounts and the fair values of the Companys derivative financial instruments outstanding at the year end.
These instruments allow the Company and its customers to transfer, modify or reduce their foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The Company undertakes transactions involving derivative financial instruments with other financial institutions.
Management has established limits commensurate with the credit quality of the institutions with whom it deals, and manages the resulting exposures such that a default by any individual counterparty is unlikely to have a materially adverse impact on the Company.
Notional principals Fair values Positive Negative values values Assets Liabilities At 31 December 2008 m m m m Exchange rate contracts Swaps 602 356 149 57 Forwards 205 544 7 34 807 900 156 91 Interest rate contracts Swaps 1,041 41 Total 1,848 900 197 91 Notional principals Fair values Positive Negative values values Assets Liabilities At 31 December 2007 m m m m Exchange rate contracts Swaps 508 318 64 16 Forwards 273 7 508 591 64 23 Interest rate contracts Swaps 569 300 8 8 Total 1,077 891 72 31 The contractual maturities of the derivatives held are as follows: More than No Balance 3 months Between contractual sheet Less than less than 1 and 5 More than maturity amount 3 months 1 year years 5 years date Total At 31 December 2008 m m m m m m m Derivative financial liabilities 91 34 57 91 | More than No Balance 3 months Between contractual sheet Less than less than 1 and 5 More than maturity amount 3 months 1 year years 5 years date Total At 31 December 2007 m m m m m m m Derivative financial liabilities 31 1 6 24 31 | Page 270 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 4 Borrowed funds At At 31 December 31 December m m Notes 2008 2007 Senior debt securities and term loan 4 i 496 324 Subordinated debt securities 4 ii 541 810 Total borrowed funds 1,037 1,134 At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Fair valued through income statement 884 1,090 Amortised cost 153 44 Total borrowed funds 1,037 1,134 i Senior debt securities and term loan At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Floating rate notes 49 119 Fixed rate notes 153 44 Revolving credit facility 294 161 Total senior debt securities and term loan 496 324 The contractual maturities of the senior debt securities and term loan are as follows: Greater than 1 year and Less than less than Greater than 1 year 5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2008 m m m m Floating rate notes 7 42 49 Fixed rate notes 96 57 153 Revolving credit facility 294 294 Total senior debt securities and term loan 103 393 496 At 31 December 2007 Floating rate notes 43 76 119 Fixed rate notes 29 15 44 Revolving credit facility 161 161 Total senior debt securities and term loan 233 91 324 The Company has a 1,250 million five-year multi-currency revolving credit facility, which had an original maturity date of September 2010.
On 18 August 2007, syndicate banks agreed to extend the maturity date of 1,232 million of the facility until September 2012.
During the year, the Company repaid a $150 million oating rate note and issued a 100 million Eurobond note.
Page 271 Financials FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 4 Borrowed funds continued ii Subordinated debt securities At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 1 300 million repayable 21 January 2016 5.0% 239 291 2 750 million repayable 18 January 2017 4.5% 302 519 Total subordinated debt securities 541 810 1 This bond, issued on 20 January 2006, has a maturity date of 21 January 2016 and pays a coupon of 5.0 percent to 21 January 2011 and six month LIBOR plus 1.13 percent thereafter.
The coupon on the bonds was swapped into a oating rate of six month STIBOR plus 0.50 percent.
The Company has the option to repay the bonds at par on 21 January 2011 and at six monthly intervals thereafter.
2 This bond, issued on 16 January 2007, has a maturity date of 18 January 2017 and pays a coupon of 4.5 percent to 17 January 2012 and six month EURIBOR plus 0.96 percent thereafter.
The principal and coupon on the bond were swapped equally into Sterling and US Dollars with coupons of six month LIBOR plus 0.34 percent and six month US LIBOR plus 0.31 percent respectively.
The Company has the option to repay the bonds at par on 17 January 2012 and at six monthly intervals thereafter.
5 Provisions At At 31 December 31 December m m Notes 2008 2007 Post employment bene ts 7 20 23 6 Other liabilities At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Accruals 98 87 Amounts owed to Group undertakings: Current 2,012 26 Non-current 2,549 1,610 Other liabilities 20 22 Total other liabilities 4,679 1,745 Page 272 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 7 Post employment bene ts The Company holds a provision in respect of the Old Mutual Staff Pension Fund fide ned Bene t pension scheme, which provides bene ts based on final pensionable pay for members within the Group.
The assets of the scheme are held in separate trustee administered funds.
Pension costs and contributions relating to the scheme are assessed in accordance with the advice of quali ed actuaries.
Actuarial advice con rms that the current level of contributions payable to the scheme, together with existing assets, are adequate to secure members bene ts over the remaining lives of participating employees.
The scheme is reviewed on a triennial basis.
During the year 4 employees 2007: 2 were directly employed by the Company.
The costs for these Directors and ex-Directors are disclosed within the Remuneration Report on pages 118 to 134.
Pension plans Liability for fide ned bene t obligations m m Year to 31 December 2008 2007 Change in projected bene t obligation Projected bene t obligation at beginning of the year 56 56 Interest cost on bene t obligation 3 3 Actuarial gains 4 3 Projected bene t obligation at end of the year 55 56 Change in plan assets Plan assets at fair value at beginning of the year 37 32 Actual return on plan assets 6 2 Company contributions 4 3 Plan assets at fair value at end of the year 35 37 Net liability recognised in balance sheet Funded status of plan 20 19 Unrecognised actuarial gains 4 Net amount recognised in balance sheet 20 23 Pension plans Expense recognised in the income statement m m Year to 31 December 2008 2007 Expected return on plan assets 2 1 Interest costs 3 3 Total 1 2 Pension plans Principal actuarial assumptions % % Year to 31 December 2008 2007 Discount rate 5.50 5.50 Future salary increases 4.10 4.65 Price in ation 3.10 3.40 Pensions in payment and deferred pensions in ation 3.10 3.40 Pension plans Plan asset allocation % % Year to 31 December 2008 2007 Equity securities 34 61 Debt securities 62 36 Other investments 4 3 Page 273 Financials FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 8 Principal subsidiaries At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Balance at beginning of the year 4,792 4,682 Acquisitions 1,844 100 Additions 959 10 Balance at end of the year 7,595 4,792 On 27 February 2008, the Company completed the purchase of the entire share capital of Skandia UK Holdings Limited for a total consideration of 1,844 million.
During the year the Company made further cash investments in Skandia Europe and Latin America Holdings Limited on 4 April 2008 and 28 May 2008 of SEK 58 million and $USD of 0.3 million.
On 21 October 2008, the Company purchased one Ordinary share valued at 1 in Old Mutual Holdings Limited.
On 27 October 2008, the Company purchased one Ordinary share valued at 26,656 in Sandlord Limited.
On 10 November 2008, the Company purchased 100 Ordinary B shares in Pointspirit for a total consideration of 100.
On 12 December 2008, the Company increased its investment in the Ordinary share capital of OM Group UK by 950 million via a reduction in loan nancing.
Also, included within additions is the Companys investment in subsidiary undertakings in respect of movements on the share based payments reserve 6 million.
The following companies were dissolved during the year: Old Mutual Properties Limited 6 May 2008 : Old Mutual Finance Cayman Islands Limited 27 August 2008 : and Old Mutual UK Nominees Ltd 18 November 2008.
The Company holds the following interests in Group companies: At 31 December 2008 Country of incorporation Class of shares % interest held Commsale 2000 Ltd England and Wales Ordinary 100 Constantia Insurance Company Guernsey Limited Guernsey Ordinary 100  Skandia publ Sweden Ordinary 100 Millpencil Limited England and Wales Ordinary 100 OM Group UK Ltd England and Wales Ordinary 100 Old Mutual Asset Solutions Ltd England and Wales Ordinary 100 Old Mutual Capital Funding Jersey Limited Jersey Ordinary 100 Old Mutual Finance No.
2 Limited England and Wales Ordinary 50 Old Mutual Finance No.
4 Limited England and Wales Ordinary 100 Old Mutual Holdings Limited England and Wales Ordinary 100 Papercoast Limited England and Wales Ordinary 100 Sandlord Ltd England and Wales Ordinary 100 Selestia Holdings Limited England and Wales Ordinary 100 Skandia London Ltd England and Wales Ordinary 100 Skandia Europe and Latin America Holdings Limited England and Wales Ordinary 100 Skandia UK Holdings Limited England and Wales Ordinary 100 9 Investments in associated undertakings The company holds the following interest in associated undertakings: Country of % At 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007 operation interest held Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life Insurance Limited India 26 Page 274 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 10 Commitments and guarantees At At 31 December 31 December m m 2008 2007 Commitments 532 252 The commitments relate to letters of credit issued in support of the operations of a subsidiary company.
Any liability arising from these letters of credit would be recovered from the subsidiary company.
In February 2008, the Company issued a guarantee to a third party over a subsidiarys Old Mutual Bermuda obligations under the reinsurance contracts relating to the offshore investment products sold by a third party.
The maximum payment under this guarantee is $250 million.
This guarantee is accounted for as an insurance contract and payments will only arise should Old Mutual Bermuda be unable to meet its obligations under the relevant reinsurance contracts as they fall due.
11 Related parties Old Mutual plc enters into transactions with its subsidiaries in the normal course of business.
These are principally related to funding of the Groups businesses and head of ce functions.
Details of loans, including balances due from to the Company and terms and conditions thereon are set out below.
Disclosures in respect of the key management personnel of the Company are included in the Group related parties disclosures.
There are no transactions entered into by the Company with associated undertakings.
Balance due from to Balance sheet information m At 31 December 2008 Subsidiaries: 1 OM Group UK Limited 2,504 Primemajor 4 2 Skandia companies 1,933 3 Old Mutual International companies 4 4 Global Edge Technologies Pty Limited 1 5 Bermuda Holding companies 430 6 Old Mutual SA companies 922 7 Old Mutual Financial Services companies 240 8 Old Mutual Business Services Limited 95 9 Old Mutual Capital Funding L. P. 501 Constantia Insurance Company Guernsey Limited 2 10 Old Mutual Netherlands BV 66 11 Pointspirit 36 Nedbank companies OMLA Holdings Limited Sandlord Limited 10 Other related parties: 12 Fairbairn Trust Company Limited 30 1 The loan with OM Group UK Limited includes loan advances of $2,051 million, 700 million and A$38 million 2007: $2,115 million, 1,184 million and A$32 million.
The Dollar facility expires on 30 September 2010, whilst the Sterling facility expires on 30 June 2010 and both facilities terms are at LIBOR 0.50 percent.
The Australian Dollar facility expires 30 November 2011 and interest is charged at 8.60 percent per annum.
In addition, the balance also includes a subordinated loan of 350 million 2007: 350 million, with a term agreement of 6.75 percent, switching to oating rate LIBOR 2.48 percent after 12 years.
2 The balance with Skandia companies includes two loan notes with Skandia UK Limited, totalling 1,844 million, where the agreement states that interest is LIBOR 0.30 percent margin and is due to mature on 27 February 2013.
The Company has a term loan agreement with Skandia Insurance Company Ltd where the agreement states that interest is STIBOR 0.50 percent margin and is due to mature on 30 January 2009.
In addition, the balance also includes a 500 million revolving credit facility with Skandia Europe and Latin America Holdings Limited, where the agreement states that interest be received at LIBOR 0.15 percent.
This facility is due to mature on 7 December 2012.
3 The balance with Old Mutual International companies includes one contingent loan facility of 4 million 2007: 4 million where the agreement states that no interest is charged and no maturity date is set in place.
4 The subordinated loan with Global Edge Technologies Pty Limited of R6.5 million 2007: R6.5 million.
There is no interest charged in respect to this advance as it has been fully provided for in the books of Old Mutual plc.
5 The balance with Bermuda Holding companies includes two oating rate notes totalling $604 million.
Interest charged is USD LIBOR 0.45 percent margin and USD LIBOR 8.45 percent on the $82 million note and $522 million note respectively.
The notes mature on 28 April 2013 and 1 December 2013 respectively.
6 The balance with Old Mutual SA companies includes two oating rate notes totalling $1,261 million 2007: $1,018 million.
Interest charged is USD LIBOR 0.45 percent margin and USD LIBOR 2.50 percent margin on the $1,037 million note and $224 million note respectively.
The notes mature on 28 April 2013 and 17 December 2013 respectively.
7 The balance with Old Mutual Financial Services companies includes long-term loan advances with no maturity dates of 197 million, on which interest is charged at the Bank of England base rate and 43 million, on which no interest is charged.
8 The loan with Old Mutual Business Limited represents a long-term loan advance with no maturity date of 95 million, on which no interest is charged.
9 The loan with Old Mutual Capital Funding L. P. is a $750 million subordinated cumulative perpetual note which bears interest at 8.00 percent per annum payable quarterly.
The notes have no mandatory maturity dates.
10 The loan with Old Mutual Netherlands BV is made up of one discount note totalling 65 million 2007: nil which matures on 3 April 2009.
Interest is charged at LIBOR 6.50 percent margin.
11 The loan with Pointspirit is a 500 million revolving credit facility where the agreement states that interest be charged at LIBOR 0.15 percent.
This facility is due to mature on 17 May 2009.
12 This represents amounts paid to the Fairbairn Trust Company Limited in respect of an ESOP for the purchase of the Companys own shares.
Page 275 Financials FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 11 Related parties continued Balance due from to Balance sheet information m At 31 December 2007 Subsidiaries: OM Group UK Limited 2,634 Primemajor 4 Skandia companies 209 Old Mutual International companies 4 Global Edge Technologies Pty Limited 1 Bermuda Holding companies 306 Old Mutual SA companies 517 Old Mutual Financial Services companies 224 Old Mutual Business Services Limited 56 Old Mutual Capital Funding L. P. 377 Constantia Insurance Company Guernsey Limited 1 8 Pointspirit 108 Nedbank companies 25 OMLA Holdings Limited 22 Sandlord Limited 1 Other related parties: Fairbairn Trust Company Limited 25 Other Ordinary amounts Interest dividends received received received paid Income statement information m m m 2008 Subsidiaries 5 343 68 Other Ordinary amounts Interest dividends received received received paid Income statement information m m m 2007 Subsidiaries 97 470 48 Page 276 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 12 Financial risk The Company is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets, financial liabilities and inter-company balances.
The most important components of financial risk for the Company are interest rate risk, currency risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
These risks arise from open positions in interest rate, currency and equity products, all of which are exposed to general and speci c market movements.
The principal risk the Company faces is currency risk.
The Companys functional and presentational currency is GBP, whereas the functional currencies of its principal subsidiaries are South African Rand, US Dollar, Swedish Krona and Euro.
a Capital risk management Old Mutual plc is the holding company of the Group and is responsible for the raising and allocation of capital in line with the Groups capital management policies set out in note 47 to the consolidated financial statements and for ensuring the operational funding and regulatory capital needs of the holding company and its subsidiaries are met at all times.
b Currency risk The Company is exposed to effects of uctuations in the prevailing foreign currency exchange rates on its financial position and cash ows.
The principal foreign currency risk arises from the fact that the Companys functional currency is GBP, whereas the functional currency of its principal operations is South African Rand, US Dollar, Swedish Krona and Euro.
The Company hedges some of this currency translation risk through currency swaps, currency borrowings and forward foreign exchange rate contracts.
Exchange rate exposures are managed within approved policy parameters utilising forward exchange contracts and currency swap agreements.
The table below summarises the Companys exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk: ReclassGBP ZAR USD Euro SEK Other i cation Total At 31 December 2008 m m m m m m m m Assets Investments in associated undertakings 26 26 1 Derivative financial instruments assets 11 13 24 149 197 Cash and cash equivalents 3 3 Investments and securities 39 39 Other nonfinancial assets 7,745 1,408 50 1,311 24 10,538 Total assets 7,821 1,421 74 1,311 27 149 10,803 Liabilities 2 Other borrowed funds 76 420 153 296 92 1,037 3 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 25 7 2 57 91 Other nonfinancial liabilities 2,530 1,847 279 35 8 4,699 Total liabilities 2,606 25 2,274 432 333 8 149 5,827 ReclassGBP ZAR USD Euro SEK Other i cation Total At 31 December 2007 m m m m m m m m Assets Investments in associated undertakings 25 25 Derivative financial instruments assets 29 33 4 6 72 Cash and cash equivalents 18 15 8 41 Investments and securities 45 45 Other nonfinancial assets 5,108 1,111 36 1,466 14 7,735 Total assets 5,225 15 1,152 40 1,466 14 6 7,918 Liabilities Other borrowed funds 272 359 43 470 10 1,134 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 8 5 1 1 16 31 Other nonfinancial liabilities 484 1 1,220 36 27 1,768 Total liabilities 764 6 1,580 79 498 6 2,933 1 The derivative financial instruments of 149 million 2007: 6 million represent currency hedges for borrowed funds and so have been reclassi ed and netted against USD borrowed funds.
2 The totals of 76 million GBP 2007: 272 million, 420 million USD 2007: 359 million and 296 million SEK 2007: 470 million of borrowed funds have been disclosed as net of hedges in derivative financial instruments of 114 million 2007: 6 million, 35 million 2007: nil and 57 million 2007: 16 million respectively.
3 The derivative financial instrument of 57 million 2007: 16 million represents a currency hedge for borrowed funds and so have been reclassed and netted against SEK borrowed funds.
A 10 percent deterioration in the values of the major currencies shown above in relation to GBP would result in an increase in the Companys equity holders funds of 23 million 2007: decrease of 46 million.
Page 277 Financials FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued 12 Financial risk continued c Credit risk The Company is principally exposed to credit risk through cash at bank and the ability of the subsidiaries to repay debts, which it holds to back shareholder liabilities.
Credit risk is managed by placing limits on exposures to any single counterparty, or groups of counterparties and to geographical and industry segments.
Credit risk is monitored with reference to established credit rating agencies with limits placed on exposure to below investment grade holdings.
The following table analyses the credit rating Standard & Poors or equivalent by investment grade of financial assets bearing credit risk: Subinvestment Investment Grade Grade BB and AAA to BBB lower Not rated Total At 31 December 2008 m m m m Investments in associated undertakings 26 26 Derivative financial instruments assets 197 197 Investments and securities 39 39 Other assets including inter-company 2,943 2,943 Cash and cash equivalents 3 3 Financial assets bearing credit risk 200 3,008 3,208 At 31 December 2007 Investments in associated undertakings 25 25 Derivative financial instruments assets 72 72 Investments and securities 45 45 Other assets including inter-company 2,943 2,943 Cash and cash equivalents 41 41 Financial assets bearing credit risk 113 3,013 3,126 d Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that uctuating interest rates will unfavourably affect the Companys earnings and the value of its assets, liabilities and capital.
The Company employs currency and interest rate swap transactions to mitigate against the impact of changes in the fair values of its borrowed funds.
Details of the arrangements in place are shown in the Group Accounts note 28 Hedge accounting.
e Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that cash may not be available to pay obligations when due at a reasonable cost.
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, which has built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Companys short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The Company has net current liabilities of 2,167 million 2007: 12 million, all of which represent liabilities to other group companies or finance vehicles of loans that often have short maturity dates or embedded call options.
The Company manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash ows of both the Company and its subsidiaries.
Page 278 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
