STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RELATION TO THE OLD MUTUAL MARKET CONSISTENT EMBEDDED VALUE BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION The directors of Old Mutual plc have chosen to prepare supplementary information on a market consistent embedded value basis.
Old Mutuals methodology adopts the Market Consistent Embedded Value Principles Copyright Stichting CFO Forum Foundation 2008 issued in June 2008 by the CFO Forum the Principles as the basis for the methodology.
The Principles have been fully complied with at 31 December 2008 for all businesses with the exception of the use of an adjusted risk free rate due to current market conditions for US Life Onshore business as described more fully below and in the basis of preparation.
The Principles were fully complied with for all businesses in respect of the 31 December 2007 restated MCEV gures.
In preparing the Old Mutual Market Consistent Embedded Value basis Old Mutual MCEV supplementary information, the directors have: prepared the supplementary information in accordance with the methodology described above and the basis of preparation as set out on page 284: identi ed and described the business covered by the Old Mutual MCEV methodology: applied the Old Mutual MCEV methodology consistently to the covered business: determined assumptions on a market consistent basis and operating assumptions on a best estimate entity speci c basis, having regard to past, current and expected future experience and to any relevant external data, and then applied them consistently: and where relevant, made estimates that are reasonable and consistent.
The Principles were designed during a period of relatively stable market conditions and their application could, in turbulent markets, lead to misleading results.
In December 2008 the CFO Forum announced that they are reviewing the Principles and guidance of the application of these Principles to address the notion of market consistency in the current dislocated market conditions.
The particular areas under review include implied volatilities, the cost of residual non-hedgeable risks, the use of swap rates as a proxy for risk free reference rates and the effect of liquidity premia.
When the CFO Forum members agreed to the use of the swap curve as the basis for setting risk free reference rates, the additional return due to liquidity premiums, that could be justi ed was low and at a level where it did not signi cantly impact the results.
However, there are substantial liquidity premiums embedded into corporate bond spreads in the current dislocated market conditions resulting in a liquidity adjustment being applied within the risk free reference rates for Old Mutuals US Life onshore business as at 31 December 2008.
Old Mutual believes that such an adjustment is required to maintain consistency with current market prices.
Hence, Old Mutual plc does not comply with Principle 14 and Guideline 14.4, in respect of the 31 December 2008 disclosure for the US Life Onshore business, which does not allow any adjustments to be made to the swap yield curve to allow for liquidity premiums.
This approach will be reviewed for use in future reporting periods once the CFO Forum has completed its own review on the application of Principle 14.
Old Mutual fully complied with all of the Principles in respect of the restatement to MCEV for all of its businesses, at 31 December 2007.
Further detail on the justi cation and quantum of the liquidity adjustment, being applied within the risk free reference rates for US Life onshore business as at 31 December 2008 is provided in note 3 of the Old Mutual MCEV supplementary information.
Page 279 MCEV nancials MCEV nancials
