PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 39 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007 1.
Accounting policies A summary of the principal accounting policies, all of which have been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year, is set out below.
a Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for the measurement at fair value of investments and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and with the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies, issued by the Association of Investment Companies in 2005.
During the year the Company adopted FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosure.
FRS 29 replaces FRS 25 and enhances the previous disclosures required by FRS 26.
The impact of this adoption has been to expand disclosures provided in the financial statements see note 19.
There has been no effect on the Companys reported results or financial position.
b Investments As the Companys business is investing in financial assets with a view to profiting from their total return in the form of interest, dividends or increases in fair value and the portfolio of investments is managed and its performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with documented investment strategy, with information about the portfolio provided on that basis to the Companys Directors, listed equities and fixed income securities are designated as fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition.
Investments are recognised on the date that they are traded.
Financial assets designated as fair value through profit or loss are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which is the bid price.
Foreign securities are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the close of business in London on the Balance Sheet date.
Any gains or losses including currency movements whether realised or unrealised, arising on fixed asset investments are allocated to capital in the Income Statement and then taken to capital reserves.
c Income All dividends are taken into account on the date investments are marked ex-dividend.
All other income from investments is taken into account on an accruals basis.
Deposit interest receivable is taken into account on an accruals basis.
d Expenses and finance costs All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
The investment management fee and interest payable on the debenture stock and bank borrowings are recognised through the income statement and have been allocated 70% to capital and 30% to revenue, in line with the Boards expected long-term split of returns, in the form of capital gains and income respectively, from the investment portfolio of the Company.
Debenture Stakes are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The investment performance management fee is calculated as detailed in the Report of the Directors.
The performance fee is charged wholly to capital.
e Dividends Dividends are not accrued in the financial statements unless there is an obligation to pay at the balance sheet date.
f Segmental reporting and functional currency The Directors are of the opinion that the Company is engaged in a single segment of business of investing in equity and debt securities, issued by companies operating and generating revenue mainly in the UK and, therefore, no segmental reporting is provided.
The Companys functional currency is pounds sterling as its operating activities are based in the UK and substantially all of its income and expenses are in sterling, which is also the currency in which these accounts are prepared.
