PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 47 19.
Financial instruments The Companys financial instruments comprise its investment portfolio as shown on pages 9 and 10, cash, overdraft, debtors, creditors falling within one year and the debentures that arise directly from its operations such as sales and purchases awaiting settlement and accrued income.
The accounting policies in note 1 include criteria for the recognition and the basis of measurement applied for financial instruments.
Note 1 also includes the basis on which income and expenses arising from financial assets and liabilities are recognised and measured.
Risk Management Policies and Procedures The Directors have delegated to the Manager the responsibility for the day-to-day investment activities of the Company as more fully described in the Report of the Directors.
As an investment trust the Company invests in equities and other investments for the long-term so as to meet its investment objective and policies.
In pursuing its investment objective, the Company is exposed to a variety of risks that could result in either a reduction in the Companys net assets or a reduction of the profits available for dividends.
Those related to financial instruments include market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
The main risk that the Company faces arising from its financial instruments is market risk this risk is reviewed in detail below.
Since the Company invests in quoted investments traded on recognised stock exchanges, liquidity risk and credit risk are thereby significantly mitigated.
Liquidity risk is minimised as the majority of the Companys investments comprise a diversified portfolio of readily realisable securities which can be sold to meet funding commitments as necessary.
In addition, the debentures and overdraft provides for additional funding flexibility.
Credit risk encompasses the failure by counterparties to deliver securities which the Company has paid for, or to pay for securities which the Company has delivered.
This risk is minimised by using only approved counterparties.
Market Risk The fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument may fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
This market risk comprises three elements currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk.
Looking at the components parts of market risk, the currency risk component affect is not significant as the Companys financial instruments are mainly denominated in sterling and forward currency contracts are used to hedge the exposure to currency risk.
For the remaining two components of market risk, the Companys Manager assesses the Companys exposure when making each investment decision, and monitors the overall level of market risk on the whole of the investment portfolio on an ongoing basis.
The Board meets at least quarterly to assess risk and review investment performance, as disclosed in the Board Responsibilities on page 27.
No other derivative or hedging instruments are utilised to manage market risk.
Gearing is used to enhance returns, however, this will also increase the Companys exposure to market risk and volatility.
Currency Risk The majority of the Companys assets, liabilities and income are denominated in sterling.
There is some exposure to US dollars.
Management of the Currency Risk The Manager monitors the Companys exposure to foreign currencies on a daily basis and reports to the board on a regular basis.
Forward currency contracts are used to limit the Companys exposure to anticipated future changes in exchange rates which are used also to achieve the portfolio characteristics that assist the Company in meeting its investment objective and policies.
All contracts are limited to currencies and amounts commensurate with the asset exposure to those currencies.
Income denominated in foreign currencies is converted to sterling on receipt.
The Company does not use financial instruments to mitigate the currency exposure in the period between the time that income is included in the financial statements and its receipt.
Currency Exposure The fair values of the Companys monetary items that have currency exposure at 31 March are shown below.
Where the Companys equity investments which are not monetary items are priced in a foreign currency, they have been included separately in the analysis so as to show the overall level of exposure.
48 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 19.
Financial instruments continued 31 MARCH 31 MARCH 2008 2007 US DOLLAR US DOLLAR 000 000 Forward currency sales 30,408 33,671 Foreign currency exposure on net monetary items 30,408 33,671 Investments at fair value through profit or loss that are equities 30,325 33,826 Total net foreign currency exposure 83 155 The above amounts are not representative of the exposure to risk during the year, because the levels of monetary foreign currency exposure change significantly throughout the year.
Currency Sensitivity The following table illustrates the sensitivity of the profit after taxation for the year with respect to the Companys monetary financial assets and liabilities and the exchange rates for sterling to US dollars.
It assumes the following changes in exchange rates: 2008 2007 US$ 1.0% 3.5% These percentages have been determined based on the market volatility in exchange rates in the previous year.
The sensitivity analysis is based on the Companys monetary foreign currency financial instruments held at each balance sheet date and takes account of forward foreign exchange contracts that offset the effects of changes in currency exchange rates.
If sterling had strengthened against the US dollar, this would have had the following effect: 2008 2007 000 000 Income statement profit loss after taxation Revenue return 21 75 Capital return 1 4 Total loss after taxation for the year 20 79 If sterling had weakened against the currencies shown, this would have had the following effect: 2008 2007 US$ US$ 000 000 Income statement profit loss after taxation Revenue return 2175 Capital return 1 4 Total profit after taxation for the year 20 79 In the opinion of the Directors, the above sensitivity analyses are not representative of the year as a whole, since the level of exposure changes frequently as part of the currency risk management process of the Company.
Interest Rate Risk Interest rate movements may affect the level of income receivable on cash deposits and the interest payable on variable rate borrowings.
When the Company has cash balances, they are held on variable rate bank accounts yielding rates of interest dependent on the base rate of the Custodian, Citibank N. A. plc.
The Company has an uncommitted bank overdraft facility based on the lower of 25% of the net asset value NAV of the Company or 100 million.
The Company uses the facility when required at levels approved and monitored by the Board.
In addition, the Company also has in issue a 30 million 6.125% Debenture 2014.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 49 At the year end drawings on the Companys overdraft were 53,918,000 2007:91,690,000 and debentures had a amortised cost value of 29,668,000 2007: 29,665,000.
At the maximum gearing of 25% of NAV, being the lower of 25% of NAV or 130 million and assuming that the debenture remains unchanged, the effect of a 0.5% in the interest rate would result in an decrease or increase to the Companys income statement of 477,000.
The Companys portfolio is not directly exposed to interest rate risk.
Other Price Risk Other price risks i. e. changes in market prices other than those arising from interest rate risk or currency risk may affect the value of the equity investments, but it is the business of the Manager to manage the portfolio to achieve the best return that he can.
Management of Other Price Risk The Directors manage the market price risks inherent in the investment portfolio by meeting regularly to monitor on a formal basis the Managers compliance with the Companys stated objectives and policies and to review investment performance.
The Companys portfolio is the result of the Managers investment process and as a result is not correlated with the Companys benchmark or the market in which the Company invests.
The value of the portfolio will not move in line with the market but will move as a result of the performance of the company shares within the portfolio.
If the value of the portfolio fell by 10% at the balance sheet date, the profit after tax for the year would decrease by 58.4 million 2007: 70.2 million.
If the value of the portfolio rose by 10%, the profit after tax would have increased by the 58.4 million 2007: 70.2 million Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities The fair values of the financial assets and financial liabilities are either carried in the balance sheet at their fair value investments, or the balance sheet amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value due from brokers, dividends receivable, accrued income, due to brokers, accruals, cash at bank and overdraft.
The fair value of the 30 million 6.125% Debenture 2014, based on the mid-market value at the balance sheet date, is 31,308,000 2007: 30,683,000 Capital Management The Companys capital is as disclosed in the Balance Sheet and is managed on a basis consistent with its investment objective and policies, as disclosed in the Report of the Directors on pages 14 and 15.
The principal risks and their management are disclosed above.
