PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 47 19.
Financial instruments The Companys financial instruments comprise its investment portfolio as shown on pages 9 and 10, cash, overdraft, debtors, creditors falling within one year and the debentures that arise directly from its operations such as sales and purchases awaiting settlement and accrued income.
The accounting policies in note 1 include criteria for the recognition and the basis of measurement applied for financial instruments.
Note 1 also includes the basis on which income and expenses arising from financial assets and liabilities are recognised and measured.
Risk Management Policies and Procedures The Directors have delegated to the Manager the responsibility for the day-to-day investment activities of the Company as more fully described in the Report of the Directors.
As an investment trust the Company invests in equities and other investments for the long-term so as to meet its investment objective and policies.
In pursuing its investment objective, the Company is exposed to a variety of risks that could result in either a reduction in the Companys net assets or a reduction of the profits available for dividends.
Those related to financial instruments include market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
The main risk that the Company faces arising from its financial instruments is market risk this risk is reviewed in detail below.
Since the Company invests in quoted investments traded on recognised stock exchanges, liquidity risk and credit risk are thereby significantly mitigated.
Liquidity risk is minimised as the majority of the Companys investments comprise a diversified portfolio of readily realisable securities which can be sold to meet funding commitments as necessary.
In addition, the debentures and overdraft provides for additional funding flexibility.
Credit risk encompasses the failure by counterparties to deliver securities which the Company has paid for, or to pay for securities which the Company has delivered.
This risk is minimised by using only approved counterparties.
Market Risk The fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument may fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
This market risk comprises three elements currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk.
Looking at the components parts of market risk, the currency risk component affect is not significant as the Companys financial instruments are mainly denominated in sterling and forward currency contracts are used to hedge the exposure to currency risk.
For the remaining two components of market risk, the Companys Manager assesses the Companys exposure when making each investment decision, and monitors the overall level of market risk on the whole of the investment portfolio on an ongoing basis.
The Board meets at least quarterly to assess risk and review investment performance, as disclosed in the Board Responsibilities on page 27.
No other derivative or hedging instruments are utilised to manage market risk.
Gearing is used to enhance returns, however, this will also increase the Companys exposure to market risk and volatility.
Currency Risk The majority of the Companys assets, liabilities and income are denominated in sterling.
There is some exposure to US dollars.
Management of the Currency Risk The Manager monitors the Companys exposure to foreign currencies on a daily basis and reports to the board on a regular basis.
Forward currency contracts are used to limit the Companys exposure to anticipated future changes in exchange rates which are used also to achieve the portfolio characteristics that assist the Company in meeting its investment objective and policies.
All contracts are limited to currencies and amounts commensurate with the asset exposure to those currencies.
Income denominated in foreign currencies is converted to sterling on receipt.
The Company does not use financial instruments to mitigate the currency exposure in the period between the time that income is included in the financial statements and its receipt.
Currency Exposure The fair values of the Companys monetary items that have currency exposure at 31 March are shown below.
Where the Companys equity investments which are not monetary items are priced in a foreign currency, they have been included separately in the analysis so as to show the overall level of exposure.
