32 DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT in respect of the preparation of the annual financial report The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual financial report in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The Directors, to the best of their knowledge, state that: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and the Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 as and when updated by the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Antony Hardy Director Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors 10 June 2008 Electronic Publication The annual financial report is published on www.
co. uk investmenttrusts which is the Companys website maintained by the Companys Manager.
The work carried out by the Auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website and accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
