PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 39 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007 1.
Accounting policies A summary of the principal accounting policies, all of which have been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year, is set out below.
a Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for the measurement at fair value of investments and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and with the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies, issued by the Association of Investment Companies in 2005.
During the year the Company adopted FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosure.
FRS 29 replaces FRS 25 and enhances the previous disclosures required by FRS 26.
The impact of this adoption has been to expand disclosures provided in the financial statements see note 19.
There has been no effect on the Companys reported results or financial position.
b Investments As the Companys business is investing in financial assets with a view to profiting from their total return in the form of interest, dividends or increases in fair value and the portfolio of investments is managed and its performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with documented investment strategy, with information about the portfolio provided on that basis to the Companys Directors, listed equities and fixed income securities are designated as fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition.
Investments are recognised on the date that they are traded.
Financial assets designated as fair value through profit or loss are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which is the bid price.
Foreign securities are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the close of business in London on the Balance Sheet date.
Any gains or losses including currency movements whether realised or unrealised, arising on fixed asset investments are allocated to capital in the Income Statement and then taken to capital reserves.
c Income All dividends are taken into account on the date investments are marked ex-dividend.
All other income from investments is taken into account on an accruals basis.
Deposit interest receivable is taken into account on an accruals basis.
d Expenses and finance costs All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
The investment management fee and interest payable on the debenture stock and bank borrowings are recognised through the income statement and have been allocated 70% to capital and 30% to revenue, in line with the Boards expected long-term split of returns, in the form of capital gains and income respectively, from the investment portfolio of the Company.
Debenture Stakes are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The investment performance management fee is calculated as detailed in the Report of the Directors.
The performance fee is charged wholly to capital.
e Dividends Dividends are not accrued in the financial statements unless there is an obligation to pay at the balance sheet date.
f Segmental reporting and functional currency The Directors are of the opinion that the Company is engaged in a single segment of business of investing in equity and debt securities, issued by companies operating and generating revenue mainly in the UK and, therefore, no segmental reporting is provided.
The Companys functional currency is pounds sterling as its operating activities are based in the UK and substantially all of its income and expenses are in sterling, which is also the currency in which these accounts are prepared.
40 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued g Taxation and deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more, or right to pay less, tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
This is subject to deferred tax assets only being recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Timing differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements which are capable of reversal in one or more subsequent periods.
The tax effect of different items of expenditure is allocated between capital and revenue on the same basis as the particular item to which it relates, using the marginal method.
h Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currency, whether of a revenue or capital nature, are translated to sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the dates of such transactions.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated to sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the close of business in London on the balance sheet date.
Any gains or losses on foreign currency held, whether realised or unrealised, are taken to the capital reserve or to the revenue account, depending on whether the gain or loss is of capital or revenue nature.
i Capital reserves The following are recognised in the income statement, allocated to capital and then transferred to the following reserves: Capital reserve realised gains and losses on the realisation of investments: realised exchange differences of a capital nature: expenses charged to this reserve in accordance with the above policies: and custodians transaction charges.
Capital reserves unrealised increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at the year end.
Transfers to or from the income statement are shown in the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds.
Share buy backs are taken directly through capital reserves realised.
j Forward contracts Forward contracts entered into for hedging purposes are valued at the appropriate forward currency rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Profits or losses on the closure or revaluation of positions are included in capital reserves.
These contracts are designated fair value hedges through profit or loss.
k Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Companys balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Company offsets financial assets and financial liabilities if it has a legally enforceable right to set-off the recognised amounts and intends to settle on a net basis.
Financial liabilities are fide-recognised when the Company settles the obligations.
Financial assets are fide-recognised when the contractual right to the cashflow ceases.
