PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 55 GLOSSARY OF TERMS Benchmark A market index, which averages the performance of companies in any sector, giving a good indication of any rises or falls in the market.
The benchmark used in these accounts is the FTSE All-Share Index.
Discount The amount by which the mid-market price share of an investment trust is lower than the diluted net asset value per share.
The discount is normally expressed as a percentage of the net asset value per share.
Gearing The term applied to the effect of borrowings and prior charge share capital on assets that will increase the return on investment when the value of the Companys investments is rising but reduce the return when values are declining.
A gearing level of 100 or 0% indicates there is no gearing.
Actual Gearing reflects the amount of loans already arranged and in use by the Company.
This is the gearing figure published by the Association of Investment Companies.
It is calculated by dividing the aggregate of Shareholders funds and all drawndown loans by Shareholders funds.
Asset Gearing reflects the amount of loans actively invested in assets and not held in cash.
It is calculated by dividing fixed asset investments by Shareholders funds.
Market Capitalisation For a company is calculated by multiplying the stockmarket price of an ordinary share by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
Net Asset Value Basic Net Asset Value Also described as Shareholders funds, the net asset value is the value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities for this purpose include current and long-term liabilities.
The net asset value per share is calculated by dividing the net asset value by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
Diluted Net Asset Value The diluted net asset value is the net asset value per share that would arise if the warrants and subscription shares were converted.
It is calculated by dividing the net asset value, by the number of shares that would be in issue if all the warrants and subscriptions shares were converted to ordinary shares.
Where the diluted net asset value per ordinary share is greater than the basic net asset per ordinary share, there is no dilutive effect.
Shareholders Funds Also called equity Shareholders funds.
The amount due to the ordinary shareholders.
Total Net Assets Total assets less current liabilities.
Total Expense Ratio Total expenses excluding interest incurred, including those charged to capital, divided by average Shareholders funds during the year.
Total Return The combined effect of any dividends paid, together with the rise or fall in the share price or NAV.
Performance comparisons can then be made between trusts with different dividend policies.
Any dividends after tax received by a shareholder are assumed to have been reinvested in either additional shares ie share price total return or in the Companys assets ie NAV total return.
56 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 57 The Manager of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc is Invesco Asset Management Limited.
Invesco Asset Management Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Invesco Limited and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Invesco Perpetual is a business name of Invesco Asset Management Limited.
Invesco is one of the largest independent global investment management firms, with funds under management of $470.3 billion.
We aim to provide the highest returns available from markets, through active management, but in a controlled manner, conscious of the risks involved and within our clients objectives.
Funds under Management as at 31 March 2008 58 SPECIALIST FUNDS MANAGED BY INVESCO Investing for Income, Income Growth and Capital Growth from equities, fixed interest securities or property Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc Invesco Property Income Trust Limited Aims to generate capital growth with a higher than average The Company is a closed-ended investment company with limited income from investment, primarily, in the UK equity market.
It is liability incorporated in Jersey.
The objective is to provide ordinary intended that the Company will provide shareholders with real shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the dividend growth over the medium-term by investing mainly in prospect of income and capital growth from investing in above-average yield equities.
However, investments are also made commercial properties in the UK and Continental Europe.
The in companies with lower initial yields which are considered to Trust is geared by bank debt.
have good potential for income growth.
The Trust is geared by a City Merchants High Yield Trust plc debenture stock and bank debt.
Aims to generate a high level of income from a variety of fixed Keystone Investment Trust plc income and or equity instruments combined with a degree of Aims to provide shareholders with long-term growth of capital security.
The Trust is geared by bank debt.
The Trust is geared by way of Invesco Leveraged High Yield Fund Limited debenture stocks.
A Jersey-incorporated closed-ended Company that aims to provide Invesco Income Growth Trust plc a high level of income, paid gross to UK investors, whilst seeking to Aims to provide shareholders with a long-term growth in capital maximise total return through investing, primarily, in a diversified and real, long-term growth in dividends from an above-average portfolio of high yielding corporate and government bonds.
The yielding portfolio comprising mainly UK equities and equity-related Company seeks to balance the attraction of high yield securities securities.
Seeks to achieve a total return in excess of the FTSE Allwith the need for protection of capital and to manage volatility.
Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc UK Equity Share Invesco Perpetual Recovery Trust 2011 plc Portfolio A split-capital investment trust with ordinary income shares, zero dividend preference shares and units a combination of the two.
Aims to generate long-term capital and income growth with real Aims to meet the capital entitlements of the zero dividend growth in dividends from investment, primarily, in the UK equity preference shares and to maximise the capital and income returns market.
The portfolio is geared by bank debt.
of the ordinary income shares by investing primarily in equities but Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Managed Liquidity also debt securities which are considered to offer recovery Share Portfolio prospects.
Returns to ordinary income shareholders are geared by the prior charge of the zero shares.
The Trust has an initial life Aims to generate a high level of income from a variety of fixed projected to end in 2011. income instruments combined with a high degree of security.
Investing in Smaller Companies Invesco English and International Trust plc Invesco Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc Invests mainly in smaller companies quoted on the main London Stock Exchange and in stocks quoted on the Alternative Investment Aims to achieve long-term total returns for the Companys Market AIM.
It pursues a relatively risk-averse stock selection shareholders from investment in a broad cross-section of small to strategy holding a well-diversified portfolio and seeks to invest in medium size UK-quoted companies.
The Trust may gear by bank companies offering particular value.
The Trust has adopted a flexible debt.
gearing policy and a quarterly redemption creation mechanism.
Investing Internationally Invesco Asia Trust plc Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Global Equity Share Portfolio Aims to provide long-term capital growth by investing in a diversified portfolio of Asian and Australasian securities.
The Company aims to Aims to produce long-term capital growth from a sensibly achieve growth in its net asset value in excess of the Morgan Stanley diversified portfolio of international equities including the UK.
Capital International All Country Asia Pacific ex Japan Index, The portfolio comprises the best ideas of a number of Invesco measured in sterling.
Perpetual Japanese Investment Trust plc Aims to achieve long-term capital growth by investing in a diversified portfolio of quoted Japanese securities.
Investing for Absolute Returns Invesco Perpetual European Absolute Return Trust plc Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Hedge Fund Share Portfolio Aims to achieve absolute total returns through investment principally in equity, fixed interest and cash securities within Aims to achieve absolute return of 3-month sterling LIBOR plus continental Europe ex.
Seeks to achieve returns in excess of 5% per annum over a rolling 5-year period, coupled with low sterling LIBOR.
Investing in Multiple Asset Classes Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc A choice of asset classes within one investment trust with the UK Equity Share Portfolio freedom to switch between them, twice a year, free from capital Global Equity Share Portfolio gains tax liability.
Managed Liquidity Share Portfolio Hedge Fund Share Portfolio Other Invesco Perpetual AiM VCT plc launch primarily through the realisation of capital gains from a portfolio of investments in AIM Qualifying Companies while The Company was launched in August 2004.
Its objective is to maintaining the capital value of shares.
provide a tax-free dividend return to shareholders invested at Please contact our Investor Services Team on 0800 085 8677 if you would like more information about the investment trusts or other specialist funds listed above.
Further details are also available on the following website: www.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 59 NOTES Linkway CCP L15604
