THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt 50 as to what action to take, you should consult your stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other appropriate independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your shares in Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc, please forward this document and the accompanying Form of Proxy to the person through whom the sale or transfer was affected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE IS GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting AGM of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc will be held at The Lanesborough, Hyde Park Corner, London SW1X 7TA on Wednesday 9 July 2008 at 12.00 noon for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2008.
To re-elect Sir Martyn Arbib a Director of the Company.
To re-elect James DAlbiac a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Antony Hardy a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Ed Burke a Director of the Company.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2008.
To re-appoint the Auditors and authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Biographies of Directors seeking election or re-election are shown on page 11 of the Annual Financial Report.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of which resolutions 8, 11 and 12 will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolutions and resolutions 9, 10, and 13 will be proposed as Special Resolutions: 8.
THAT: the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended from time to time prior to the date of the passing of this resolution the Act to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in that Section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,907,666, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or the date fifteen months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
THAT: the Directors be and they are hereby empowered, in accordance with Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended from time to time prior to the date of the passing of this resolution the Act to allot equity securities for cash, either pursuant to the authority given by resolution 9 set out above or if such allotment constitutes the sale of relevant shares which, immediately before the sale, were held by the Company as treasury shares otherwise, as if Section 90 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of all holders of a class of equity securities where the equity securities attributable respectively to the interests of all holders of securities of such class are either proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of relevant equity securities held by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such equity securities subject in either case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of, any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or otherwise : and PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 51 b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a rights issue of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,072,299. and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or the date fifteen months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that this power shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired: and so that words and expressions defined in or for the purposes of Part IV or V of the Act shall bear the same meanings in this resolution.
THAT: the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Act of its issued Shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company Shares PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT i the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 31,063,774: ii the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 10p: iii the maximum price which may be paid for a Share shall be an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for a Share taken from and calculated by reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Share is purchased: iv any purchase of Shares will be made in the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per Share as determined by the Directors : v the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company in 2009 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 12 months from the passing of this resolution unless the authority is renewed at any other general meeting prior to such time: and vi the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
THAT: any shares purchased in accordance with resolution 11, may, subject to the provisions of the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 as amended and any applicable regulations of the United Kingdom Listing Authority be held or otherwise dealt with in accordance with Section 162D of the Companies Act 1985 as treasury shares.
The holding of treasury shares will be restricted to 10% of the Companys issued share capital and any reissue of them will only take place on terms that are in the best interests of shareholders.
THAT: the following Investment Objective, Investment Policy and Risk and Investment Limits be approved.
Investment Objective The Companys objective is to generate capital growth with a higher than average income from investment in the UK equity market.
It is intended that the Company will provide real dividend growth over the medium term.
Investment Policy and Risk The Company will invest mainly in above average yielding UK equities and equity-related securities of UK companies.
However, a portion of the portfolio may be invested in equities with a lower initial yield which are considered to have good potential for income growth.
At certain times, up to 10% of the gross assets may be invested in fixed interest securities, where the main criteria for inclusion will be on capital certainty, good liquidity and high credit quality.
In addition, up to 10% of the assets may be invested in non-UK equities.
The Manager will construct a portfolio which reflects his convictions and best ideas.
The Manager does not set out to manage the risk characteristics of the portfolio relative to the FTSE 52 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING continued All-Share Index benchmark index and the investment process may result in potentially very significant over or underweight positions in individual sectors versus the benchmark index.
The size of weightings will reflect the Managers view of the attractiveness of a security and the degree of conviction.
If a security is not considered to be a good investment, then the Company will not own it, irrespective of its weight in the benchmark index.
The Manager controls the stock-specific risk of individual securities by ensuring that the portfolio is always appropriately diversified across all market sectors.
In-depth and continual analysis of the fundamentals of investee companies allows the Manager to assess the financial risks associated with any particular security.
The Directors believe that the use of borrowings gearing can enhance returns to shareholders and the Company will use borrowings in pursuing its investment objective.
Investment Limits The Board has prescribed limits on the investment policy, among which are the following: The Company will not invest more than 12% of its gross assets in any single investment: the Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in other listed investment companies: the Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in non-UK equities: the Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in fixed interest securities: the Company will not invest more than 5% of its gross assets in unquoted investments: and gearing may be used to raise equity exposure up to a maximum of 25% of net assets at the time of purchase where it is appropriate.
THAT a the Articles of Association produced to the AGM and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification as New Articles 'A' be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
b with effect from 00.01 a. m. on 1 October 2008, the new Articles of Association adopted pursuant to paragraph 13 a be amended by the insertion of new article 101.8, such amendment being produced to the Meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification as New Articles 'B'.
Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolution 13: Adoption of new articles of association It is proposed in resolution 13 to adopt new articles of association the New Articles in order to update the Company's current articles of association the Current Articles primarily to take account of changes in English company law brought about by the Companies Act 2006.
The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are summarised below.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some more changes which merely reflect changes made by the Companies Act 2006 have not been noted below.
The New Articles showing all of the changes to the Current Articles are available for inspection, at the Registered Office of the Company as well as 15 minutes prior to and during the AGM.
Articles which duplicate statutory provisions Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act are in the main amended to bring them into line with the 2006 Act.
Certain examples of such provisions include provisions as to the variation of class rights and provisions regarding the period of notice required to convene general meetings.
The main changes made to reflect this approach are detailed below.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 53 2.
Form of resolution The Current Articles contain a provision that, where for any purpose an ordinary resolution is required, a special or extraordinary resolution is also effective and that, where an extraordinary resolution is required, a special resolution is also effective.
This provision is being amended, as the concept of extraordinary resolutions has not been retained under the 2006 Act.
The Current Articles enable members to act by written resolution.
Under the Companies Act 2006 public companies can no longer pass written resolutions.
These provisions have therefore been removed in the New Articles.
Variation of class rights The Current Articles contain provisions regarding the variation of class rights.
The proceedings and specific quorum requirements for a meeting convened to vary class rights are contained in the 2006 Act.
The relevant provisions have therefore been amended in the New Articles.
Convening extraordinary and annual general meetings The provisions in the Current Articles dealing with the convening of general meetings and the length of notice required to convene general meetings are being amended to conform to new provisions in the 2006 Act.
In particular, an extraordinary general meeting to consider a special resolution can be convened on 14 days' notice whereas previously 21 days' notice was required.
Votes of members Under the 2006 Act, proxies are entitled to vote on a show of hands whereas under the Current Articles proxies are only entitled to vote on a poll.
The 2006 Act also entities proxies to speak.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share held by the shareholder.
Multiple corporate representatives may be appointed.
The New Articles reflect these new provisions.
Directors' indemnities and loans to fund expenditure The 2006 Act has in some areas widened the scope of the powers of a company to indemnify directors and to fund expenditure incurred in connection with certain actions against directors.
In particular, the existing exemption allowing a company to provide money for the purpose of funding a director's defence in court proceedings now expressly covers regulatory proceedings and applies to associated companies.
Joint Holders In order to make the flow of information more efficient between the Company and our joint shareholders, the Articles are being amended so that where there are joint shareholders, anything agreed or specified with the Company by any one joint shareholder will have been deemed to have been agreed or specified with the Company by all the joint shareholders.
Provisions coming into effect on 1 October 2008 8.
Conflicts of interest The 2006 Act sets out directors' general duties which largely codify the existing law but with some changes.
Changes relating to conflicts of interest come into effect on 1 October 2008 and it is not possible to reflect them in the Company's Articles of Association until the new legislation is in force.
Under the 2006 Act, from 1 October 2008 a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the company's interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The 2006 Act also allows the articles of association to contain other provisions for dealing with directors' conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The New Articles, as proposed to be altered with effect from 1 October 2008, give the directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act 54 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING continued in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the company's success.
The directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate Dated this 10 June 2008 By order of the Board Invesco Asset Management Limited Company Secretary Notes: 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote in his stead.
In order to be valid an appointment of proxy must be returned by one of the following methods: via the Capita Registrars website at www.
com in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys Registrars Proxies, PO Box 25, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR34BR: or in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out below and in each case to be received by the Company not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in this document.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s, such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
A form of appointment of proxy accompanies this Notice.
Appointment of a proxy does not prevent a member from attending and voting at this meeting.
To be effective, the form of appointment of proxy, duly completed and executed, together with any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy thereof must be lodged via www.
com or at the office of the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars Proxies, PO Box 25, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4BR, by not later than 11.30 am on 7 July 2008.
A person entered on the Register of Members at close of business on 7 July 2008 a member is entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any changes to the Register of Members after such time and date shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and or vote at the Meeting.
If the Meeting is adjourned, entitlement to attend and vote at the adjourned meeting, and the number of votes which may be cast thereat, will be determined by reference to the Companys register of members 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting.
