Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information 1 Basis of preparation The EEV basis results have been prepared in accordance with the EEV Principles issued by the CFO Forum of European Insurance Companies in May 2004 and expanded by the Additional Guidance on EEV Disclosures published in October 2005.
Where appropriate the EEV basis results include the effects of adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The EEV results for the Group are prepared for covered business, as defined by the EEV Principles.
Covered business represents the Groups long-term insurance business for which the value of new and in-force contracts is attributable to shareholders.
The EEV basis results for the Groups covered business are then combined with the IFRS basis results of the Groups other operations.
The definition of long-term business operations is consistent with previous practice and comprises those contracts falling under the definition of long-term insurance business for regulatory purposes together with, for US operations, contracts that are in substance the same as guaranteed investment contracts GICs but do not fall within the technical definition.
Under the EEV Principles, the results for covered business incorporate the projected margins of attaching internal asset management.
With two principal exceptions, covered business comprises the Groups long-term business operations.
The principal exceptions are for the closed Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund SAIF and for the presentational treatment of the financial position of two of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes.
A very small amount of UK group pensions business is also not modelled for EEV reporting purposes.
SAIF is a ring-fenced sub-fund of the Prudential Assurance Company PAC long-term fund, established by a Court approved Scheme of Arrangement in October 1997.
SAIF is closed to new business and the assets and liabilities of the fund are wholly attributable to the policyholders of the fund.
As regards the Groups defined benefit pension schemes, the liabilities attaching to the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme PSPS and Scottish Amicable Pension Scheme are excluded from the EEV value of UK operations and included in the total for Other operations.
The amounts are partially attributable to the PAC with-profits fund and shareholder-backed long-term business and partially to other parts of the Group.
In addition to the amounts recognised as attributable to shareholders under IFRS basis, a 10 per cent share of the amount attributable to the PAC with-profits fund is recognised for EEV reporting purposes.
The directors are responsible for the preparation of the supplementary information in accordance with the EEV Principles.
2 Methodology a Embedded value Overview The embedded value is the present value of the shareholders interest in the earnings distributable from assets allocated to covered business after sufficient allowance has been made for the aggregate risks in that business.
The shareholders interest in the Groups long-term business comprises: present value of future shareholder cash flows from in-force covered business value of in-force business, less a deduction for the cost of locked-in encumbered capital: locked-in encumbered capital: and shareholders net worth in excess of encumbered capital free surplus.
The value of future new business is excluded from the embedded value.
Notwithstanding the basis of presentation of results as explained in note 6 no smoothing of market or account balance values, unrealised gains or investment return is applied in determining the embedded value or profit before tax.
Separately, the analysis of profit is delineated between operating profit based on longer-term investment returns and other constituent items, as explained in note 4.
Valuation of new business The contribution from new business represents profits determined by applying non-economic assumptions as at the end of the year.
In determining the new business contribution for UK immediate annuity and lifetime mortgage business, which is interest rate sensitive, it is appropriate to use point of sale economic assumptions, consistent with how the business is priced.
For other business within the Group end of period economic assumptions are used.
Valuation movements on investments With the exception of debt securities held by Jackson, investment gains and losses during the period to the extent that changes in capital values do not directly match changes in liabilities are included directly in the profit for the period and shareholders funds as they arise.
The results for any covered business conceptually reflects the aggregate of the IFRS results and the movements on the additional shareholders interest recognised on the EEV basis.
Thus the start point for the calculation of the EEV results for Jackson, as for other businesses, reflects the market value movements recognised on the IFRS basis.
322 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Financial statements EEV However, in determining the movements on the additional shareholders interest, the basis for calculating the Jackson EEV result acknowledges that for debt securities backing liabilities the aggregate EEV results reflect the fact that the value of in-force business instead incorporates the discounted value of future spread earnings.
This value is not affected generally by short-term market movements on securities that are broadly speaking held with the intent and ability to be retained for the longer term.
Fixed income securities backing the free surplus and required capital for Jackson are accounted for at fair value.
However, consistent with the treatment applied under IFRS for securities classified as available-for-sale, movements in unrealised appreciation on these securities are accounted for in equity rather than in the income statement, as shown in the movement in shareholders equity.
Value of in-force business The embedded value results are prepared incorporating best estimate assumptions about all relevant factors including levels of future investment returns, expenses, persistency and mortality.
These assumptions are used to project future cash flows.
The present value of the future cash flows is then calculated using a discount rate which reflects both the time value of money and the non-diversifiable risks associated with the cash flows that are not otherwise allowed for.
The total profit that emerges over the lifetime of an individual contract as calculated using the embedded value basis is the same as that calculated under the IFRS basis.
Since the embedded value basis reflects discounted future cash flows, under this methodology the profit emergence is advanced thus more closely aligning the timing of the recognition of profits with the efforts and risks of current management actions, particularly with regard to business sold during the year.
Cost of capital A charge is deducted from the embedded value for the cost of capital supporting the Groups long-term business.
This capital is referred to as encumbered capital.
The cost is the difference between the nominal value of the capital and the discounted value of the projected releases of this capital allowing for investment earnings net of tax on the capital.
The annual result is affected by the movement in this cost from year to year which comprises a charge against new business profit and generally a release in respect of the reduction in capital requirements for business in force as this runs off.
Where capital is held within a with-profits long-term fund, the value placed on surplus assets in this fund is already discounted to reflect their release over time and no further adjustment is necessary in respect of encumbered capital.
However, where business is funded directly by shareholders, the capital requires adjustment to reflect the cost of that capital to shareholders.
Financial options and guarantees Nature of options and guarantees in Prudentials long-term business Asian operations Subject to local market circumstances and regulatory requirements, the guarantee features described below in respect of UK business broadly apply to similar types of participating contracts principally written in the PAC Hong Kong branch, Singapore and Malaysia.
Participating products have both guaranteed and non-guaranteed elements.
Non-participating long-term products are the only ones where the insurer is contractually obliged to provide guarantees on all benefits.
The most significant book of non-participating business in the Groups Asian operations is Taiwans whole of life contracts.
For these contracts there are floor levels of policyholder benefits that accrue at rates set at inception by reference to minimum returns established by local regulation.
These rates do not vary subsequently with market conditions.
Under these contracts the cost of premiums are also fixed at inception based on a number of assumptions at that time, including long-term interest rates, mortality assumptions and expenses.
The guaranteed maturity and surrender values reflect the pricing basis.
On 20 February 2009, the Company announced that it had agreed to transfer the agency business of the Taiwan Life business to China Life, as detailed in note 21.
US operations Jackson The principal options and guarantees in Jackson are associated with the fixed annuity and Variable Annuity VA lines of business.
Fixed annuities provide that, at Jacksons discretion, it may reset the interest rate credited to policyholders accounts, subject to a guaranteed minimum.
The guaranteed minimum return varies from 1.5 per cent to 5.5 per cent 2007: 1.5 per cent to 5.5 per cent, depending on the particular product, jurisdiction where issued, and date of issue.
At 31 December 2008, 83 per cent 2007: 80 per cent of the fund relates to policies with guarantees of three per cent or less.
The average guarantee rate is 3.0 per cent 2007: 3.1 per cent.
Fixed annuities also present a risk that policyholders will exercise their option to surrender their contracts in periods of rapidly rising interest rates, possibly requiring Jackson to liquidate assets at an inopportune time.
Jackson issues VA contracts where it contractually guarantees to the contract holder either a return of no less than total deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals, b total deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return, or c the highest contract value on a specified anniversary date adjusted for any withdrawals following the contract anniversary.
These guarantees include benefits that are payable in the event of death guaranteed minimum death benefit GMDB, annuitisation guaranteed minimum income benefit GMIB, or at specified dates during the accumulation period guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit GMWB and guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit GMAB.
Jackson hedges these risks using equity options and futures contracts.
323 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 2 Methodology continued These guarantees generally protect the policyholders value in the event of poor equity market performance.
Jackson also issues fixed index annuities that enable policyholders to obtain a portion of an equity-linked return while providing a guaranteed minimum return.
The guaranteed minimum returns would be of a similar nature to those described above for fixed annuities.
UK insurance operations The only significant financial options and guarantees in the UK insurance operations arise in the with-profits fund and SAIF.
With-profits products provide returns to policyholders through bonuses that are smoothed.
There are two types of bonuses: annual and final.
Annual bonuses are declared once a year and, once credited, are guaranteed in accordance with the terms of the particular product.
Unlike annual bonuses, final bonuses are guaranteed only until the next bonus declaration.
The with-profits fund held a provision on the Pillar I Peak 2 basis of 42 million 2007: 45 million at 31 December 2008 to honour guarantees on a small amount of guaranteed annuity option products.
Beyond the generic features and the provisions held in respect of guaranteed annuities described above, there are very few explicit options or guarantees of the with-profits fund such as minimum investment returns, surrender values, or annuity values at retirement and any granted have generally been at very low levels.
The Groups main exposure to guaranteed annuity options in the UK is through SAIF and a provision on the Pillar I Peak 2 basis of 391 million 2007: 563 million was held in SAIF at 31 December 2008 to honour the guarantees.
Time value The value of financial options and guarantees comprises two parts.
One is given by a deterministic valuation on best estimate assumptions the intrinsic value.
The other part arises from the variability of economic outcomes in the future the time value.
Where appropriate, a full stochastic valuation has been undertaken to determine the value of the in-force business including the cost of capital.
A deterministic valuation of the in-force business is also derived using consistent assumptions and the time value of the financial options and guarantees is derived as the difference between the two.
The economic assumptions used for the stochastic calculations are consistent with those used for the deterministic calculations.
Assumptions specific to the stochastic calculations such as equity volatility and credit losses reflect local market conditions and are based on a combination of actual market data, historic market data and an assessment of long-term economic conditions.
Common principles have been adopted across the Group for the stochastic asset models, for example, separate modelling of individual asset classes but with an allowance for correlation between the various asset classes.
Details of the key characteristics of each model are given in note 3. b Level of encumbered capital In adopting the EEV Principles, Prudential has based encumbered capital on its internal targets for economic capital subject to it being at least the local statutory minimum requirements.
Economic capital is assessed using internal models but, when applying the EEV Principles, Prudential does not take credit for the significant diversification benefits that exist within the Group.
For withprofits business written in a segregated life fund, as is the case in Asia and the UK, the capital available in the fund is sufficient to meet the encumbered capital requirements.
For shareholder-backed business the following capital requirements apply: Asian operations: the economic capital requirement is substantially higher than local statutory requirements in total.
Economic capital requirements vary by territory, but in aggregate, the encumbered capital is broadly equivalent to the amount required under the Insurance Groups Directive IGD : US operations: the level of encumbered capital has been set to an amount at least equal to 235 per cent of the risk-based capital required by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners NAIC at the Company Action Level CAL, which is sufficient to meet the economic capital requirement: and UK insurance operations: the economic capital requirements for annuity business are fully met by Pillar I requirements being four per cent of mathematical reserves, which are also sufficient to meet Pillar II requirements.
For unit-linked and other shareholder-backed business the encumbered capital held reflects the statutory minimum Pillar I requirement, as required by the UK regulatory authorities.
c Risk discount rates Overview Under the EEV Principles, discount rates used to determine the present value of future cash flows are set equal to risk-free rates plus a risk margin.
The risk margin should reflect any non-diversifiable risk associated with the emergence of distributable earnings that is not allowed for elsewhere in the valuation.
Prudential has selected a granular approach to better reflect differences in market risk inherent in each product group.
The risk discount rate so derived does not reflect a market beta but instead reflects the expected volatility associated with the cash flows in the embedded value model.
Since financial options and guarantees are explicitly valued under the EEV methodology, discount rates under EEV are set excluding the effect of these product features.
324 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Financial statements EEV As Prudentials UK shareholder-backed annuity business is predominantly backed by fixed interest securities, the beta methodology described above is not appropriate.
We have therefore used a market consistent embedded value MCEV approach to derive an implied risk discount rate which is then applied to the projected cash flows.
In the annuity MCEV calculations, the future cash flows were discounted using the gilt yield curve plus 252 basis points 2007: 84 basis points for fixed annuities and 120 basis points 2007: 24 basis points for inflation-linked annuities.
The 252 basis points and 120 basis points for 2008 were based on our assessment of the liquidity premium available in the yield on the assets backing the annuity liabilities.
Allowance for risk The risk allowance in the risk discount rate is determined as follows: Market risk Under the Capital Asset Pricing Methodology CAPM the discount rate is determined as: Discount rate risk-free rate beta x equity risk premium Under CAPM, the beta of a portfolio or product measures its relative market risk.
The risk discount rates reflect the market risk inherent in each product group and hence the volatility of product cash flows.
They are determined by considering how the profits from each product are affected by changes in expected returns on various asset classes.
By converting this into a relative rate of return it is possible to derive a product specific beta.
Product level betas are calculated each year.
They are combined with the most recent product mix to produce appropriate betas and risk discount rates for each major product grouping.
CAPM does not include any allowance for non-market risks since these are assumed to be fully diversifiable.
For EEV purposes, however, a risk margin is added for non-diversifiable non-market risks and to cover Group level risks.
Diversifiable non-market risks No allowance is required for non-market risks where these are assumed to be fully diversifiable.
The majority of non-market risks are considered to be diversifiable.
Non-diversifiable, non-market risks Finance theory cannot be used to determine the appropriate component of beta for non-diversifiable non-market risks since there is no observable risk premium associated with it that is akin to the equity risk premium.
Recognising this, a pragmatic approach has been used.
Except for UK shareholder-backed annuity business, a constant margin of 50 basis points 2007: 50 basis points has been added to the risk margin derived for market risk to cover the non-diversifiable non-market risks associated with the business.
For UK shareholder-backed annuity business, a margin of 100 basis points was used 2007: 100 basis points.
d Management actions In deriving the time value of financial options and guarantees, management actions in response to emerging investment and fund solvency conditions have been modelled.
Management actions encompass, but are not confined to, the following areas: investment allocation decisions: levels of reversionary bonuses and credited rates: and total claim values.
Bonus rates are projected from current levels and varied in accordance with assumed management actions applying in the emerging investment and fund solvency conditions.
In all instances, the modelled actions are in accordance with approved local practice and therefore reflect the options actually available to management.
For the PAC with-profits fund, the actions assumed are consistent with those set out in the Principles and Practices of Financial Management.
e With-profits business and the treatment of the estate For the PAC with-profits fund, the shareholders interest in the estate is derived by increasing final bonus rates so as to exhaust the estate over the lifetime of the in-force with-profits business.
In those few extreme scenarios where the total assets of the life fund are insufficient to meet policyholder claims in full, the excess cost is fully attributed to shareholders.
325 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 2 Methodology continued f Pension costs The Group operates three defined benefit schemes in the UK.
The principal scheme is the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme PSPS.
The other two, much smaller, schemes are the Scottish Amicable and M&G schemes.
There is also a small scheme in Taiwan.
Under IFRS the surpluses or deficits attaching to these schemes are accounted for in accordance with the provisions of IAS 19 that effectively apply the principles of IFRIC 14, which was adopted in 2008 providing guidance on assessing the limit in IAS 19 on the amount of surplus in a defined benefit pension scheme that can be recognised as an asset.
For PSPS the surplus or deficit at the reporting date is allocated between the PAC with-profits fund and shareholder-backed operations by reference to the activities of the members of the scheme during their period of service.
At 31 December 2005, the deficit of PSPS was apportioned in the ratio 70 30 between the with-profits fund and shareholder-backed operations following detailed consideration of the sourcing of previous contributions.
This ratio was applied to the base deficit position at 1 January 2006 for the purposes of determining the allocation of the movement in that position up to 31 December 2008.
Under the EEV basis the IAS 19 basis surpluses to the extent not restricted under IFRIC 14 or deficits are initially allocated in the same manner.
The shareholders 10 per cent interest in the PAC with-profits fund estate is determined after inclusion of the portion of the IAS 19 basis surpluses or deficits attributable to the fund.
Adjustments under EEV in respect of accounting for surpluses or deficits on defined benefit schemes are reflected as part of Other operations, as shown in note 15.
Separately, the projected cash flows of in-force covered business include contributions to the defined benefit schemes for future service based on the contribution basis applying to the schemes at the time of the preparation of the results.
g Debt capital Core structural debt liabilities are carried at market value.
3 Assumptions a Best estimate assumptions Best estimate assumptions are used for the cash flow projections, where best estimate is defined as the mean of the distribution of future possible outcomes.
The assumptions are reviewed actively and changes are made when evidence exists that material changes in future experience are reasonably certain.
Assumptions required in the calculation of the value of options and guarantees, for example relating to volatilities and correlations, or dynamic algorithms linking liabilities to assets, have been set equal to the best estimates and, wherever material and practical, reflect any dynamic relationships between the assumptions and the stochastic variables.
b Principal economic assumptions Deterministic assumptions In most countries, the long-term expected rates of return on investments and risk discount rates are set by reference to period end rates of return on cash or fixed interest securities.
For the Groups Asian operations, the active basis is appropriate for business written in Japan, Korea and US dollar denominated business written in Hong Kong.
Except in respect of the projected returns of holdings of Asian debt and equity securities for those countries where long-term fixed interest markets are less established, the active basis of assumption setting has been applied in preparing the results of all the Groups US and UK long-term business operations.
For countries where long-term fixed interest markets are less established, investment return assumptions and risk discount rates are based on an assessment of longer-term economic conditions.
Except for the countries listed above, this basis is appropriate for the Groups Asian operations.
Similarly, the projected returns on holdings of Asian securities in these territories by other Group businesses are set on the same basis.
Expected returns on equity and property asset classes in respect of each territory are derived by adding a risk premium, also based on the long-term view of Prudentials economists, to the risk-free rate.
In Asia, equity risk premiums range from 3.0 per cent to 7.0 per cent 2007: 3.0 per cent to 6.0 per cent.
In the US and the UK, the equity risk premium is 4.0 per cent above risk-free rates for both 2008 and 2007.
Assumed investment returns reflect the expected future returns on the assets held and allocated to the covered business at the valuation date.
326 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Financial statements EEV The tables below summarise the principal financial assumptions: 31 Dec 2008 % 31 Dec 2007 % China Hong Kong India Indonesia Japan Korea China Hong Kong India Indonesia Japan Korea Asian operations notes iii, iv, v notes iii, iv, v Risk discount rate: New business 11.75 3.8 14.25 15.25 4.8 8.2 11.75 5.7 15.75 16.75 5.1 9.7 In force 11.75 3.9 14.25 15.25 4.8 8.2 11.75 6.0 15.75 16.75 5.1 9.7 Expected long-term rate of inflation 4.0 2.25 5.0 6.0 0.7 2.75 4.0 2.25 5.0 6.0 0.0 2.75 Government bond yield 8.25 2.3 9.25 10.25 1.6 4.3 8.25 4.1 9.25 10.25 2.0 5.8 31 Dec 2008 % 31 Dec 2007 % Malaysia Philippines Singapore Taiwan Thailand Vietnam Malaysia Philippines Singapore Taiwan Thailand Vietnam Asian operations notes iv, v notes iv, v notes ii, v notes iv, v notes iv, v notes ii, v Risk discount rate: New business 9.1 15.75 6.15 9.1 13.0 16.75 9.3 15.75 6.4 9.1 13.0 16.75 In force 9.0 15.75 6.85 9.7 13.0 16.75 9.1 15.75 6.8 9.8 13.0 16.75 Expected long-term rate of inflation 2.75 5.0 1.75 2.25 3.0 6.0 2.75 5.0 1.75 2.25 3.0 6.0 Government bond yield 6.5 9.25 4.25 5.5 6.75 10.25 6.5 9.25 4.25 5.5 6.75 10.25 2008 m 31 Dec 2008 % 31 Dec 2007 % Asia total Asia total note i Weighted risk discount rate: New business 8.8 9.5 In force 7.8 8.7 Notes i The weighted risk discount rates for Asian operations shown above have been determined by weighting each countrys risk discount rates by reference to the EEV basis operating result for new business and the closing value of in-force business.
ii For traditional business in Taiwan, the economic scenarios used to calculate the 2008 and 2007 EEV basis results reflect the assumption of a phased progression of the bond yields from the current rates applying to the assets held to the long-term expected rates.
For 2008 the projections assume that in the average scenario, the current bond yields at 31 December 2008 of 1.4 per cent trend towards 5.5 per cent at 31 December 2018.
This compares to the 2007 results for which the projections assume that in the average scenario, the current bond yields at 31 December 2007 of around 2.5 per cent trend towards 5.5 per cent at 31 December 2013.
The expected long-term rate is a function of expectation of inflation and real rates of interest, on which the Company has taken external expert advice.
It is considered that the outlook for long-term interest rates in Asia will be strongly influenced by the trend in the projection of comparable US long-term real interest rates.
Consequently, assessment of the expected rates for Taiwan has taken into account the structural factors of government borrowing, savings rates, short-term interest rates, government intervention and non-market influences that could affect Taiwanese real interest rates over the projection period.
Together with a central inflation projection for Taiwan, the Company considers that the long-term rate of 5.5 per cent is appropriate in the longer-term.
In projecting forward the Fund Earned Rate, allowance is made for the mix of assets in the fund, future investment strategy, and further market value depreciation of bonds held as a result of assumed future yield increases.
These factors, together with the assumption of the phased progression in bond yields, give rise to an average assumed Fund Earned Rate that changes from 6.6 per cent for 2008 to 6.7 per cent for 2019.
The assumed Fund Earned Rate falls to 3.35 per cent in 2009 and subsequently to 1.2 per cent in 2010, then increases to 5.15 per cent by 2018.
Thereafter, the assumed Fund Earned Rate fluctuates around a target of 6.7 per cent.
This projection compares with that applied for the 2007 results of a grading from an assumed rate of 0.5 per cent for 2007 to 6.4 per cent for 2014.
Consistent with the EEV methodology applied, a constant discount rate has been applied to the projected cash flows.
On 20 February 2009, the Company announced that it had agreed to transfer the agency business of the Taiwan Life business to China Life.
Further details are given in note 21. iii The assumptions shown are for US dollar denominated business which comprises the largest proportion of the in-force Hong Kong business.
iv The mean equity return assumptions for the most significant equity holdings in the Asian operations were: 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007 %% Hong Kong 6.2 8.1 Malaysia 12.5 12.5 Singapore 10.2 9.3 To obtain the mean, an average over all simulations of the accumulated return at the end of the projection period is calculated.
The annual average return is then calculated by taking the root of the average accumulated return minus 1. v For 2008 and 2007, cash rates rather than government bond yields were used in setting the risk discount rates for Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan and for Hong Kong dollar denominated business.
327 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 3 Assumptions continued note ii US operations Jackson 31 Dec 2008 % 31 Dec 2007 % note i Risk discount rate: New business 4.6 7.0 In force 3.9 6.0 Expected long-term spread between earned rate and rate credited to policyholders for single premium deferred annuity business 1.75 1.75 US 10-year treasury bond rate at end of period 2.3 4.1 Pre-tax expected long-term nominal rate of return for US equities 6.3 8.1 Expected long-term rate of inflation 1.5 2.4 Notes i The risk discount rates at 31 December 2008 for new business and business in-force for US operations reflect weighted rates based on underlying rates of 6.2 per cent for variable annuity VA business and 3.0 per cent for other business.
The decrease in the weighted discount rates reflects the decrease in the US 10-year treasury bond rate of 180 bps and a change in the product mix with the 2008 results seeing an increase in the proportion of new and in-force business arising from other than VA business.
ii Credit risk treatment The projected cash flows incorporate the expected long-term spread between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders.
The projected earned rates reflect book value yields which are adjusted over time to reflect projected reinvestment rates.
The expected spread incorporates a Risk Margin Reserve RMR allowance of 25 basis points for longer-term defaults as described in note 4b.
In the event that longer-term default levels are higher then, unlike for UK annuity business where policyholder benefits are not changeable, Jackson has some discretion to adjust crediting rates, subject to contract guarantee levels and general market competition considerations.
The results for Jackson reflect the application of the low discount rates shown above.
In the event that US 10-year treasury rates increase, the altered embedded value results would reflect a lower contribution from fixed annuity business and a partially offsetting increase for variable annuity business as the projected earned rate, as well as the discount rate, would increase for this type of business.
The book value yields, net of RMR allowance, are in excess of the risk discount rate.
To correct for the anomalous effect that would otherwise occur no credit has been taken for the cost of capital benefit that this feature would give rise to for fixed annuity business.
note iv UK insurance operations 31 Dec 2008 % 31 Dec 2007 % Shareholder-backed annuity business: note i Risk discount rate: New business 9.6 7.8 In force 12.0 7.8 note iii Pre-tax expected long-term nominal rate of return for shareholder-backed annuity business : Fixed annuities 6.4 to 6.7 5.4 to 5.6 Inflation-linked annuities 5.7 to 5.8 5.0 to 5.2 Other business: notes ii, iv Risk discount rate: New business 6.7 7.0 In force 6.75 7.9 Pre-tax expected long-term nominal rates of investment return: UK equities 7.7 8.55 Overseas equities 6.3 to10.25 8.1 to 10.2 Property 6.0 6.8 Gilts 3.7 4.55 note v Corporate bonds with-profits funds 5.2 6.0 other business 5.2 6.25 Expected long-term rate of inflation 3.0 3.2 Post-tax expected long-term nominal rate of return for the PAC with-profits fund: Pension business where no tax applies 6.6 7.85 Life business 5.8 6.9 Notes i The new business risk discount rate for shareholder-backed annuity business for 2008 reflects the assets allocated to back new business with an allowance for credit risk based on point of sale market conditions, consistent with how the business was priced.
The allowance for credit risk for new business at point of sale is determined using the same methodology for in-force business described in note iv below.
ii The risk discount rates for new business and business in force for UK insurance operations other than shareholder-backed annuities reflect weighted rates based on the type of business.
328 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Financial statements EEV iii The pre-tax rates of return for shareholder-backed annuity business are based on the gross redemption yield on the backing assets net of a best estimate allowance for future defaults.
iv Credit spread treatment For with-profits business, the embedded value reflects the discounted value of future shareholder transfers.
These transfers are directly affected by the level of projected rates of return on investments, including debt securities.
Given the current exceptional fixed interest market conditions, and the Companys expectation that the widening of credit spreads observed in 2008 will not be maintained, the Company considers that it is most appropriate to assume an unchanged level of credit spreads, an unchanged level of longer-term default allowance and an unchanged risk discount rate methodology relative to those used at 31 December 2007.
For UK annuity business, different dynamics apply both in terms of the nature of the business and the EEV methodology applied.
For this type of business the assets are generally held to maturity to match long duration liabilities.
It is therefore appropriate under EEV methodology to include a liquidity premium in the economic basis used.
The appropriate EEV risk discount rate is set in order to equate the EEV with a market consistent embedded value including liquidity premium.
The liquidity premium is derived from the yield on the assets held after deducting an appropriate allowance for credit risk.
For Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL, which has approximately 90 per cent of UK shareholder-backed annuity business, the allowance for credit risk at 31 December 2008 is made up of: a 16 bps for fixed annuities and 13 bps for inflation-linked annuities in respect of long-term expected defaults: this is derived by applying Moodys data from 1970 onwards uplifted by between 100 per cent B and 200 per cent AAA according to credit rating, to the asset portfolios.
b 11 bps for fixed annuities and 9 bps for inflation-linked annuities in respect of long-term credit risk premium for the potential volatility in default levels: this is derived by applying the 95th worst percentile from Moodys data from 1970 onwards, to the asset portfolios.
c 56 bps for fixed annuities and 48 bps for inflation-linked annuities in respect of additional short-term credit risk, reflecting the extreme market conditions at 31 December 2008: this is derived as 25 per cent of the increase in credit spreads over swaps that has occurred since 31 December 2006 based on a set of externally published indices weighted to reflect the asset mix.
On a weighted basis for fixed annuities and inflation-linked annuities the allowance is 15 bps for long-term expected defaults, 11 bps for long-term credit risk premium, and 54 bps for short-term credit risk.
Pillar I reserves are calculated using a similar allowance for credit risk.
For EEV reporting the allowance for short-term credit risk is assumed to be released gradually over the five year period following the valuation date.
The Pillar I allowance of 80 bps per annum is financially equivalent to 185 bps for the years 2009 to 2011 and 45 bps thereafter for the life of the book.
The overall allowance for credit risk is prudent by comparison with historic rates of default and would be sufficient to withstand a wide range of extreme credit events over the expected lifetime of the annuity business.
The risk discount rate for new business profits reflects the assets allocated to back new business and an allowance for credit risk based on point of sale market conditions, consistent with how the business was priced.
The allowance for credit risk at the point of sale is determined using the same methodology for in-force business.
In both cases, the allowance for credit risk included in setting the discount rate reflects the three constituent elements of long-term expected defaults, long-term credit risk premiums, and additional short-term credit risk.
v The assumed long-term rate for corporate bonds for 2007 for with-profits business was determined after taking account of the purchase of credit default swaps.
Stochastic assumptions The economic assumptions used for the stochastic calculations are consistent with those used for the deterministic calculations described above.
Assumptions specific to the stochastic calculations, such as the volatilities of asset returns, reflect local market conditions and are based on a combination of actual market data, historic market data and an assessment of longer-term economic conditions.
Common principles have been adopted across the Group for the stochastic asset models, for example, separate modelling of individual asset classes but with allowance for correlation between the various asset classes.
Details are given below of the key characteristics and calibrations of each model.
Asian operations The same asset return models as used in the UK, appropriately calibrated, have been used for the Asian operations as described for UK insurance operations below.
The principal asset classes are government and corporate bonds.
Equity holdings are much lower than in the UK whilst property holdings do not represent a significant investment asset.
The stochastic cost of guarantees is primarily only of significance for the Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore and Taiwan operations.
The mean stochastic returns are consistent with the mean deterministic returns for each country.
The expected volatility of equity returns for 2008 ranges from 18 per cent to 30 per cent 2007: 18 per cent to 25 per cent, and the volatility of government bond yields ranges from 1.4 per cent to 2.4 per cent 2007: 1.3 per cent to 2.5 per cent.
US operations Jackson Interest rates are projected using a log-normal generator calibrated to actual market data: Corporate bond returns are based on Treasury securities plus a spread that has been calibrated to current market conditions and varies by credit quality: and Variable annuity equity and bond returns have been stochastically generated using a log-normal model with parameters determined by reference to historical data.
The volatility of equity fund returns for both 2008 and 2007 ranges from 18.6 per cent to 28.1 per cent, depending on risk class, and the standard deviation of bond returns ranges from 1.5 per cent to 1.6 per cent 2007: 1.4 per cent to 1.7 per cent.
329 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 3 Assumptions continued UK insurance operations Interest rates are projected using a two-factor model calibrated to actual market data: The risk premium on equity assets is assumed to follow a log-normal distribution: The corporate bond return is calculated as the return on a zero-coupon bond plus a spread.
The spread process is a mean reverting stochastic process: and Property returns are modelled in a similar fashion to corporate bonds, namely as the return on a riskless bond, plus a risk premium, plus a process representative of the change in residual values and the change in value of the call option on rents.
Mean returns have been derived as the annualised arithmetic average return across all simulations and durations.
For each projection year, standard deviations have been calculated by taking the square root of the annualised variance of the returns over all the simulations.
These have been averaged over all durations in the projection.
For equity and property, the standard deviations relate to the total return on these assets.
The standard deviations applied to both 2008 and 2007 are as follows: % Equities: UK 18.0 Overseas 16.0 Property 15.0 c Demographic assumptions Persistency, mortality and morbidity assumptions are based on an analysis of recent experience but also reflect expected future experience.
Where relevant, when calculating the time value of financial options and guarantees, policyholder withdrawal rates vary in line with the emerging investment conditions according to managements expectations.
d Expense assumptions Expense levels, including those of service companies that support the Groups long-term business operations, are based on internal expense analysis investigations and are appropriately allocated to acquisition of new business and renewal of in-force business.
Exceptional expenses are identified and reported separately.
Corporate expenditure for Group Head Office, to the extent not allocated to the PAC with-profits fund, Asia development and Regional Head Office expenses are charged to EEV basis results as incurred.
No adjustment is made to the embedded value of covered business.
e Inter-company arrangements The EEV results for covered business incorporate the effect of the reinsurance arrangement of non-profit immediate pension annuity liabilities of SAIF to PRIL.
In addition, the analysis of free surplus and value of in-force business takes account of the impact of contingent loan arrangements between Group companies.
f Taxation and other legislation Current taxation and other legislation have been assumed to continue unaltered except where changes have been announced and the relevant legislation passed.
g Asset management and service companies The value of future profits or losses from asset management and service companies that support the Groups covered businesses are included in the profits for new business and the in-force value of the Groups long-term business.
4 Accounting presentation a Analysis of profit before tax To the extent applicable, presentation of the EEV profit for the year is consistent with the basis that the Group applies for analysis of IFRS basis profits before shareholder taxes between operating and non-operating results.
Operating results reflect the underlying results of the Groups continuing operations including longer-term investment returns.
Operating results include the impact of routine changes of estimates and non-economic assumptions.
Non operating results comprise short-term fluctuations in investment returns, the shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes, the mark to market value movements on core borrowings and the effect of changes in economic assumptions and changes in the time value of cost of options and guarantees.
330 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Financial statements EEV b Operating profit Investment returns, including investment gains, in respect of long-term insurance business are recognised in operating results at the expected long-term rate of return.
For the purpose of calculating the longer-term investment return to be included in the operating results of UK operations, where equity holdings are a significant proportion of investment portfolios, values of assets at the beginning of the reporting period are adjusted to remove the effects of short-term market volatility.
For the purposes of determining the long-term returns for debt securities of shareholder-backed operations, a risk margin charge is included which reflects the expected long-term rate of default based on the credit quality of the portfolio.
For Jackson, interest-related realised gains and losses are amortised to the operating results over the maturity period of the sold bonds and for equity-related investments, a long-term rate of return is assumed, which reflects the aggregation of risk-free rates and equity risk premium.
For US variable annuity separate account business, operating profit reflects the expected longer-term rate of return with the excess or deficit of the actual return recognised within non-operating profit, together with the related hedging activity.
For UK annuity business, rebalancing of the asset portfolio backing the liabilities to policyholders may from time to time take place to align it more closely with the internal benchmark of credit quality that management applies.
Such rebalancing will result in a change in the risk adjusted yield on the assets used to determine the valuation interest rate for calculating the carrying value of policyholder liabilities.
Operating profit includes the effect of rebalancing the portfolio calibrated to investment conditions at 31 December 2006 i. e. prior to the exceptional spread widening in 2007 and 2008.
Non-operating profit incorporates the effect of rebalancing calibrated by reference to changes to credit spreads since 31 December 2006. c Pension costs Profit before tax Movements on the shareholders share of surplus to the extent not restricted by IFRIC 14 and deficits of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes adjusted for contributions paid in the year are recorded within the income statement.
Consistent with the basis of distribution of bonuses and the treatment of the estate described in notes 2d and 2e, the shareholders share incorporates 10 per cent of the proportion of the surpluses or deficits attributable to the PAC with-profits fund.
The surplus or deficit is determined by applying the requirements of IAS 19.
Actuarial gains and losses Actuarial gains and losses comprise: The difference between actual and expected return on the scheme assets: experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities: the impact of altered economic and other assumptions on the discounted value of scheme liabilities: and the movement in estimates of deficit funding requirements.
These items are recorded in the income statement but, consistent with the IFRS basis of presentation, are excluded from operating results.
d Effect of changes in economic assumptions and time value of cost of options and guarantees Movements in the value of in-force business caused by changes in economic assumptions and the time value of cost of options and guarantees resulting from changes in economic factors are recorded in non-operating results.
e Results for asset management operations The results of the Groups asset management operations include the profits from management of internal and external funds.
For EEV basis reporting, Group shareholders other income is adjusted to deduct the expected margin for the year on management of covered business.
The deduction is on a basis consistent with that used for projecting the results for covered business.
Group operating profit accordingly includes the variance between actual and expected profit in respect of covered business.
f Capital held centrally for Asian operations Previously, for the purpose of presentation of the Groups operating results, the return on capital held centrally to back the economic capital requirements for the Taiwan life business has been allocated to the operating result for Asian operations with a consequent reduction in Group shareholders other income for EEV basis reporting.
In the 2008 results this approach has no longer been applied.
The presentation of the 2007 comparative results has been adjusted accordingly, as explained in note 6 ii b. gTaxation The EEV profit for the year for covered business is in most cases calculated initially at the post-tax level.
The post-tax profit is then grossed up for presentation purposes at the effective rate of tax.
In general, the effective rate corresponds to the corporation tax rate on shareholder profits of the business concerned.
331 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 4 Accounting presentation continued h Foreign currency translation Foreign currency profits and losses have been translated at average exchange rates for the year.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities have been translated at year end rates of exchange.
The purpose of translating the profits and losses at average exchange rates, notwithstanding the fact that EEV profit represents the incremental value added on a discounted cash flow basis, is to maintain consistency with the methodology applied for IFRS basis reporting.
The amounts shown are not, and not intended to be, reflective of premium income recorded in the IFRS income statement.
Annual premiums and contribution equivalents are calculated as the aggregate of regular new business amounts and one-tenth of single new business amounts.
PVNBPs are calculated as equalling single premiums plus the present value of expected premiums of new regular premium business, allowing for lapses and other assumptions made in determining the EEV new business contribution.
New business premiums reflect those premiums attaching to covered business, including premiums for contracts classified as investment products for IFRS basis reporting.
New business premiums for regular premium products are shown on an annualised basis.
Department of Work and Pensions DWP rebate business is classified as single recurrent business.
Internal vesting business is classified as new business where the contracts include an open market option.
ii The table above include for 2007 the transfer of 62,000 with-profits annuity policies from Equitable Life on 31 December 2007 with assets of approximately 1.7 billion.
The transfer represented an APE of 174 million.
iii Subsequent to 29 September 2007 following expiry of the previous management agreement CITICPrudential Life Insurance Company Ltd CITIC-Prudential, the Groups life operation in China, has been accounted for as a 50 per cent joint venture.
Prior to this date CITICPrudential was consolidated as a subsidiary undertaking.
All premiums for CITICPrudential are shown at 50 per cent on a like for like basis, reflecting the constant economic interest before and after the management changes in line with the original agreement with CITIC.
iv The table above for full year 2008 and 2007 reflect the inclusion of the Groups UK health insurance joint venture operation, PruHealth.
b Operating profit 2008m 2007m Post-tax Post-tax Pre-tax Tax Note 17 a ii Pre-tax Tax Note 17 a ii Asian operations 741 191 550 643 170 473 note i US operations 293 103 190 285 100 185 UK insurance operations 273 76 197 277 77 200 Total 1,307 370 937 1,205 347 858 Note i US Operations net of tax profit: 2008 2007 m m Before capital charge 193 197 Capital charge 3 12 After capital charge 190 185 In determining the EEV basis value of new business written in the year the policies incept, premiums are included in projected cash flows on the same basis of distinguishing annual and single premium business as set out for statutory basis reporting.
Included within pre-tax new business profits shown in the table above are profits arising from asset management business falling within the scope of covered business of: 2008 m 2007 m Asian operations 35 44 US operations 4 1 UK insurance operations 13 11 Total 52 56 334 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Financial statements EEV c Margins 2008 m 2008 % Annual Present value premium and of new contribution business Pre-tax new New business premiums New business margin equivalent premiums business Single Regular APE PVNBP contribution APE PVNBP notes i, ii Asian operations 1,457 1,216 1,362 7,308 741 54 10.1 US operations 6,917 24 716 7,140 293 41 4.1 note iii UK insurance operations 6,929 254 947 8,081 273 29 3.4 Total 15,303 1,494 3,025 22,529 1,307 43 5.8 2007 m 2007 % Annual Present value premium and of new contribution business Pre-tax new New business premiums New business margin equivalent premiums business Single Regular APE PVNBP contribution APE PVNBP notes i, ii Asian operations 1,793 1,108 1,287 6,906 643 50 9.3 US operations 6,515 19 671 6,666 285 42 4.3 note iii UK insurance operations 6,632 247 910 7,736 277 30 3.6 Total 14,940 1,374 2,868 21,308 1,205 42 5.7 New business margin APE APE 2008 % 2007 % Asian operations: Hong Kong 79 73 Korea 34 37 note i Taiwan 59 58 India 19 12 note ii China 52 50 Indonesia 58 55 Other 72 61 Weighted average for all Asian operations 54 50 Notes i The results for Asian operations include those of the Taiwanese life operations for which the Company agreed to transfer its agency business to China Life on 20 February 2009.
Details are included in note 21. ii The tables for Asian operations above reflect the inclusion of CITIC-Prudential Life Insurance Company Ltd, the Groups life operation in China as a 50 per cent held joint venture for 2008 and 2007 reflecting the economic interest throughout both years described in note a iii above.
Previously, for presentational purposes, the 2007 results reflected the inclusion of CITIC-Prudential as a subsidiary undertaking up to 29 September 2007 and 50 per cent thereafter following the change of management arrangement after this date, with appropriate minority interest accounting to reflect the 50 per cent economic interest.
The presentation of the operating profit for 2007 has been adjusted to allocate 10 million of profit from the result for new business to business in-force to prevent distortion of the published new business margin.
iii To align with the treatment in the 2008 results, the tables for UK insurance operations above for 2007 reflect the inclusion of the Groups UK health insurance joint venture operation, PruHealth, with an APE of 13 million and PVNBP of 107 million.
335 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 5 Premiums, operating profit and margins from new business continued New business margins are shown on two bases, namely the margins by reference to Annual Premium and Contribution Equivalents APE and the Present Value of New Business Premiums PVNBP.
In general, as described in note 2a, the use of point of sale or end of period economic assumptions is not significant in determining the new business contribution for different types of business and across financial reporting periods.
However, to obtain proper measurement of the new business contribution for business which is interest rate sensitive, it is appropriate to use point of sale economic assumptions, consistent with how the business was priced.
In practice, the only area within the Group where this has a material effect, particularly in light of the dislocation of markets in 2008, is for UK shareholder-backed annuity and lifetime mortgage business.
The 2008 results for shareholder-backed annuity and lifetime mortgage business have been prepared on the basis of point of sale rather than end of period economic assumptions which previously applied for EEV reporting.
New business profits would have been 111 million lower if end of year economic assumptions had been applied.
The reduction is reflected in non-operating profit.
The 111 million primarily reflects the level of credit spread widening since the point of sale.
For 2007, the effect of the use of point of sale market conditions would not have been material.
New business contributions for all business represent profits determined by applying non-economic assumptions as at the end of the year.
6 Operating profit from business in force 2008 m 2007 m note ii Asian operations note i Unwind of discount and other expected returns 434 340 a note ii Changes in operating assumptions 135 54 b note ii Experience variances and other items 1 5 568 399 note iii US operations note i Unwind of discount and other expected returns: On value of in-force business and required capital 176 187 On surplus assets 57 53 a note iii Spread experience variance 54 99 Amortisation of interest-related realised gains and losses 28 37 b note iii Changes in operating assumptions 17 24 Other 5 10 293 342 note iv UK insurance operations note i Unwind of discount and other expected returns 569 592 a note iv Effect of change in UK corporate tax rate 67 b note iv Annuity business: Mortality strengthening 312 Release of margins 312 c note iv Other items 195 81 764 578 Total 1,625 1,319 Notes i For Asian operations and UK insurance operations, unwind of discount and other expected returns is determined by reference to the value of in-force business, required capital and surplus assets at the start of the year as adjusted for the effect of changes in economic and operating assumptions reflected in the current year.
For the unwind of discount for UK insurance operations included in operating results based on longer-term returns a further adjustment is made.
For UK insurance operations the amount represents the unwind of discount on the value of in-force business at the beginning of the year adjusted for the effect of current year assumption changes, the expected return on smoothed surplus assets retained within the PAC with-profits fund and the expected return on shareholders assets held in other UK long-term business operations.
Surplus assets retained within the PAC with-profits fund are smoothed for this purpose to remove the effects of short-term investment volatility from operating results.
In the balance sheet and for total profit reporting, asset values and investment returns are not smoothed.
For US operations the return on surplus assets is shown separately.
336 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Financial statements EEV ii Asian operations a Changes in operating assumptions The effect of changes in operating assumptions represent the following: 2008 2007 m m note 1 Mortality and morbidity 58 17 note 2 Expense 26 51 note 3 Persistency 36 51 note 4 Effect of change in corporate tax rates 15 32 Other 5 135 54 1 The favourable effect of 58 million relating to mortality and morbidity assumption changes mainly relates to Singapore of 34 million, Taiwan of 18 million and Hong Kong of 15 million, which reflect actual experience across most products, offset by a charge in Malaysia of 19 million which reflects negative morbidity experience on A&H products.
2 The favourable overall net effect of 26 million for expense assumption changes in 2008 mainly relates to a reduction in investment management expenses.
The credit of 51 million for 2007 mainly relates to Singapore 37 million and Korea 21 million both due to increases in investment margins.
3 The favourable effect of the change in persistency assumptions of 36 million in 2008 predominately arises in Singapore of 90 million, Hong Kong of 28 million and Malaysia of 21 million which reflect altered lapse rates, arising from recent experience, offset by charges in Taiwan of 45 million and Korea of 44 million mainly relating to premium holidays.
The charge of 51 million for the effect of changes in persistency assumptions in 2007 mainly arise in Singapore 29 million as a result of changes in a number of product related features and updated maturity assumptions in Taiwan 15 million from an increase in lapse rates, reflecting recent experience.
4 The effect of change in corporate tax rates represents the effect of incorporating the benefit arising from the reduction in the corporate tax rate in Indonesia for 2008 and in China, Malaysia and Singapore for 2007. b Experience variances and other items Experience variances and other items of a charge of 1 million 2007: credit of 5 million include a credit of 36 million 2007: 47 million for favourable mortality and morbidity experience variance relating to better than expected experience across most territories, offset by a charge of 34 million 2007: 27 million for expense experience variances and 3 million 2007: 4 million of other charges.
Also for 2007 there is a charge of 11 million in respect of Vietnam for higher than expected investment fees payable on asset managers performance.
The negative expense experience variance of 34 million for 2008 includes 11 million arising in Korea, reflecting lower sales, and includes a charge of 9 million for expense overruns for China which is at a relatively early stage of development, for which the expenses for new business are in excess of the target levels factored into the valuation of new business.
On the basis of current plans the target level for expenses for this operation is planned to be attained in 2012.
The negative experience variance in 2007 of 27 million arose in China of 12 million and India of 15 million.
The 2007 comparative result has been increased by 10 million for the adjustment in respect of China as explained in note 5c and reduced by 4 million for the discontinuance of the allocation of notional return on centrally held economic capital in respect of Taiwan from shareholders other income to the result for Asian operations as explained in note 4f.
Other income is increased by an equivalent amount.
Total profits are unaffected by these adjustments.
iii US operations a Spread experience variance The spread assumption for Jackson is determined on a longer-term basis net of a provision for defaults, with impairment losses in excess of the provision for defaults taken through short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
b Changes in operating assumptions The effect of changes in operating assumptions for US operations is as follows: 2008 m note 1 Mortality 31 note 2 Variable annuity VA fees 29 Effect of adjustments for certain reserves, surplus note borrowings and required capital note 3 Interest Maintenance Reserve IMR 10 note 4 Variable Annuity Statutory Reserves 68 note 5 Required Capital 17 note 6 Surplus note borrowings note 7 Total 61 Other 16 Total 17 337 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 6 Operating profit from business in force continued Notes continued 1 The effect of changes in mortality assumptions reflect lower mortality rates for life products consistent with recent experience.
2 The effect of change in assumption in respect of VA fees represents an overall increase in the level of projected advisory fees for variable annuity business.
3 The IMR is a statutory liability in respect of realised gains on the sale of bonds which, on a regulatory basis, are amortised to income over time in line with the duration of the bonds sold.
The 2008 results reflect this reserve as an explicit liability, consistent with the regulatory basis which, after the effects of discounting results in a charge to embedded value of 10 million.
4 The statutory reserves are primarily in respect of guarantees on variable annuity products in excess of the surrender value.
The impact of including these amounts as explicit liabilities, consistent with the regulatory basis, after the effects of discounting, results in a charge to embedded value of 68 million.
5 The adjustment in respect of required capital represents a current year refinement to reduce the required capital to align the amount with the required level which has been set as an amount at least equal to 235 per cent of the risk-based capital required by National Association of Insurance Commissioners at the Company Action Level, which is sufficient to meet the economic capital requirement.
The decrease results in an associated benefit from a reduction in the cost of capital of 17 million.
6 The surplus note borrowings have been reflected as contributing to the capital in the net worth but with the obligation deducted from the value of in-force business, with an overall net nil effect on the embedded value.
7 The adjustments in respect of the IMR, variable annuity reserves, surplus note borrowings and required capital detailed in 3 to 6 above also resulted in a post-tax net reallocation from free surplus and required capital of 110 million and 137 million respectively to the value of in-force of 207 million, as detailed in note 17a.
iv UK insurance operations a Effect of change in UK corporate tax rate The comparative results for 2007 of 67 million reflect the effects of the change to reduce the UK corporate tax rate from 30 per cent to 28 per cent in projecting the tax cash flows attaching to in-force business.
b Annuity business For UK insurance operations there is a net nil charge or credit for the 2008 and 2007 results.
However, the 2007 results for annuity business have been determined after a strengthening of explicit mortality assumptions and the release of excess margins in the aggregate liabilities that had previously been set aside as an indirect extra allowance for longevity related risks.
The overall impact of the assumption changes and release of margins for 2007 is as follows: 2007 m Strengthening of mortality assumptions 312 Release of margins: Projected benefit related 144 Investment related 82 Expense related 29 Other 57 312 0 c Other items Other items for UK insurance operations in 2008 are in aggregate a credit of 195 million.
Consistent with the methodology applied in previous years, this amount includes a credit of 118 million resulting from part of the effect of rebalancing the asset portfolio backing annuity business on the valuation interest rate for determining Pillar I liabilities.
The rebalancing reflects changes to the portfolio to more closely align the credit quality with management benchmark.
The 118 million effect of rebalancing included in operating profit reflects longer-term levels of credit spread evident as at 31 December 2006 i. e. prior to the exceptional credit spread widening in 2007 and 2008.
The additional increase in the Pillar I valuation interest rate due to rebalancing at the credit spreads at which assets were traded in 2008 is reflected within non-operating profit together with, via the increase in discount rate, the additional allowance for credit risk for the portfolio as a whole as described in note 12.
The 195 million credit also includes a cost of capital charge of 34 million for the effect of holding the short-term credit risk reserve for statutory reporting, as described in note 3b, and releasing it over an assumed five year period.
Also included in operating profit for business in-force is a credit of 56 million in respect of the release of certain annuity business reserves, a credit of 24 million in respect of the release of prior period provisions relating to Credit Life business, and a net credit of 31 million for other items.
The charge of 81 million for 2007 includes 13 million in respect of annual licence fee payments, 36 million of costs associated with product and distribution development, 14 million for expense over-runs in respect of a tariff agreement with SAIF and 19 million for other items which includes a credit of 1 million for a positive persistency experience.
The annual licence fee payments are made by shareholder-backed subsidiaries of UK insurance operations, via a service company, to the PAC with-profits sub-fund for the right to use trademarks and for the goodwill associated with the purchase of the business of the Scottish Amicable Life Assurance Society in 1997.
The licence fee arrangements run to 2017.
For 2007, the expense over-runs arising from the tariff arrangement in respect of SAIF of 14 million were borne by a service company.
The arrangement was in place until the end of 2007 and was onerous to shareholders.
The 2007 comparative result has been reduced by 4 million in respect of the separate disclosure of UK general insurance commission.
Total operating profit from UK insurance operations is unaffected by this adjustment.
338 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Financial statements EEV 7 Investment return and other income 2008 m 2007 m IFRS basis 89 86 Less: projected asset management result in respect of covered business incorporated in opening EEV value of in-force business 42 37 EEV basis 47 49 8 Restructuring costs Restructuring costs have been incurred as follows: 2008 m 2007 m UK insurance operations 14 8 Unallocated corporate 18 12 Total 32 20 The charge of 32 million 2007: 20 million comprises 28 million 2007: 19 million recognised on the IFRS basis and an additional 4 million 2007: 1 million recognised on the EEV basis for the shareholders share of costs incurred by the PAC with-profits fund.
9 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 2008 m 2007 m Insurance operations: note i Asia 1,063 226 note ii US 1,344 9 note iii UK 2,407 42 note iv Other operations 313 1 Total 5,127 174 Notes i Asian operations 2008 m Singapore 310 Hong Kong 284 Taiwan 163 Other operations 306 1,063 For Singapore and Hong Kong, the short-term fluctuations in investment returns primarily reflects the effect of substantial equity market falls on unit-linked and with-profits business.
For unit-linked business, the short-term fluctuation in investment returns reflects the reduction in the value of the asset base and the consequent effect on the projection of future management fees.
For with-profits business, the short-term fluctuation in investment returns reflects the difference between the shareholders 10 per cent interest in the value movements on the assets and the unwind of discount on the opening shareholders interest in the surplus.
The short-term fluctuations in investment returns for Taiwan principally reflect the equity market fall and a 40 million value reduction for an investment in a CDO fund.
For 2007, the short-term fluctuations in investment returns for Asian operations of 226 million arose mainly from favourable equity investment performance in most territories, principally in Hong Kong of 102 million, Vietnam of 66 million and Singapore of 38 million offset by a negative fluctuation in Taiwan of 26 million principally due to a 30 million value reduction for an investment in a CDO fund.
339 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 9 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns continued Notes continued ii US operations The short-term fluctuations in investment returns for US operations primarily reflect the impact of impairment losses on debt securities and the effects on the value of variable annuity business of adverse movements in US equity markets.
The fluctuations for US operations comprise the following items: 2008 2007 m m Realised impairment losses: Actual losses on fixed income securities 466 78 Less: Risk margin charge included in operating profit 54 48 412 30 Loss due to changed expectation of profits from fees on in-force variable annuity business in future periods based on current period equity returns, net of related hedging activity 733 16 Actual less longer-term return on equity-type securities 148 51 Other 51 14 1,344 9 This adjustment arises due to the market returns being lower than the assumed longer-term rate of return.
This gives rise to lower than expected year end values of variable annuity assets under management with a resulting effect on the projected value of future account values and hence future profitability from altered fees.
For 2008, the US equity market returns were approximately negative 38.5 per cent compared to the assumed longer-term rate of return of 5.8 per cent.
iii UK insurance operations The short-term fluctuations in investment returns for UK insurance operations for 2008 arise on the following types of business: 2008 m note a With-profits 2,083 note b Shareholder-backed annuity 213 note c Unit-linked and other 111 2,407 Notes a For with-profits business the charge represents the negative actual investment return on the PAC with-profits fund of 19.7 per cent against an assumed rate of 6.6 per cent.
b Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed annuity business represent the unrealised loss on surplus assets and default experience.
c The charge of 111 million relates primarily to unit-linked business and predominantly represents the capitalised loss of future fees from the fall in market values experienced during the year.
For 2007, the short-term fluctuations in investment returns for UK insurance operations of 42 million primarily reflects value movements on the bond holdings of PRILs shareholders funds due to the net effect of widened credit spreads and reduced interest rates together with the difference between the actual investment returns for the with-profits life fund of 7.2 per cent and the gross long-term assumed rate of 7.85 per cent.
iv Other operations Short-term fluctuations in investment returns of other operations arises from: 2008 m Sale of investment in India mutual fund in May 2008 giving rise to a transfer to operating profit of 47 million for the crystallised gain, and value reduction in the period, prior to sale, of 24 million 71 Unrealised value movements on swaps held centrally to manage Group assets and liabilities 38 Unrealised value movements, net of hedge effects, on Prudential Capitals bond portfolio 190 Unrealised value movements on a centrally held investment 14 313 340 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Financial statements EEV 10 Mark to market value movements on core borrowings 2008 m 2007 m US operations 37 9 Other operations 619 214 Total 656 223 Core borrowings of the Group are marked to market value under EEV.
The figures in the table above reflect the movement in the difference between market and IFRS carrying values.
As the liabilities are generally held to maturity or for the long term, no deferred tax asset or liability has been established on the difference compared to IFRS in carrying value.
Accordingly, no deferred tax charge is recorded in the results in respect of the 2008 credit of 656 million 2007: 223 million.
11 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes The loss of 15 million 2007: loss of 5 million included within the loss profit before tax reflects the shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes and can be analysed as follows: 2008 m 2007 m PSPS 5 M&G pension scheme 9 5 Scottish Amicable pension scheme 2 10 Taiwan 3 Total 15 5 On the EEV basis this charge gain includes a 10 per cent share of the actuarial gains and losses on the share attributable to the PAC with-profits fund for the Scottish Amicable Pension Scheme.
Consistent with the derecognition of the Companys interest in the underlying surplus for PSPS, under the change of accounting policy described in note 20, it is not appropriate to report actuarial gains and losses for PSPS.
The other losses for PSPS of 5 million represent the change during 2008 in the provision for the deficit funding obligation.
12 Effect of changes in economic assumptions and time value of cost of options and guarantees The losses profits on changes in economic assumptions and time value of cost of options and guarantees resulting from changes in economic factors for in-force business included within the loss profit from continuing operations before tax including actual investment returns arise as follows: 2008 m 2007 m Change in Change in time value time value Change in of cost of Change in of cost of economic options and economic options and assumptions guarantees Total assumptions guarantees Total note i Asian operations 34 8 26 201 9 210 note ii US operations 267 11 278 81 8 89 notes iii, iv UK insurance operations 783 50 833 466 17 449 Total 550 31 581 748 0 748 Notes i The effect of changes in economic assumptions in Asia for 2008 of a charge of 34 million includes a negative effect in Taiwan of 185 million reflecting a charge of 239 million for the impact of extending the phased bond yield progression period in Taiwan out by five years from 31 December 2013 to 31 December 2018, as described in note 3, offset by the impact in other territories, mainly reflecting the reduction in risk discount rates.
ii The credit for the effect of changes in economic assumptions for 2008 for US operations of 267 million primarily arises as a result of the impact of a change in the risk discount rate of 454 million, partially offset by the impact of a decrease in the variable annuity separate account return of 230 million, both movements reflecting the 180 bps reduction in the 10-year Treasury rate as shown in note 3b.
341 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 12 Effect of changes in economic assumptions and time value of cost of options and guarantees continued Notes continued iii The effect of changes in economic assumptions of a charge of 783 million for UK insurance operations comprises the effect of: Shareholderbacked With-profits annuity and other business business Total note a note b 2008 m m m Increase decrease in portfolio yields 83 1,082 999 Increase decrease in risk discount rates 394 668 274 Other changes 6 52 58 317 466 783 Notes a For shareholder-backed annuity business i. e. held in PRIL and the PAC non-profit sub-fund the impact of the change in risk discount rate of 394 million includes 400 million in respect of strengthening credit risk assumptions excluding the strengthening required in respect of the 2.8 billion rebalancing of the asset portfolios.
The impact of the change in portfolio yields of 83 million includes a profit of 231 million in respect of the rebalancing, calculated by reference to changes in credit spreads since 31 December 2006. b For with-profits and other business the decrease in fund earned rates and risk discount rates primarily reflects the reduction in gilt rates of 0.85 per cent.
iv The effect of changes in time value of cost of options and guarantees of a charge of 50 million primarily relates to with-profits business reflecting the effect of the reduction in fund earned rates, as described in iii b above.
13 Tax attributable to shareholders loss profit The tax credit charge comprises: 2008 m 2007 m Tax charge on operating profit from continuing operations based on longer-term investment returns note i Long-term business: notes ii, iii Asian operations 329 252 US operations 205 197 notes ii, iii UK insurance operations 269 236 803 685 Other operations 38 7 Total tax charge on operating profit from continuing operations based on longer-term investment returns 765 692 Tax credit charge on items not included in operating profit Tax credit charge on short-term fluctuations in investment returns 1,411 22 Tax credit charge on shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 3 0 Tax credit charge on effect of changes in economic assumptions and time value of cost of options and guarantees 122 213 Total tax credit charge on items not included in operating profit from continuing operations 1,536 235 Tax credit charge on loss profit on ordinary activities from continuing operations including tax note iv on actual investment returns 771 927 Notes i The profit for the year for covered business is in most cases calculated initially at the post-tax level.
The post-tax profit for covered business is then grossed up for presentation purposes at the effective rates of tax applicable to the countries and periods concerned.
In the UK, the effective rate is the UK corporation tax rate of 28 per cent which took effect from 1 April 2008.
For Jackson, the US federal tax rate of 35 per cent is applied to gross up movements on the value of in-force business.
Effects on statutory tax for the period affect the overall tax rate.
For Asia, similar principles apply subject to the availability of taxable profits.
ii Including tax relief on Asia development expenses and restructuring costs borne by UK insurance operations.
iii The tax charge for 2008 includes the notional tax gross up of 4 million attaching to the change of corporate tax rate in Indonesia and in 2007 of 26 million attaching to the change of corporate tax rates in China, Malaysia, Singapore and the UK.
iv The 2007 comparatives for the tax charges for continuing operations shown above exclude discontinued banking operations, which were sold on 1 May 2007.
342 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Financial statements EEV 14 Earnings per share EPS 2008 m 2007 m Operating EPS from continuing operations: Operating profit before tax 2,961 2,530 Tax 765 692 Minority interests 5 17 Operating profit after tax and minority interests from continuing operations 2,191 1,821 Operating EPS from continuing operations pence 88.6p 74.5p Total EPS from continuing operations: Total loss profit before tax 2,106 3,670 Tax 771 927 Minority interests 3 21 Total loss profit after tax and minority interests from continuing operations 1,338 2,722 Total EPS from continuing operations pence 54.1 p 111.3p Average number of shares millions 2,472 2,445 The average number of shares reflects the average number in issue adjusted for shares held by employee trusts and consolidated unit trusts and OEICs which are treated as cancelled.
15 Shareholders funds segmental analysis 2008 m 2007 m Asian operations note i Long-term business: Net assets of operations EEV basis shareholders funds 5,264 3,726 note ii Acquired goodwill 111 111 note iii Asset management: Net assets of operations 167 111 note ii Acquired goodwill 61 61 5,603 4,009 US operations note iv Jackson net of surplus note borrowings of 154m 2007: 147m : Shareholders funds before capital charge 4,357 3,689 note v Capital charge 18 84 EEV basis shareholders funds 4,339 3,605 note iii Broker-dealer and asset management operations 114 81 4,453 3,686 UK operations notes i, vi Long-term business operations: note vii Smoothed shareholders funds 5,437 6,031 Actual shareholders funds less smoothed shareholders funds 518 466 EEV basis shareholders funds 4,919 6,497 note iii M&G: Net assets of operations 147 271 note ii Acquired goodwill 1,153 1,153 6,219 7,921 Other operations note iv Holding company net borrowings at market value 818 873 note iii Other net liabilities 501 143 1,319 1,016 Total 14,956 14,600 343 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 15 Shareholders funds segmental analysis continued Notes i A charge is deducted from the annual result and embedded value for the cost of capital supporting the Groups long-term business operations.
Where encumbered capital is held within a with-profits sub-fund, the value placed on surplus assets in the fund is already discounted to reflect its release over time and no further adjustment is necessary in respect of encumbered capital.
ii Under IFRS, goodwill is not amortised but is subject to impairment testing.
Goodwill attaching to venture fund investment subsidiaries of the PAC with-profits fund that are consolidated under IFRS is not included in the table above as the goodwill attaching to these companies is not relevant to the analysis of shareholders funds.
iii With the exception of the share of pension scheme deficit attributable to the PAC with-profits fund, which is included in Other operations net liabilities, and the borrowings as described in note iv, the amounts shown for the items in the table above that are referenced to this note have been determined on the statutory IFRS basis.
The overall pension scheme deficit, net of tax, attributable to shareholders relating to the Prudential Staff Pension and Scottish Amicable Pension Schemes is determined as shown below: 2008 2007 m m IFRS basis deficit relating to shareholder-backed operations 31 41 Additional EEV deficit relating to shareholders 10 per cent share of the IFRS basis deficit attributable to the PAC with-profits fund 6 9 EEV basis 37 50 iv Net core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations comprise: Mark to EEV basis Mark to EEV basis IFRS market value at market IFRS market value at market basis adjustment value basis adjustment value 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 m m m m m m Holding company cash and short-term investments 1,165 1,165 1,456 1,456 note Core structural borrowings central funds 2,785 802 1,983 2,367 38 2,329 Holding company net borrowings 1,620 802 818 911 38 873 Core structural borrowings Jackson 173 19 154 125 22 147 1,793 821 972 1,036 16 1,020 Including central finance subsidiaries.
Note EEV basis holding company borrowings comprising: 2008 2007 m m Perpetual subordinated capital securities Innovative Tier 1 513 679 Subordinated debt Lower Tier 2 737 817 Senior debt 733 833 1,983 2,329 In accordance with the EEV Principles, core borrowings are carried at market value.
v In determining the cost of capital for Jackson, it has been assumed that an amount at least equal to 235 per cent of the risk-based capital required by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners NAIC at the Company Action Level must be retained.
The related capital charge reflects the assumptions discussed in note 3b, together with the adjustments to required capital described in note 6iii.
vi The proportion of surplus allocated to shareholders from the UK with-profits business has been based on the present level of 10 per cent.
Future bonus rates have been set at levels which would fully utilise the assets of the with-profits fund over the lifetime of the business in force.
vii UK long-term business smoothed shareholders funds reflect an adjustment to the assets of the PAC with-profits fund, for the purposes of determining the unwind of discount included in operating profits, to remove the short-term volatility in market values of assets.
Shareholders funds in the balance sheet are determined on an unsmoothed basis.
344 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Financial statements EEV 16 Reconciliation of movement in shareholders funds 2008 m Long-term business operations Total UK long-term Asian US insurance business Other Group operations operations operations operations operations Total Operating profit from continuing operations based on longer-term investment returns Long-term business: 5 New business 741 293 273 1,307 1,307 6 Business in force 568 293 764 1,625 1,625 1,309 586 1,037 2,932 2,932 Asia development expenses 26 26 26 UK general insurance commission 44 44 M&G 286 286 Asian asset management operations 52 52 US broker-dealer and asset management 10 10 Curian 3 3 Other income and expenditure 302 302 8 Restructuring costs 14 14 18 32 Operating profit from continuing operations based on longer-term investment returns 1,283 586 1,023 2,892 69 2,961 9 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 1,063 1,344 2,407 4,814 313 5,127 10 Mark to market value movements on core borrowings 37 37 619 656 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on 11 defined benefit pension schemes 3 3 12 15 Effect of changes in economic assumptions and time 12 value of cost of options and guarantees 26 278 833 581 581 Profit loss from continuing operations before tax including actual investment returns 191 443 2,217 2,469 363 2,106 13 Tax charge credit attributable to shareholders profit loss : Tax on operating profit 329 205 269 803 38 765 Tax on short-term fluctuations in investment returns 167 492 683 1,342 69 1,411 Tax on shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 1 123 Tax on effect of changes in economic assumptions and time value of cost of options and guarantees 14 97 233 122 122 Total tax charge credit 175 190 647 662 109 771 Minority interests 2 1 1 4 3 Profit loss for the year 18 253 1,571 1,806 468 1,338 note i Exchange movements 1,170 1,264 2,434 424 2,010 Related tax 119 119 Intra group dividends including statutory transfer 36 169 296 501 501 External dividends 453 453 Reserve movements in respect of share-based payments 18 18 note ii Investment in operations 389 322 711 711 note iv Other transfers 3 40 33 4 4 Movement in own shares in respect of share-based payment plans 33 Movement on Prudential plc shares purchased by unit trusts consolidated under IFRS 25 25 New share capital subscribed 170 170 Mark to market value movements on Jackson assets backing surplus and required capital 148 148 148 Net increase decrease in shareholders equity 1,538 734 1,578 694 338 356 Shareholders equity at 1 January 2008 as previously published 3,726 3,605 6,497 13,828 951 14,779 effect of adoption of principles of IFRIC 14 for accounting for pension schemes 179 179 after adoption of IFRIC 14 3,726 3,605 6,497 13,828 772 14,600 note iii, 15 Shareholders equity at 31 December 2008 5,264 4,339 4,919 14,522 434 14,956 345 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 16 Reconciliation of movement in shareholders funds continued Notes i Profits are translated at average exchange rates, consistent with the method applied for statutory IFRS basis results.
The amounts recorded above for exchange rate movements reflect the difference between 2008 and 2007 exchange rates as applied to shareholders funds at 1 January 2008 and the difference between 31 December 2008 and average 2008 rates for profits.
ii Investment in operations reflects increases in share capital.
This includes certain non-cash items as detailed in note 17 b x. iii For the purposes of the table above, goodwill related to Asia long-term operations as shown in note 15 is included in Other operations.
iv Other transfers from to long-term business operations to other operations in 2008 represent: Total UK long-term Asian US insurance business operations operations operations operations m m m m Adjustment for net of tax asset management projected profits of covered business 15 3 17 35 Other adjustments 12 43 16 39 3 40 33 4 Long-term business operations Total UK long-term Asian US insurance business Other Group EEV basis shareholders equity operations operations operations operations operations total at 31 December 2008 m m m m m m Analysed as: Statutory IFRS basis shareholders equity 2,056 1,698 1,655 5,409 351 5,058 Additional retained profit on an EEV basis 3,208 2,641 3,264 9,113 785 9,898 EEV basis shareholders equity 5,264 4,339 4,919 14,522 434 14,956 Comprising: Free surplus 240 501 186 447 Required capital 1,789 1,400 928 4,117 Value of in-force business before deduction of cost of capital and of guarantees 4,590 2,838 4,263 11,691 Cost of capital 869 18 372 1,259 Cost of time value of guarantees 6 382 86 474 5,264 4,339 4,919 14,522 Long-term business operations Total UK long-term Asian US insurance business Other Group EEV basis shareholders equity operations operations operations operations operations total at 1 January 2008 m m m m m m Analysed as: Statutory IFRS basis shareholders equity 1,258 2,690 1,364 5,312 750 6,062 Additional retained profit on an EEV basis 2,468 915 5,133 8,516 22 8,538 EEV basis shareholders equity 3,726 3,605 6,497 13,828 772 14,600 Comprising: Free surplus 49 1,147 272 1,468 Required capital 907 1,072 891 2,870 Value of in-force business before deduction of cost of capital and of guarantees 3,245 1,612 5,641 10,498 Cost of capital 472 84 251 807 Cost of time value of guarantees 3 142 56 201 3,726 3,605 6,497 13,828 346 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Financial statements EEV 17 Reconciliation of net worth and value of in-force business a Summary by business unit 2008 m Value of Free in-force Total Reconciliation of net worth and value Surplus Required Total net business long-term note i of in-force business for 2008 note iv capital worth note v business note vi Shareholders equity at 1 January 2008 1,468 2,870 4,338 9,490 13,828 note ii, iii New business contribution 825 472 353 1,290 937 Existing business transfer to net worth 1,413 416 997 997 Expected return on existing business 53 130 183 718 901 Changes in operating assumptions and experience variances: Adjustments in respect of certain statutory reserves, note viii required capital and surplus note borrowings 187 137 324 284 40 Effect of establishment and increase in allowance for short-term credit risk under the statutory Pillar l reporting 770 41 729 705 24 Other 64 169 105 210 315 1,021 73 948 1,199 251 Changes in non-operating assumptions and experience variances and minority interests 915 165 750 3,145 3,895 Loss profit on ordinary activities after tax and minority interests from long-term business 1,295 424 871 935 1,806 Exchange movements 76 823 899 1,535 2,434 Intra-group dividends including statutory transfer and investment in operations 342 342 132 210 Mark to market value movements on Jackson assets backing surplus and required capital 148 148 148 note vii Other transfers to net worth 444 note vi Shareholders equity at 31 December 2008 447 4,117 4,564 9,958 14,522 Representing: Asian operations Shareholders equity at 1 January 2008 49 907 956 2,770 3,726 New business contribution 243 42 201 751 550 Existing business transfer to net worth 459 85 374 374 Expected return on existing business 8 61 53 283 336 Changes in operating assumptions and experience variances 181 178 3 71 68 Changes in non-operating assumptions and experience variances and minority interests 521 256 265 671 936 Loss profit on ordinary activities after tax and minority interests from long-term business 494 452 42 60 18 Exchange movements 145 430 285 885 1,170 Intra-group dividends including statutory transfer and investment in operations 353 353 353 Other transfers from net worth 3 3 3 Shareholders equity at 31 December 2008 240 1,789 1,549 3,715 5,264 347 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 17 Reconciliation of net worth and value of in-force business continued a Summary by business unit continued 2008 m Value of Free in-force Total Reconciliation of net worth and value surplus Required Total net business long-term note i of in-force business for 2008 note iv capital worth note v business US operations Shareholders equity at 1 January 2008 1,147 1,072 2,219 1,386 3,605 New business contribution 289 265 24 214 190 Existing business transfer to net worth 379 226 153 153 Expected return on existing business 37 40 77 75 152 Changes in operating assumptions and experience variances: Adjustments in respect of certain statutory reserves, note viii required capital and surplus note borrowings 110 137 247 207 40 Other 1 7 8 87 79 111 144 255 294 39 Changes in non-operating assumptions and experience variances and minority interests 606 606 28 634 Loss profit on ordinary activities after tax and minority interests from long-term business 590 65 655 402 253 Exchange movements 221 393 614 650 1,264 Intra-group dividends including statutory transfer and investment in operations 169 169 169 Mark to market value movements on Jackson assets backing surplus and required capital 148 148 148 Other transfers to net worth 40 40 40 Shareholders equity at 31 December 2008 501 1,400 1,901 2,438 4,339 UK insurance operations Shareholders equity at 1 January 2008 272 891 1,163 5,334 6,497 New business contribution 293 165 128 325 197 Existing business transfer to net worth 575 105 470 470 Expected return on existing business 24 29 53 360 413 Changes in operating assumptions and experience variances: note viii Adjustment in respect of certain statutory reserves 77 77 77 Effect of establishment and increase in allowance for short-term credit risk under statutory Pillar l reporting 770 41 729 705 24 Other 118 2 116 52 168 729 39 690 834 144 Changes in non-operating assumptions and experience variances and minority interests 212 91 121 2,446 2,325 Loss profit on ordinary activities after tax and minority interests from long-term business 211 37 174 1,397 1,571 Intra-group dividends including statutory transfer and investment in operations 158 158 132 26 Other transfers from net worth 33 33 33 Shareholders equity at 31 December 2008 186 928 1,114 3,805 4,919 This adjustment reflects the reserve for short-term credit risk that was established for Pillar l reporting subsequent to the EEV full year 2007 basis results announced in March 2008 and the movement in 2008.
Notes i All figures are shown net of tax.
2008 2007 ii The movements arising from new business contribution are as follows: m m Free surplus 825 544 Required capital 472 308 Total net worth 353 236 Value of in-force business 1,290 1,094 5 Total long-term business 937 858 348 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Financial statements EEV iii New business capital usage Annual New business premium capital usage Free equivalent per 100m surplus APE APE note 5a m m m Asian operations 243 1,362 18 US operations 289 716 40 UK insurance operations 293 947 31 825 3,025 27 iv Free surplus is the market value of the net worth in excess of the capital required to support the covered business.
Where appropriate, adjustments are made to the regulatory basis net worth from the local regulatory basis so as to include backing assets movements at fair value rather than cost so as to comply with the EEV principles.
v Value of in-force business includes the value of future margins from current in-force business less the cost of holding encumbered capital.
vi Included in the EEV basis shareholders funds of long-term business operations of 14,522 million 2007: 13,828 million is 409 million 2007: 349 million in respect of asset management business falling within the scope of covered business as follows: 2008 2007 m m Asian operations 273 204 US operations 19 12 UK insurance operations 117 133 409 349 vii Other transfers from net worth 2008 Note 16iv m Adjustment for net of tax asset management projected profits of covered business 35 Other adjustments 39 4 viii The charge of 40 million to total EEV represents the cost of capital relating to the reallocation of certain items from net worth to the value of in-force business for US and UK operations.
These adjustments related to the following items: 2008 m Value of Total Free Required Net in-force long-term surplus capital worth business business US operations: Interest Maintenance Reserve IMR and certain statutory reserves note 1 relating to variable annuity business 404 404 353 51 note 2 Required capital 137 137 0 11 11 note 3 Surplus note borrowings 157 157 157 110 137 247 207 40 note 4 UK insurance operations 77 77 77 Total 187 137 324 284 40 1 These reserves represent additional prudent reserves recognised for local regulatory purposes and comprise reductions in free surplus of 45 million in respect of the Interest Maintenance Reserve IMR and 359 million relating to certain statutory reserves for variable annuity business.
The value of in-force business reflects an increase of 38 million in respect of the IMR and 315 million in respect of the reallocation of other statutory reserves.
The IMR is a statutory liability in respect of realised gains on the sale of bonds which, on a regulatory basis, are amortised to income over time, in line with the duration of the bonds sold.
The statutory reserves are in respect of guarantees on variable annuity products in excess of the surrender value.
Previously for EEV basis reporting, the IMR and these certain statutory variable annuity reserves were immediately released from the value of in-force business and treated as elements of free surplus.
Their reallocation to the value of in-force business reflects the reinstatement of these amounts as explicit liabilities, consistent with the regulatory basis.
2 The adjustment to reduce required capital for US operations represents a current year refinement to align the amount with the required level which has been set as an amount at least equal to 235 per cent of the risk-based capital required by National Association of Insurance Commissioners at the Company Action Level, which is sufficient to meet the economic capital requirement.
3 The surplus note borrowings have been reflected as contributing to the capital in the net worth but with the obligation deducted from the value of in-force business.
4 These reserves represent additional prudent reserves recognised for local regulatory purposes.
349 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 17 Reconciliation of net worth and value of in-force business continued b Group analysis of underlying business activity The following analysis shows the movement in embedded value arising from the Groups underlying business activity and the effects of the current extraordinary market conditions.
Free Required Value Total surplus capital Net of in-force long-term note ii note iii worth business business note i Group m m m m m Underlying movement New business 825 472 353 1,290 937 Business in force expected transfer 1,413 416 997 997 unwind of discount, effects of changes in operating assumptions, operating experience variances and note vii other operating items 11 299 288 928 1,216 577 355 932 1,221 2,153 Investment movements and economic effects: note iv UKIO additional allowance for short-term credit risk 770 41 729 705 24 Jackson impairment losses in excess of longer term expected returns net of defaults 268 0 268 0 268 Other investment movements and effect of changes in note v economic assumptions 647 165 482 3,145 3,627 1,685 206 1,479 2,440 3,919 note viii Net cash flows to parent company 166 0 166 132 298 note ix Other items 253 686 939 1,819 2,758 Net movement 1,021 1,247 226 468 694 Balance at 1 January 2008 1,468 2,870 4,338 9,490 13,828 Balance at 31 December 2008 447 4,117 4,564 9,958 14,522 Notes i All figures are shown net of tax.
ii Free surplus is the market value of the net worth in excess of the capital required to support the covered business.
Where appropriate adjustments are made to the regulatory basis net worth from the local regulatory basis so as to include backing assets movements at fair value rather than cost so as to comply with the EEV principles.
iii Prudential has based required capital on its internal targets for economic capital subject to it being at least the local statutory minimum requirements, as described in note 2b.
iv The increase in UKIO credit provisions reflects the allowances explained in note 3. v Other investment movements and effect of changes in economic assumptions represent: Free Required Value Total surplus capital Net of in-force long-term note ii note iii worth business business m m m m m note vi Other investment movements 681 27 708 2,496 3,204 note vii Effect of changes in economic assumptions 34 192 226 649 423 647 165 482 3,145 3,627 vi Investment movements primarily reflect temporary market movements on the portfolio of investments held by the Groups shareholder-backed operations together with the shareholders 10 per cent interest in the value movements on the assets in the with-profits funds.
vii The underlying movement in free surplus includes 85 million for the effect of rebalancing the asset portfolio for UK annuity business, as described in note 6iv c. The effect of changes in economic assumptions on free surplus includes a credit of 166 million in respect of rebalancing as described in note 12. viii Net cash flows to or from parent company reflect the flows for long-term business operations as included in the holding company cash flow at transaction rate.
350 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Financial statements EEV Notes continued ix Other items represent: Free Required Value Total surplus capital Net of in-force long-term note ii note iii worth business business m m m m m 17a Exchange movements 76 823 899 1,535 2,434 Mark to market value movements on Jackson assets backing surplus and required capital 148 148 148 note x Other 325 137 188 284 472 253 686 939 1,819 2,758 x The effect of other items on total embedded value of 472 million primarily relate to the impact on free surplus of an intra-group capital adjustment in respect of UK insurance operations of 320 million, an adjustment for funds loaned to the parent company of 133 million from Singapore and an adjustment of 50 million to reflect the cash flows to parent company at year end rates of exchange, consistent with the closing embedded value.
Also included is a net overall charge of 40 million for the reallocation of certain statutory reserves for UK insurance and US operations, an adjustment to required capital and the reallocation of surplus note borrowings for US operations.
The effect of these adjustments is a decrease in free surplus of 187 million, a reduction in required capital of 137 million and an increase in the value of in-force business of 284 million.
18 Expected transfer of value of in-force business to free surplus The discounted value of in-force business and required capital at 31 December 2008 can be reconciled to the analysis of free surplus crystallisation as follows: 2008 m 17 Required capital 4,117 17 Value of in-force VIF 9,958 16 Add: cost of time value of guarantees 474 Other items 181 14,368 Other items includes the deduction of the value of the shareholders interest in the Estate, the value of which is derived by increasing final bonus rates so as to exhaust the estate over the lifetime of the in-force with-profits business.
This is an assumption to give an appropriate valuation.
To be conservative this item is excluded from the value of the Estate from the expected free surplus generation profile below.
Offset against this value are amounts treated as capital for regulatory purposes and hence treated as capital for net worth purposes but which are deducted in full against the VIF i. e. the full undiscounted value.
Cash flows are projected on a certainty equivalent basis and are discounted at the appropriate risk discount rate.
The modelled cash flows use the same methodology underpinning the Groups embedded value methodology reporting and so is subject to the same assumptions and sensitivities.
The table below shows how the VIF generated by the in-force business at 31 December 2008 and the associated required capital is modelled as emerging into free surplus over future years.
Expected period of conversion of future post tax distributable earnings and required capital flows to free surplus 2008 Total as shown above 1-5 years 6-10 years 11-15 years 16-20 years 20 years m m m m m m Asian operations 5,373 1,746 1,150 859 564 1,054 US operations 4,374 2,415 1,167 460 180 152 UK insurance operations 4,621 2,297 975 600 389 360 Total 14,368 6,458 3,292 1,919 1,133 1,566 100% 45% 23% 13% 8% 11% 351 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 19 Sensitivity of results to alternative assumptions a Sensitivity analysis economic assumptions The tables below show the sensitivity of the embedded value as at 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 and the new business contribution after the effect of encumbered capital for 2008 and 2007 to: One per cent increase in the discount rates: one per cent increase and decrease in interest rates, including all consequential changes assumed investment returns for all asset classes, market values of fixed interest assets, risk discount rates : one per cent rise in equity and property yields: 10 per cent fall in market value of equity and property assets not applicable for new business contribution : and holding company statutory minimum capital by contrast to economic capital.
In each sensitivity calculation, all other assumptions remain unchanged except where they are directly affected by the revised economic conditions.
2008 m Total UK long-term Asian US insurance business operations operations operations operations New business profit for 2008 5 As reported 741 293 273 1,307 Discount rates 1% increase 88 25 52 165 Interest rates 1% increase 20 21 5 4 Interest rates 1% decrease 23 47 6 18 Equity property yields 1% rise 30 28 15 73 Embedded value of long-term operations at 31 December 2008 16 As reported 5,264 4,339 4,919 14,522 Discount rates 1% increase 564 170 361 1,095 note i Interest rates 1% increase 0 123 98 221 note i Interest rates 1% decrease 36 19 121 104 Equity property yields 1% rise 294 114 276 684 Equity property market values 10% fall 129 117 381 627 Statutory minimum capital 513 11 5 529 2007 m Total UK long-term Asian US insurance business operations operations operations operations New business profit for 2007 5 As reported 643 285 277 1,205 Discount rates 1% increase 77 29 36 142 Interest rates 1% increase 16 5 5 16 Interest rates 1% decrease 13 18 5 0 Equity property yields 1% rise 33 30 15 78 Embedded value of long-term operations at 31 December 2007 16 As reported 3,726 3,605 6,497 13,828 Discount rates 1% increase 386 129 534 1,049 note i Interest rates 1% increase 29 120 95 244 note i Interest rates 1% decrease 2 17 113 132 Equity property yields 1% rise 234 58 405 697 Equity property market values 10% fall 136 63 519 718 Statutory minimum capital 315 59 8 382 352 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Financial statements EEV Notes i Asian operations Embedded Interest rates value of long-term 1% 1% operations increase decrease 2008 m m m Asian operations Established markets 3,981 115 151 Taiwan 205 126 194 Korea 338 7 6 Indonesia 314 8 10 Other 836 4 9 5,264 36 Taiwan sensitivity to starting bond rate i. e. the starting bond rate for the progression to the assumed long-term rate : 1% 1% increase decrease Embedded in the in the value at starting starting 31 Dec 2008 bond rate bond rate m m m Taiwan 205 154 165 If it had been assumed in preparing the 2008 results for Taiwan that interest rates remained at the current level of around 1.4 per cent until 31 December 2009 and the progression period in bond yields was delayed by a year so as to end on 31 December 2019, there would have been a reduction in the Taiwan embedded value of 74 million.
Embedded Interest rates value of long-term 1% 1% operations increase decrease 2007 m m m Asian operations Established markets 2,704 77 83 Taiwan 12 67 91 Korea 304 7 7 Indonesia 180 3 2 Other 550 9 1 3,726 29 2 Taiwan sensitivity to starting bond rate i. e. the starting bond rate for the progression to the assumed long-term rate : 1% 1% increase decrease Embedded in the in the value at starting starting 31 Dec 2007 bond rate bond rate m m m Taiwan 12 73 57 353 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 19 Sensitivity of results to alternative assumptions continued b Sensitivity analysis non-economic assumptions The tables below show the sensitivity of the embedded value as at 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 and the new business contribution after the effect of encumbered capital for 2008 and 2007 to: 10 per cent proportionate decrease in maintenance expenses a 10 per cent sensitivity on a base assumption of 10 per annum would represent an expense assumption of 9 per annum : 10 per cent proportionate decrease in lapse rates a 10 per cent sensitivity on a base assumption of five per cent would represent a lapse rate of 4.5 per cent per annum : and five per cent proportionate decrease in base mortality and morbidity rates i. e. increased longevity.
2008 m Total UK long-term Asian US insurance business operations operations operations operations New business profit for 2008 5 As reported 741 293 273 1,307 Maintenance expenses 10% decrease 22 6 7 35 Lapse rates 10% decrease 62 23 11 96 Mortality and morbidity 5% decrease 27 6 20 13 Change representing effect on: Life business 27 6 33 Annuity business 20 20 Embedded value of long-term operations at 31 December 2008 16 As reported 5,264 4,339 4,919 14,522 Maintenance expenses 10% decrease 92 45 36 173 Lapse rates 10% decrease 194 177 80 451 Mortality and morbidity 5% decrease 172 121 71 222 Change representing effect on: Life business 172 121 5 298 Annuity business 76 76 2007 m Total UK long-term Asian US insurance business operations operations operations operations New business profit for 2007 5 As reported 643 285 277 1,205 Maintenance expenses 10% decrease 20 6 8 34 Lapse rates 10% decrease 62 19 8 89 Mortality and morbidity 5% decrease 21 4 14 11 Change representing effect on: Life business 21 4 25 Annuity business 14 14 Embedded value of long-term operations at 31 December 2007 16 As reported 3,726 3,605 6,497 13,828 Maintenance expenses 10% decrease 54 30 36 120 Lapse rates 10% decrease 142 123 87 352 Mortality and morbidity 5% decrease 98 74 103 69 Change representing effect on: Life business 98 74 9 181 Annuity business 112 112 354 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Financial statements EEV 20 Adoption of the principles of IFRIC 14 for accounting for pension schemes To provide consistency with the basis applied for IFRS reporting, the EEV basis results reflect adoption of the principles of IFRIC 14 for accounting for pension schemes.
The impact of the adoption is as follows: 2008 m 2007 m Previous Effect of Revised As Effect of After basis adoption basis published adoption change Operating profit from continuing operations based on longer-term investment returns 2,992 31 2,961 2,542 12 2,530 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 5,127 5,127 174 174 Mark to market value movements on core borrowings 656 656 223 223 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 17 32 15 116 121 5 Effect of changes in economic assumptions and time value of cost of options and guarantees 581 581 748 748 Loss profit before tax 2,043 63 2,106 3,803 133 3,670 Tax credit charge 754 17 771 961 34 927 Loss profit after tax 1,289 46 1,335 2,842 99 2,743 Discontinued operations 241 241 Less: minority interests 3 3 21 21 Loss profit for the year 1,292 46 1,338 3,062 99 2,963 Other movements in reserves 1,694 1,694 166 166 Shareholders equity at beginning of year 14,779 179 14,600 11,883 80 11,803 Shareholders equity at end of year 15,181 225 14,956 14,779 179 14,600 The changes reflect the aggregate of those under IFRS, as shown in note I1 to the IFRS Financial Statements, and the shareholders 10 per cent interest in the PAC with-profits element of the effect of the adoption of IFRIC 14 for accounting for pension schemes reflected under EEV reporting.
21 Intended sale of legacy agency book and agency force in Taiwan to China Life Insurance of Taiwan On 20 February 2009, the Company announced that it had entered into an agreement to sell the assets and liabilities of its agency distribution business and its agency force in Taiwan to China Life Insurance Company Ltd of Taiwan for the nominal sum of NT$1.
In addition, Prudential will invest 45 million to purchase a 9.95 per cent stake in China Life through a share placement.
The business being transferred represents 94 per cent of Prudentials in-force liabilities in Taiwan and includes Prudentials legacy interest rate guaranteed products.
The transfer is subject to regulatory approval.
After taking account of EEV shareholders funds at 31 December 2008 of the business and restructuring and other costs the Groups EEV shareholders equity is expected to increase by approximately 90 million.
355 Notes on the EEV basis supplementary information continued 21 Intended sale of legacy agency book and agency force in Taiwan to China Life Insurance of Taiwan continued The movement in shareholders EEV equity of the total Taiwan life business for 2008 comprised: m Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns from: New business 120 Business in force 16 Total 104 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 163 Effect of changes in economic assumptions and time value of cost of options and guarantees 185 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 3 Loss before tax 247 Total tax 12 Minority interests 2 Loss for the financial year 233 note i Investment by parent company 93 Exchange and other reserve movements 53 Net movement 193 Shareholders equity at 1 January 2008 12 Shareholders equity at 31 December 2008 205 Note i Comprising 66 million for solvency capital and 27 million for business development.
