Notes to the consolidated accounts 1 Principal accounting policies Rathbone Brothers Plc the Company is a public company incorporated in Great Britain.
The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its individual accounts in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the UK UK GAAP : these are presented on pages 116 to 123.
Changes in accounting policies and disclosure The comparative balances have been restated in the Income statement, Cash ow statement and the related notes where applicable to reect the presentation of certain subsidiary entities as disposal groups in accordance with IFRS 5, Non-current assets held-for-sale and discontinued operations.
Further details, including the impact on the financial statements, are given in note 12.
Developments in reporting standards and interpretations The following interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC are effective for the first time in the current financial year and have been adopted by the Group, although there was no impact on the consolidated results or financial position: IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions.
IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a dened benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction.
The following standards and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB or the IFRIC that are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 or later periods but which the Group has not early adopted and which may, in the opinion of the directors, materially impact the financial statements in the period of initial application: IFRS 8, Operating segments effective from 1 January 2009.
The new standard requires segment information to be presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
Some amendments to the disclosures made for segmental performance are likely although it is not expected that the number of reportable segments will change.
IAS 1 revised, Presentation of financial statements effective from 1 January 2009 subject to endorsement by the EU.
This requires changes to the presentation of financial statements and adopts revised titles for the primary statements, although companies may continue to use the existing titles.
IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations effective from 1 January 2009 subject to endorsement by the EU.
The changes impact on the initial and subsequent valuation of purchase consideration, the calculation of goodwill and the treatment of transaction costs.
The impact of the standard on future acquisitions is not readily determinable.
IAS 36 amendment, Impairment of assets effective from 1 January 2009 subject to endorsement by the EU.
This amendment requires additional disclosures to be provided where fair value less costs to sell is calculated on the basis of discounted cash ows.
IAS 19 amendment, Employee benets effective from 1 January 2009 subject to endorsement by the EU.
This claries and amends certain aspects of accounting for dened benefit schemes.
The impact of this amendment on the consolidated results or financial position has not yet been determined.
The following standards and interpretations issued by the IASB or the IFRIC that are also mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 or later periods but which the Group has not early adopted but which are not likely, in the opinion of the directors, to impact materially the financial statements in the period of initial application: IAS 23 amendments, Borrowing costs effective from 1 January 2009.
IFRS 2 amendment, Share-based payment effective from 1 January 2009.
IAS 32 amendment, Financial Instruments: Presentation IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial statements Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation effective from 1 January 2009.
IAS 27 revised, Consolidated and separate financial statements effective from 1 July 2009.
IFRS 5 amendment, Non-current assets held-for-sale and discontinued operations effective from 1 July 2009.
IAS 28 amendment, Investments in associates effective from 1 January 2009.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 66 Notes to the consolidated accounts
