37 significant accounting policies continued Share based payments The Companys equity settled share option programme allows employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of options and share awards in relation to the Companys Share Incentive Plan and Long Term Incentive Plan granted to employees after 7 November 2002 and not vested as at 1 January 2005 is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using an option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Share based payment costs in relation to subsidiaries' directors and staff are recharged to those subsidiaries.
Post-retirement benefits The Company operates pension schemes providing benefits based on final pensionable pay.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Company.
Pension scheme assets are measured using market values.
Pension scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit method and discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
The pension scheme surplus to the extent that it is recoverable or deficit is recognised in full, net of any related deferred tax asset or liability.
The movement in the scheme surplus deficit is split between operating charges, finance items and actuarial gains and losses.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Deferred taxation Full provision, without discounting, is made for deferred taxation arising from timing differences which have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date, except where otherwise required by accounting standards.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is more certain than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Guarantees Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of subsidiaries, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
38 profit for the year As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the year.
Rathbone Brothers Plc reported a profit after tax for the financial year ended 31 December 2008 of 24,968,000 2007: 7,288,000.
Auditors remuneration for audit and other services to the Company is set out in note 9.
The average number of employees during the year was as follows: 2008 2007 Investment Management 430 398 Unit Trusts 31 31 Trust and Tax 43 47 Central Shared Services 172 157 676 633 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 119 Notes to the individual accounts
