1 Principal accounting policies continued IAS 39 amendment, Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement effective from 1 January 2009.
IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial instruments effective from 1 January 2009.
The following standards and interpretations issued by the IASB or the IFRIC that are also mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 or later periods but which, in the opinion of the directors, are not relevant to the operations of the Group: IFRS 1 and IAS 27 amendment, First-time Adoption and Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
This amendment is relevant to the Company.
IAS 16 amendment, Property, plant and equipment.
IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
IAS 27 amendment, Consolidated and separate financial statements.
IAS 29 amendment, Financial Reporting in hyperinationary economies.
IAS 31 amendment, Investment in joint ventures.
IAS 20 amendments, Accounting for government grants.
IAS 39 amendment, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement effective 1 July 2008.
IFRS 7 amendment, Financial instruments: Disclosures, on the Reclassication of financial assets effective 1 July 2008.
IFRIC 15, Agreements for construction of real estates.
IFRIC 17, Distributions of non cash assets to owners effective 1 July 2009.
IFRIC 18, Transfer of assets from customers effective 1 July 2009.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries, together the Group, made up to 31 December each year.
Subsidiaries are all entities in which the Company has a controlling interest, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether an entity is a subsidiary of the Company.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 67 Notes to the consolidated accounts
