Authority to purchase ordinary shares continued c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is the higher of i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased and ii the amount stipulated by Article 5 i of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 in each case, exclusive of expenses : and d the authority hereby conferred shall unless previously renewed expire 15 months after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or adjournment thereof after the passing of this resolution except that the Company may at any time prior to the expiry of such authority enter into a contract for the purchase of ordinary shares which would or might be completed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may complete a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract.
This second special resolution is to renew the authority granted to the directors at the Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2008 to purchase the Companys own ordinary shares under certain stringent conditions.
The authority will be used only when the directors consider that it would be advantageous to the Company and the effect would be to enhance earnings per share.
Shares purchased will be held as treasury shares as dened in section 162A of the Companies Act 1985.
At 3 March 2009 there were options outstanding to subscribe for 906,963 new ordinary shares in the Company.
This represents approximately 2.1% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at that date and would represent approximately 2.2% if the authority to buy back shares under this resolution were used in full.
Authority for the convening of general meetings of the Company on 14 clear days' notice 13 That any general meeting of the Company, other than an Annual General Meeting, may be convened by the giving of not less than 14 clear days' notice.
This third special resolution is required to reect the proposed implementation in August 2009 of the Shareholder Rights Directive.
The regulation implementing this Directive will increase the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days.
The Company is currently able to call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days notice and would like to preserve this ability.
In order to be able to do so after the implementation of the Directive, shareholders must have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Directive before it can call a general meeting on 14 days' notice.
Amendment to the Articles of Association 14 That with effect from 00.01 a. m. on 1 October 2009: a the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by deleting all the provisions of the Companys Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of section 28 of the Companies Act 2006, are to be treated as provisions of the Companys Articles of Association: and b the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identication be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
It is proposed in special resolution 14 to adopt new Articles of Association the New Articles in order to update the Companys current Articles of Association to take account of changes in applicable company law brought about by the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act.
The 2006 Act is being implemented in phases with additional provisions being brought into force on 1 October 2009.
Accordingly, the resolution adopting the New Articles will only become effective on 1 October 2009.
The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are summarised below: i The Company's objects The provisions regulating the operations of the Company are currently set out in the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association.
The Companys Memorandum contains, among other things, the objects clause which sets out the scope of the activities which the Company is authorised to undertake.
This is drafted to give a wide scope.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 127 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Amendment to the Articles of Association continued The 2006 Act signicantly reduces the constitutional signicance of a companys memorandum.
The 2006 Act provides that a memorandum will record only the names of subscribers and the number of shares each subscriber has agreed to take in the company.
The objects clause and all other provisions which are currently contained in a companys memorandum will be deemed to be contained in a companys articles of association with effect from 1 October 2009.
The Company can remove these provisions by special resolution.
Further, the 2006 Act abolishes the need for companies to have objects clauses.
For this reason the Company is proposing to remove its objects clause together with the other provisions of its Memorandum which will be deemed to be contained in its Articles of Association with effect from 1 October 2009.
Resolution 14 a confirms the removal of these provisions for the Company.
As the effect of this resolution will be to remove the statement currently in the Companys Memorandum of Association regarding limited liability, the New Articles also contain an express statement regarding the limited liability of the shareholders.
ii Authorised share capital and unissued shares The 2006 Act abolishes the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital and the New Articles reect this.
Directors will still be limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot because allotment authority continues to be required under the 2006 Act, save in respect of employee share schemes.
The New Articles showing all the changes to the existing Memorandum and Articles of Association are available for inspection, as noted on page129 of this document.
By Order of the Board Richard Loader Company secretary 31 March 2009 Registered Ofce: 159 New Bond Street London W1S 2UD Notes 1 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001 and subject to the provisions for proxies, the Company species that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6.00pm on 5 May 2009 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 6.00pm on the day two days prior to the day xed for the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Subsequent changes to the entries on the register will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or to vote at the meeting.
2 Members entitled to attend, speak and vote are entitled, if they so wish, to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote in their stead provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need not be a member.
Proxy forms should be completed and returned to the Companys Registrars, Equiniti, at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZL by no later than 12.00 noon on 5 May 2009.
The completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent you from attending and voting at the Annual General Meeting if you so wish.
The vote withheld option is provided on the proxy card to enable you to abstain on any particular resolution.
However, it should be noted that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for and against a resolution.
3 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on Thursday 7 May 2009 and any adjournment thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 128 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notes continued In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with the specifications of CRESTs operator, Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited Euroclear and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by Equiniti ID RA19 by no later than 12.00 noon on 5 May 2009.
No message received through the CREST network after this time will be accepted.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which our registrars are able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider take such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
4 Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
5 The statement of rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 2 and 3 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
6 As at 4 March 2009 being the last practicable date prior to the printing of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 42,858,196 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 4 March 2009 are 42,858,196.
7 A memorandum of the terms of all contracts of service between Directors and the Company or any of its subsidiaries is available for inspection at the Registered Ofce during business hours on any weekday public holidays excluded.
The memorandum will also be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
In addition, a copy of the proposed new Articles of Association of the Company and a copy of the existing Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company marked to show the changes being proposed by resolution 14 will be available for inspection at the Registered Ofce during business hours on any weekday public holidays excluded from 31 March 2009 to the date of the meeting, and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting, and during the meeting.
8 In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 130 Five year record Corporate information Company secretary and registered office R E Loader FCA Rathbone Brothers Plc 159 New Bond Street London W1S 2UD Company No.
com Registrars and transfer office Equiniti Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA www.
com Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 131 Corporate Information Our offices Head office Port of Liverpool Building Pier Head 159 New Bond Street Liverpool L3 1NW London W1S 2UD Tel 44 0 151 236 6666 Tel 44 0 20 7399 0000 Fax 44 0 151 243 7001 Fax 44 0 20 7399 0011 Fiennes House 32 Southgate Street Investment management offices Winchester Hampshire SO23 9EH Rathbone Investment Management Limited Tel 44 0 1962 857 000 Fax 44 0 1962 857 001 159 New Bond Street London W1S 2UD Rathbone Investment Management C. I.
