Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of Rathbone International Finance B. V. which is effectively controlled by the Company, although the Company does not own any of the entitys share capital.
Basis of presentation The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted, which are set out below, have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in the consolidated accounts.
Impairment Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment both when there is an indication of impairment and annually.
Other financial assets are assessed at the reporting date or if there is objective evidence of impairment during the accounting period.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Held to maturity investment securities and loans and receivables are considered individually for impairment.
Where an asset does not generate cash ows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount of non-financial assets is the higher of fair value less any cost to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present values using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the asset for which the estimates of future cash ows have not been adjusted.
The recoverable amount of held to maturity investment securities and loans and receivables is calculated as the present value of estimated future cash ows, discounted at the effective interest rate of the asset on recognition.
Impairment of available for sale securities is calculated as the cumulative loss that has been previously recognised directly in equity at the time that objective evidence of impairment is identied.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset, except for equity instruments, or cash generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss excluding goodwill subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
An impairment loss in respect of a held to maturity security or loans and receivables is reversed if the subsequent increase can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
An impairment loss in respect of an investment in equity instruments classied as available for sale is not reversed through profit or loss.
If the fair value of a debt instrument classied as available for sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss, the impairment is reversed through profit or loss.
Interest income and expense Interest income and expense are recognised as earned in the income statement for all instruments measured at amortised cost and for available for sale debt instruments using the effective interest method.
Interest payable and receivable on derivative financial instruments and dividends receivable from money market funds are included within net interest income.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or a financial liability and of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability.
When calculating the effective interest rate, the Group estimates cash ows considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument but does not consider future credit losses.
The calculation includes all fees and interest paid or received between parties to the contract that are an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 68 Notes to the consolidated accounts
