Generating profitable growth A clear business strategy 2.
Maintaining performance across our divisions 1.
Generating profitable growth We use 2 methods to generate profitable growth: 1.1 Organic growth: We win business from new and existing customers in the UK and Ireland that provides long term recurring revenues.
1.2 Acquisitions: We acquire small to medium businesses that broaden our skill base and extend our market reach.
As a result, we have grown consistently since we started initially delivering support services to government, and now operating across both the public and private sectors.
Business review The Capita Group Plc 17 Behind our bid pipeline is an active prospect list of 1.1 Creating profitable opportunities where the bidding process is underway organic growth but we have yet to reach a shortlist or final bidding stage.
This prospect list is in turn supported by a list of Our organic growth is created in 2 ways: suspects relationships which we are nurturing to The majority of our organic growth comes through generate future bid opportunities.
securing high quality, recurring revenues from long To ensure that our bid pipeline is regularly replenished term contracts delivering multiple, integrated with new opportunities across all our markets, it is administration and customer services.
These contracts essential that we support our experienced sales teams have been consistently increasing in length as clients with a proactive strategy for prospect identification and seek longer lasting partnerships to deliver more development.
We recently expanded our intelligence complex service transformation: they currently and initial business development resources to increase average 9 years.
theflow of potential new business.
We have also enlarged We also seek single service business that rolls over our Major SalesTeam to ensure we are well placed to annually, has a high repeat rate or is secured under convert the attractive opportunities we identify.
medium to long term contracts of 2 to 7 years.
The combination of long term contracts and recurrent Maintaining selectivity business secures highly visible future revenues.
Procurement processes on major bids, particularly in the public sector, may take up to 2 years to complete.
Fuelling a strong pipeline of new They can be costly in both time and resources.
So we business opportunities are highly selective and disciplined throughout the bid process, only bidding where we see realistic opportunity We constantly identify areas of opportunity and for a sensible working relationship that benefits both the potential clients across the public and private sectors.
We look for: We actively engage with potential clients to clients with whom we can build a strong relationship demonstrate the benefits and added value that and deliver real benefits outsourcing offers to their organisations and customers.
a defined bid process with clear decision criteria In the private sector we actively seek out opportunities through business intelligence and existing relationships: fit with our core competencies in service increasingly, we are also approached directly by transformation organisations.
The procurement process is determined a fair risk reward balance by each individual customer, often working with advisers.
limited requirement for capital investment, unless there is a real value proposition for the Group UK public sector contracts are subject to defined procurement processes.
EU policy requires fair and acceptable contractual obligations.
open competition, and opportunities are formally If at any stage we feel that conditions have shifted advertised and notified.
In addition, under EU significantly or that any of these criteria are no longer competition law, public sector outsourcing contracts met, we will, after detailed consultation, withdraw from that are already in place must be offered for tender the process.
It is essential for us to pursue only those when the initial contract term is complete.
contracts that can both meet the clients expectations A valuable measure of our success is our bid pipeline and generate reasonable returns for Capita.
of major contract opportunities, which we report twice a year in our half year and full year results.
It contains contracts of 10m or above, where we have been shortlisted to the last 4 or fewer: all bids are capped at 500m to prevent very large individual contracts distorting the total.
Maintaining performance across our divisions Our sales performance in 2008 was excellent.
Converting a strong pipeline of We secured and extended 17 major contracts with a new business opportunities total value of 1.24bn 2007: 8 contracts totalling 1.89bn.
These included 2 contracts NHS Choices We manage procurements either centrally or at TM and the Gas Safe Register scheme that give us a business level, depending on the size and complexity strong footprint in markets we are looking to develop.
Our Major SalesTeam pursues See table below for details.
It can draw on the resources of the whole Group to tailor solutions to Alongside these contract wins our pipeline is constantly each clients requirements.
replenished reflecting the quality of business opportunities across our markets.
In February 2009, Sales teams in each business unit of each division our bid pipeline was 3.1bn February 2008: 2.5bn.
pursue smaller or less complex contracts, usually focused on a single service.
Where these are worth over 10m, the Major SalesTeam may provide extra support.
Setting our bid success rate against our bid pipeline provides a useful indicator of likely future sales growth.
In 2008, we continued our success rate of 1 in 2.
This compares with an industry average of 1 in 5.
Once a bidding process is completed, the contract moves out of the pipeline which is replenished as other bids reach the shortlist stage.
Major new contracts and extensions secured in 2008 NEW NEW NEW NEW ADDITIONAL NEW Marsh UK Principle Insurance Sefton Metropolitan Capita Glamorgan Service Health and Safety Holdings Borough Council Consultancy Birmingham Executive value: value: value: value: value: value: 187m Over 80m 70m 75m 110m 140m duration: duration: duration: duration: duration: duration: 10 years 8 years 10 years 15 years 8 years 10 years To deliver back office To provide outsourced To deliver a wide range Joint venture to deliver Builds on current To operate a new gas adminstration functions in services for Principles of property and highway wide range of property partnership.
Contract to installer registration Norwich and Pune, India, motor and home insurance services.
services and infrastructure manage and transform scheme, Gas Safe TM and processing services to and an IT platform to consultancy in Wales.
Birmingham City Councils Register, in Great Britain enhance Marshs broking launch and sell Sharia Will deliver cost savings contact centre to ensure and to renew focus on activities to clients across compliant insurance and create 100 new jobs easier access to council gas safety.
services for citizens of Birmingham.
Total value: 1.24bn, 17 contracts 2007 total: 1.89bn, 8 contracts Contracts listed above 8 further deals valued at 10m to 50m worth an aggregate of 154m.
Business review The Capita Group Plc 19 We successfully renew the majority of our contracts Retaining and expanding contracts when they come up for renewal.
In our 25-year history Alongside securing new business from new clients, we we have only failed to renew 3 of our material contracts work to renew or expand existing client relationships.
defined as generating more than 1% of the previous years revenue.
These were contracts to deliver the We concentrate on generating client satisfaction by DrivingTheoryTest ended 31 December 1999, office meeting expectations and delivering value.
We share services for the Department of Work and Pensions management, ideas and expertise across our operations ended 2007 and the London Congestion Charging to add value for the benefit of our clients.
Scheme, which runs until the end of November 2009.
The higher the standards of service we provide, the We have only 1 material contract due for renewal more likely clients are to extend and expand their before end 2011. relationships with us.
It is therefore important to measure the improvement in service that we deliver Impending rebids of existing material contracts to clients and their customers.
To do this, we agree Year Contract Value per annum m detailed service standards and key performance 2009 None indicators.
On our largest contracts, strategic partnership boards help both parties understand 2010 DCSF: National Strategies 35 each others needs better.
As a result, clients find 2011 None that outsourcing gives them more control over 2012 TV Licensing 50 support operations, not less.
2012 Criminal Records Bureau 40 By delivering operational excellence and adding 2013 None value for our clients and their customers, we achieve Defined as generating more than 1% of previous years revenue.
Revenues p. a. as per high client retention rates.
We also create a pool of original contract values.
positive referees who provide powerful support in securing new sales opportunities.
We aim not just to keep our relationships, but to grow them.
Once clients have experienced the quality service and added value we deliver, many of them want us to support further areas of their operations.
Formerly British Islamic Insurance Holdings NEW NEW NEW Comprises Bridgend County BC, Merthyr County Department Abbey Life Sheffield BC and Rhondda CynonTaf County BC.
of Health City Council value: value: value: 60m 137m Over 200m duration: duration: duration: 3 years 10 years 7 years To develop, deliver and To administer Service improvement and host NHS Choices, the approximately 1.1 million business transformation digital channel to connect life and pension policies.
including ICT, revenue, citizens and intermediaries Approx 300 staff transfer benefits and cashiering, with the NHS.
HR and payroll andfinancial business transactions.
Maintaining performance across our divisions Securing appropriate pricing Maintaining a strong and contract terms competitive position Our major contracts are long term commitments.
So it Outsourcing has evolved rapidly from delivering cost is essential to get our pricing and contract terms correct driven, single service solutions to creating long term, from the start, to deliver value to both the Group and multi-service partnerships focused on business our clients.
Cost efficiency remains an important reason for outsourcing, but it is To ensure prudent pricing, we clearly separate equally important to consider how outsourcing can add responsibilities.
Sales teams are responsible for client more value to our clients operations and help them to relationships: sales support teams develop pricing and increase effectiveness and maintain competitiveness.
On all major bids, pricing is agreed by The case studies in this report pages 24-25, 33, 38-39, the Board.
45, 53 and 60 illustrate how we deliver added value.
We undertake extensive due diligence to build detailed Our knowledge base and technical infrastructure, service, risk and pricing models.
We often share these built over 25 years, make us a compelling choice.
openly with our prospective clients to ensure that all We have unrivalled skills and infrastructure, and have our assumptions for delivering successfully on the consistently led and helped shape the market by project are robust and that the benefits generated to developing our outsourcing offering.
We respond both parties are fully understood.
to clients specified requirements but often also Our contract price is generally made up of a base cost propose alternative service models that deliver that covers the transformation and normal running even greater benefits.
Where demand on the service infrastructure fluctuates, the pricing will include a variable volume-related element.
All contracts include a related basket of indices that reflect the cost elements of the service such as wage inflation and RPI.
Our track record experience in pricing contracts correctly enables us to offer clients sensible and realistic proposals while robustly managing and mitigating risk.
We consistently provide: We have an established track record of: Market expertise Smoothly transferring processes and people Depth and flexibility of expert resources Delivering business transformation and improved services Extensive and flexible infrastructure Achieving business process efficiencies A wide range of ICT solutions Delivering quality customer service Onshore, nearshore and offshore delivery options Providing efficient, consistent service Financial strength and stability.
Innovating practically and realistically Creating scale economies Achieving cost savings Adding additional business benefits Creating long term sustainable partnerships.
Business review The Capita Group Plc 21 We are the clear UK market leader in BPO, with an 1.2 Stimulating growth excellent track record of service delivery and a strong through acquisitions set of satisfied client referees.
As a UK based business serving an almost exclusively UK based clientele, we Acquisitions have consistently played a key role in have a detailed knowledge of our market: and our stimulating our growth.
We continuously look to management team is highly accessible and swift to acquire niche businesses that will support and respond to our clients needs.
supplement our organic growth by enhancing our existing offering or market reach.
Our clients are highly selective.
Increasingly, they seek outsourcing partners who have not just the expertise and capacity to support them but also the financial Selecting acquisitions for growth strength and stability essential to building a long term partnership.
We, too, must be selective and in We focus on acquiring small to medium sized weakening economic conditions we have been businesses that will strengthen our position in our extending our due diligence of potential clients.
target markets, bring complementary skills and services, and provide opportunities to create further Capitas strong balance sheet and cash flow reassure economies of scale or expand our current reach.
clients that their service is in the hands of a stable partner.
Our proven record of strong governance and We will also acquire businesses which help us enter ethical, socially responsible behaviour is also a or grow our presence in a new market.
Together, these elements clearly insurance and financial services, for example, we differentiate us from competitors and are significant entered each market with an acquisition.
Expanding our barriers to entry for new participants in all our markets.
presence through subsequent acquisitions and contract wins brought us significant scale and good returns.
To stimulate growth we generally seek target acquisitions that: have operations and customers in the UK and or Ireland fit with our strategy and core competencies generate sustainable, quality revenues.
We are highly selective when assessing potential acquisitions.
In the past year we assessed some 100 acquisitions but proceeded with only 12.
Maintaining performance across our divisions Applying rigorous criteria when Adding value through acquisitions selecting targets and agreeing In 2008 we spent 147.4m on 12 acquisitions, and in the first 2 months of 2009 we spent a further 13.6m purchase prices on 2 acquisitions.
Potential acquisitions are identified and brought to the The current economic climate is creating a healthy Group by people in our businesses, external consultants pipeline of acquisition opportunities, particularly in or direct approaches.
We are highly selective: in the past financial services and IT.
We expect this to continue year we assessed some 100 acquisitions and proceeded throughout 2009.
There is a good volume of with only 12.
Due diligence is undertaken at both Group opportunities valued at attractive levels.
We will and business level and all acquisitions are assessed, remain disciplined when assessing opportunities.
priced and agreed by the Board.
We tend to select acquisition targets that are: Successfully integrating acquisitions privately owned We have substantial experience of successfully too small to interest the private equity market integrating acquired businesses and achieving synergies not in an auction we aim to acquire without with our existing operations.
Stringent due diligence, competition before and after acquisition, enables us to set clear targets for growth, integration benefits and profit.
attractively priced, with scope to add value for A dedicated project team manages the transition shareholders.
bringing financial procedures, information and This disciplined approach enables us to negotiate communications technology ICT, HR, legal, sensible purchase prices and terms, so generating compliance and marketing quickly into line with good returns for the Group.
our standards, using Group systems and resources where available.
Acquiring only small to medium sized businesses enables us to integrate them into our existing business infrastructure efficiently and generally allows us to generate value faster.
Acquisitions 2008 LEGAL SERVICES INSURANCE FINANCIAL SERVICES PROPERTY IT SERVICES INSURANCE d3 Investment Schoolsafe Niewenhuis Corporate Lovejoy Partnership ComputerLand UK Lancaster Insurance Services Services value: value: value: value: value: value: 1.2m 2.0m 4.3m 5.0m 27.8m 16.5m 1.5m 1.5m 2.5m 5.0m net of cash acquired net of cash acquired Investment in legal services An intermediary for the Provides trust One of the UKs leading Provides services designed Specialises in providing administration company.
provision of supply teacher administration and land planning and design to improve business insurance for classic cars.
practices: planning and productivity, increase the Will add both new, designing the environment quality of IT and reduce IT specialist expertise and around buildings.
important cost synergies The increased scale offered to Capitas personal by this acquisition will insurance intermediary and enable Capita to offer administration business.
enhanced propositions to existing and new clients.
Total spent: 147.4m 2007: 114m Deferred consideration Business review The Capita Group Plc 23 Progress & new Priorities for 2009 developments in 2008 Organic growth Organic growth Secured 17 major contracts worth a total of 1.24bn Across the Group, identify quality new business opportunities to maintain a buoyant bid pipeline Bid pipeline of major contract opportunities 3.1bn Feb 2009 Continue addressing opportunities selectively Increased business intelligence and engagement Maintain bid process disciplines to secure across target markets appropriate pricing and contract terms Grew central Major Sales Team Maintain increased focus on business intelligence and pre-sales client engagement Potential clients increasingly seeking partners with financial strength and stability Address new business segments such as health and defence markets Increased due diligence on potential clients.
Maintain focus on retaining and expanding existing contracts.
Acquisitions Acquisitions Spent 147.4m on 12 acquisitions Continue to encourage businesses to identify Strong pipeline of acquisition opportunities suitable acquisitions Interesting opportunities, particularly in financial Select acquisitions that complement or grow our services and IT business offering More reasonable valuations.
Maintain rigorous criteria for selecting targets Maintain stringent disciplines regarding pricing Continue to enhance integration process.
PROPERTY FINANCIAL SERVICES SOFTWARE PROPERTY IT SERVICES HEALTH NRM Bobrowski Weedon Grant IBS OPENSystems Pearce Buckle ABS Network MMO Solutions value: value: value: value: value: value: 2.0m 1.1m 69.6m 2.5m 13.6m 1.8m net of cash acquired net of cash acquired 2.5m 0.4m 1.5m 0.1m A provider of software Provides IP based business Specialises in structural Treasury and financial A leading provider of Membership systems and related networking solutions and civil engineering.
adviser to housing professional consultancy administration software services for the and will bring CISCO associations.
services for new build and provider for NHSTrusts.
management of social accreditations and existing structures in the housing and the collection capability in emerging commercial and public and payment of revenues technologies.
Will further and benefits to local cost savings in spend enhance the services authorities and housing on CISCO equipment offered by Capita Symonds.
24 The Capita Group Plc Case study: Co-operative Financial Services The objective: motivate and focus 800 people on cutting operating costs while continuously improving customer service.
Motivating people to improve performance A smooth transfer Good communications Business review The Capita Group Plc 25 In November 2007, the Co-operative Financial We published a business scorecard focusing Services CFS life and savings business unit on what success looked like for all our brought Capita in to run their administration stakeholders.
Incentives were aligned to the operation.
The objective: motivate and focus scorecard making it clear to every member of 800 people on cutting operating costs while the team that their performance contributed to continuously improving customer service.
the success of the operation.
We monitored progress, took on board feedback and published Within a year, customer complaints were down regular updates about how we were doing.
by 45%, staff attrition had been cut by 80%, and average end-to-end processing times had For our customers, service levels have gone been halved.
All the first-year service level up and up since our contract with Capita targets were being met consistently and so started, adds Dick Parkhouse, Managing David Carrie were two-thirds of the targets for year 3.
Director of CFS Retail Division.
This is testament to the success of the partnership, How was it done?
which was recognised at the National Together with CFS we identified, developed Outsourcing Association Awards 2008, and implemented meaningful service where we were crowned BPO Project of the measurements and a performance regime Year and Outsourcing End User of the Year.
geared towards driving rapid improvement, says David Carrie left, who runs Capita Life & Pensions Services Manchester Operations.
If we were going to meet our targets, we had to bring together a disparate group of employees from across a number of CFS sites to operate as one team under one roof.
That was only going to happen if we had open and regular communication.
