Generating profitable growth A clear business strategy 2.
Maintaining performance across our divisions 2.
Controlling and measuring growth Strong leadership and clear business practices are essential to creating a financially stable organisation capable of supporting sustained growth and delivering healthy investor returns.
With Capitas stable and inspiring management team and robust business practices in place we concentrate on delivering our long term contracts successfully and generating steady, controlled growth.
Our growth is underpinned by the following disciplines and these remain our priorities for 2009: 2.1 Maintaining strong structure and control through robust management and operating structures.
2.2 Focusingon clearfinancial key performance indicators KPIs with strong financial controls and effective governance.
2.3 Maintaining careful risk management consistently throughout the Group.
Our principal financial KPIs year end 2008 year end 2007 Operating margins 13.15% 13.09% Maintain and strengthen margins Free cash ow 219m 184m Maintain strong free underlying cash ow Return on capital employed ROCE 20.4% 19.6% Achieve ROCE which exceeds our cost of capital Economic profit 140m 110m Achieve steadily increasing economic profit Gearing interest cover 7.4x 8x Maintain efficient capital structure, with relatively low gearing Capital expenditure 3.5% 3.5% Keep at or below 4% of revenue See p28-31 for further details.
Business review The Capita Group Plc 27 Each of our business units prepares a comprehensive 2.1 Maintaining strong annual business plan.
This includes monthly revenue structure and control and cost forecasts for the year ahead, taking into account new service product developments and Our management structure and business reporting changes in the competitive landscape.
The business process promote accountability and knowledge unit financial plans feed into the Group financial model.
sharing across the Group, keeping management responsive to issues and trends in the business and the Monthly operational business MOB reviews focus wider marketplace.
on the performance of each business unit in each division.
Each division holds pre-MOB reviews where The Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, management teams assess each units performance 3 Non-Executive Directors and 5 Executive Directors against plan and discuss its ongoing development.
Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Chief This enables them to determine how planned targets Operating Officer, Business Development Director and will be met and identify potential difficulties at an a part-time Executive Director.
The Board is responsible early stage.
These are forums to share knowledge and for establishing, maintaining and reviewing the Groups challenges, develop tactics, reallocate resources and growth strategy, financial performance, systems of refresh strategies to meet or exceed business plans.
internal control and Group-wide policies.
See pages Board Executive Directors attend divisional MOBs, 62-63 for further details on Board members.
ensuring they have a detailed knowledge of the The Chief Operating Officer and the Divisional progress of the divisions and a monthly view of actual Directors are responsible for the development and and anticipated performance against business plans.
performance of the divisional businesses.
They communicate and monitor the application of Groupwide business objectives, policies, procedures and standards.
They work with and delegate responsibility to their management teams.
The Board Independent governance Non-Executive Chairman 3 x Non-Executive Directors Group Audit Committee 5 x Executive Directors: External Auditors Chief Executive Group Finance Director Chief Operating Officer Business Development Director Executive Director Monthly Operational Business MOB reviews Board Executive Directors Internal governance Divisional Directors Group Compliance Divisional Management Teams Group Risk and Business Assurance Risk Committees Business units 28 The Capita Group Plc 1.
Maintaining performance across our divisions 2.2 Focusing on clear financial KPIs Cash flow We are a financially focused business.
We monitor and Aim: to maintain strong operating and free challenge financial performance at all levels to probe cash flow.
Capita generates a predictable and the health and progress of our businesses and promote consistent cash flow.
As well as profitability, we use a range In 2008, we generated operating cash flow of 392m, of financial measures at Group level.
Collectively they representing an operating profit to cash conversion form an integral part of the way we build consistent, rate of 122%.
Our underlying free cash flow, defined as long term value for our shareholders.
operating cash flow less capital expenditure, interest We focus particularly on KPIs in 6 areas and these and taxation, increased by 19% to 219m.
remain our priorities for 2009: Our success reflects the strength of our business model and management approach, in particular: Operating margins securing timely payment terms Aim: to maintain and strengthen margins.
focusing on cash generation We constantly monitor operating margins and manage operating costs to keep the business providing valued services efficient and cost effective.
maintaining an efficient finance function.
In 2008, we continued our long term trend of improving operating margins before amortisation with an annual increase of 6 basis points bpts to Cash flow from operating activities m 13.15% 2007: 13.09%.
We achieved this progression Annual growth 5 year compound growth even though we invested heavily in our Life & Pensions business and implemented a record number of major 17% 20% new contracts.
We are focused on delivering value for our shareholders.
An effective way of measuring this is to assess whether our after tax returns are sufficient to cover the returns required from all our capital providers.
Group economic profit allows us to assess whether the return generated on the average capital base is sufficient to meet the return requirements of our investors debt and equity.
Positive economic profit therefore means that we have created value.
Maintaining performance across our divisions Return on capital employed ROCE Gearing Aim: steadily increasing ROCE which exceeds our cost Aim: maintain a conservative and efficient capital of capital.
structure, with a relatively low level of gearing.
This ensures that we add shareholder value over the It is important for our clients that we are a low risk, long term.
In recent years we have successfully widened stable partner, particularly where we are delivering the margin between the cost of our capital and the large scale operations on their behalf and even more so returns we generate by investing it.
during the current volatile economic conditions.
The Group has considerable headroom to take on further In the chart below the weighted average cost of capital debt if necessary, as indicated by the interest cover WACC indicates the return that could be expected ratio and net debt to earnings before interest, tax, from the capital invested in the business.
It is depreciation and amortisation EBITDA.
However, we calculated by weighting the cost of our debt and equity would be unlikely to incur borrowings which would financing in line with the amounts of debt and equity reduce interest cover below 7 times.
Group interest that we use to finance our activities.
We have cover for the year ended 31 December 2008 was calculated our WACC assuming a risk free rate of 7.4 times.
4.47%, an equity risk premium of 5.93% and a Beta of 0.749.
During 2008, our post tax return on average capital Balance sheet gearing 2008 2007 employed improved to 20.4% 2007: 19.6%.
This Net debt compares to our estimated WACC which is 8.2%.
Bond debt m 679 479 Bank facilities drawn deposit m 87 45 Loan note m 4 2 Net return on capital % Total net debt m 596 526 2008 Net return on capital Interest cover 7.4x 8x WACC 20.4% Net debt to EBITDA 1.6 1.7 20.4 Underlying net debt after impact of currency and interest swaps 19.6 18.5 17.1 16.1 14.6 8.6 8.5 8.2 8.5 8.4 8.2 03 04 05 06 07 08 Business review The Capita Group Plc 31 Interest rate profile We aim to maintain a balanced interest rate risk profile.
We have 679m of private placement debt 100m matures later this year and 579m matures between 2012 and 2018.
In February 2008, Capita executed a series of callable swaps to convert from a variable rate based upon paying 6 month LIBOR to a fixed rate of interest of 5.25% on 479m of placement debt.
Following the dramatic fall in interest rates at the end of 2008 and an increase in the implied volatilities, these swaps show a negative mark to market value of 32m at 31 December 2008.
This represents a noncash accounting loss in the year that will reverse as the mark to market valuation will tend towards zero as the swaps approach maturity or cancellation.
The Group maintains a balanced interest rate risk profile by way of the remaining private placement debt of 200m and a revolving credit facility of 245m that both pay floating rate interest.
As at 31 December 2008, all of this credit facility was unutilised.
Capital expenditure Aim: keep capital expenditure capex at or below 4% of revenue.
This helps us to focus investment on the opportunities that generate greatest shareholder value and avoid tying up too much capital in long term projects.
In 2008 we met this objective, with net capex at 3.5% of annual revenue.
We believe capex at or below 4% is sustainable for the foreseeable future.
There are currently no indications of significant capex requirements in our business forecasts or bid pipeline.
But we would not rule out the possibility of exceeding 4% if we saw an exceptional opportunity to use our financial strength as a competitive advantage.
Maintaining performance across our divisions Across our regulated businesses, the MOB process is 2.3 Maintaining careful supplemented by formally constituted committees.
risk management At Group level, risk management is independently Systems and procedures are in place across the Group facilitated and challenged by the Group Risk and to identify, assess and mitigate major business risks Business Assurance function, which reports to the that could impact the delivery of our growth strategy.
Group Finance Director and independently to the Monitoring our exposure to risk is an integral part of Audit Committee.
See information on pages 27 the MOB process, described on page 27. and 66-67.
Risk management Risk category Risk mitigation 2008 update Financial Capital expenditure is subject to rigorous budgetary controls and spending Ongoing above specified levels requires Group sign off Financial performance of each business unit is monitored each month and actual progress against plan is challenged by the Executive Directors Treasury management the Groups financial instruments for fundraising are bonds, unsecured loan notes, finance leases and overdrafts.
The Group has various other financial instruments such as trade creditors and debtors that arise directly from its operations.
Where appropriate, the Group may also use derivatives to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in interest rate and foreign exchange rates.
It is the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments will be undertaken.
Operational risk Escalated via the MOB process and Risk Committees to Divisional Regular security risk assessments are carried out in areas that manage Directors and the Board as appropriate sensitive customer data to ensure the strongest levels of security are in place Processes and appropriate multiple operating performance indicators Continuous review of information security policies and procedures to deal in place across all businesses contracts with the evolving threat to data security Key Group forums in place strengthening operational risk support Working with public and private sector clients to risk assess security in the areas of: measures in place to protect client data.
Information Security Business Continuity Payment Card Industry Compliance New contracts Board involvement in all major contracts Ongoing Aligned with core competencies and financial targets Rigorous pricing and risk assessment, separate from sales process Secure appropriate pricing and contract terms to ensure fair risk reward profile Detailed, tailored transition process to ensure continuity of service and retention of staff.
Fraud Mitigating policies and procedures are published by the Group Risk and The Groups online fraud awareness training has been updated and is being Business Assurance function in conjunction with Group Compliance.
rolled out across all business units Fraud benchmarking exercises are regularly carried out in key areas of the Group to constantly assess levels of fraud prevention in place against current best practice Working with clients in the life and pensions market to implement best practice fraud prevention controls.
Financial services Monitoring by the Group Compliance function to ensure that regulatory risks Monitoring has been undertaken on the control processes on a regular basis regulation are identified, assessed, monitored, managed and controlled and reports made to senior management on the outcomes of these reviews Reporting to senior management on a timely, complete and accurate basis Assessments of additional measures or changes in practices required to comply with financial services regulation were conducted and appropriate Ensuring the business has appropriate policies and procedures in place.
action taken to incorporate them into the policies, systems and procedures of the Group.
Acquisitions Aligned with core competencies and financial targets Ongoing Rigorous, risk-based due diligence process Fit with strategy and pricing is subject to consideration and approval by the Board Clear transition process to ensure adoption of Group policies and procedures.
Reputation Robust process for handling and escalating enquiries complaints from all Centralised proactive and reactive PR team to promote Group and stakeholders at both a business contract and Group level primarily clients, business units and manage communications regarding issues.
Procurement Supplier segmentation and risk categorisation in place Continuing with supplier registration and assessment.
Active supplier engagement and management processes.
Spend analysis tools implemented in 2008 A supplier rationalisation programme defined, to commence in 2009.
Attracting and Investment in training and development Continual development of our screening and reference process for all retaining staff employees.
Competitive, appropriate incentive schemes Succession planning is a key element of MOB process.
Business review The Capita Group Plc 33 Case study: Coal Health Claims Improving services through process re-engineering The objective: compensate miners faster and with less red tape.
The Coal Health Compensation CHC schemes To provide a one-stop shop for devising and covering respiratory and vibration diseases, are implementing solutions and improvements, the biggest personal injury schemes in British we created a solutions centre that brought legal history.
In February 2004, Capita was together key support functions such as appointed by the Department of Energy and planning, project management, quality and Climate Change to administer both schemes.
And to measure improvements across all areas we introduced a Our main objective was to get miners business excellence model.
After 3 years wed compensated faster and with less red tape delivered an overall operational improvement of but without compromising the schemes, around 70%, measured against the model.
says Andrew Beer left, Managing Director One change alone the introduction of of Capita Insurance Services BPO.
compensation calculators saved 200 working To do that we had to develop employees years and 60m in related costs, and weve skills, improve quality standards and deliver Andrew Beer saved almost 20m through fraud investigation.
Our business transformation programme focused on In 2007, CHC received Recognised for Excellence productivity and staff management, 5 Star status, winning a special award for short and long term planning, process Employee Satisfaction.
We also won the North re-engineering and IT.
The programme of England Excellence Award for private sector yielded immediate results.
This was followed in 2008 by a coveted Ambassadors Blue Riband Award in the Chartered Quality Institute and London Excellence national award scheme.
Today, Capita pays out on average 0.5m in compensation to former miners every working day.
And by January 2009, over 738,000 claims had been settled, involving payments totalling over 3.98bn.
Source: European Foundation of Quality Management
