Business review The Capita Group Plc 41 We recognise and reward success financially, and 3.4 Creating successful supplier through our employee awards programmes.
Awards relationships reflect the attributes that are core to Capitas ethos: effective teamwork, innovation, service excellence We understand the importance of building mutually and community engagement, and offer an opportunity beneficial relationships with our suppliers.
By securing to recognise exceptional individual and team best value goods and services through good performance.
procurement practice, we can directly improve our business performance.
We engage with our employees, promoting two-way communication and asking them to give their views.
We manage 3 types of supplier relationships: our We aim to provide a secure, trusting no blame culture, Group Procurement team manages our Group-wide where ideas are shared regardless of position, so that contracts, procurement specialists in our businesses everyone can participate in adding value across our manage purchasing at a local level and we now also business.
An open door policy throughout the Group directly manage some of our clients supplier is supplemented by more formal communication relationships.
Our people also have the opportunity to Our procurement policies and guidelines, supported by communicate their views in an annual employee our procurement manual, state how we manage our survey.
procurement and supply chain, to meet both financial Our ability to manage employee integration through and CR targets.
Where we undertake procurement on supportive transfer procedures is one of our greatest behalf of clients, it is still important to follow the strengths.
We apply the same principles of support and principles of these policies.
integration to all our newly transferred employees and We view supplier diversity as an opportunity that new recruits, providing them with the information they makes sound business sense.
We recognise that our need and dealing with any specific queries or worries suppliers play a key role and are an important source of they may have.
To help them integrate successfully new ideas, innovation and support, irrespective of size, into Capita we consult with them throughout the background or composition.
process and provide support, explaining the benefits of the transfer and of sharing Capitas future success.
Suppliers who register on our Capita supplier programme are questioned on their culture and values, environmental credentials, health and safety record and commitment to corporate responsibility.
We have recently reviewed this programme and will be launching a new enhanced supplier registration system during 2009.
Employee numbers We have a wealth of experience in working with subcontractors and partners, using their specialist 36,300 skills to deliver appropriate, responsible and cost effective services.
Under our subcontracting policy we apply stringent criteria when selecting subcontractors 04 19,000 and once selected, they work within a fully integrated 05 23,000 delivery and reporting framework.
This gives our clients 06 25,000 full visibility and control of performance regardless of 07 27,800 our subcontracting arrangements.
08 29,300 36,300 09 All figures at end of February Employees by location 1.
