82 The Capita Group Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 1 Corporate information The consolidated financial statements of The Capita Group Plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 25 February 2009.
The Capita Group Plc is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded.
The principal activities of the Group are given in the business review on pages 54-60.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of The Capita Group Plc and all of its subsidiaries the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 and 2006.
The parent company continues to apply UK GAAP in the preparation of its individual financial statements and these are contained on pages 119-130. b Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under IFRS where certain financial instruments and the pension assets and liabilities have been measured at fair value.
The carrying value of recognised assets and liabilities that are hedged are adjusted to record changes in the fair values attributable to the risks that are being hedged.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest tenth of a million m except when otherwise indicated.
c Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of The Capita Group Plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies, but in accordance with UK GAAP.
Adjustments are made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist between IFRS and UK GAAP.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the Directors to make judgements and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements and the reported income and expense during the reported periods.
Although these judgements and assumptions are based on the Directors best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results may differ from these estimates.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the measurement and impairment of goodwill and the measurement of defined benefit obligations and defined benefit assets.
The measurement of intangible assets other than goodwill on a business combination involves estimation of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis and thus requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which the intangible assets are allocated.
This involves estimation of future cash flows and choosing a suitable discount rate see note 14.
Measurement of defined benefit obligations requires estimation of future changes in salaries and inflation, as well as mortality rates, the expected return on assets and the selection of a suitable discount rate see note 31.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intragroup transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group until control is transferred out of the Group.
Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the results for the part of the reporting year during which The Capita Group Plc has control.
d Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as follows: The Group has adopted the following new amendments to IFRS and IFRIC interpretations during the year.
Adoption of these amendments and interpretations did not have any effect on the financial statements of the Group.
Reclassification of Financial Assets Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements The principal effects of these changes are as follows: Reclassification of Financial Assets Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures These amendments to the standards, issued in October 2008, permit an entity to reclassify non-derivative financial assets other than those designated at fair value through profit or loss by the entity upon initial recognition out of the fair value through profit or loss category in particular circumstances.
The amendments also permit an entity to transfer from the available-for-sale category to the loans and receivables category a financial asset that would have met the definition of loans and receivables if the financial asset had not been designated as available for sale, if the entity has the intention and ability to hold that financial asset for the foreseeable future.
These amendments, which are effective from 1 July 2008, have had no impact on the financial statements of the Group.
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements This interpretation, which is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008, provides guidance on the application of existing International Financial Reporting Standards on the accounting by operators for public-to-private service concession arrangements.
Service concession arrangements are arrangements whereby a government or other body grants contracts for the supply of public services, such as roads, energy distribution, prisons or hospitals, to private operators.
Adoption of this interpretation has had no impact on the financial statements of the Group.
