96 The Capita Group Plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements 14 Impairment of goodwill continued The key assumptions used in the impairment testing were as follows: profit before interest and taxation discount rates rates of growth in CGUs for the years 2 to 5.
Profit before interest and taxation The profit before interest and taxation is based on the assumption that future margins will remain at the levels currently being achieved.
Discount rate The discount rate reflects managements estimate of the gross cost of capital employed for the groups of CGUs listed above.
This is the benchmark established to assess operating performance and to evaluate future capital investment proposals.
The rate applied to all CGUs is the same across all units, this reflects the Groups funding arrangements where all units have equal access to the Groups treasury functions and borrowing lines to fund their operations.
No unit demonstrates abnormal levels of risk or funding profile and therefore the discount rate applied is deemed to be justified.
Rates of growth in cash generating units beyond the budget period Growth rate assumptions are based on, as far as possible, published industry research Ovum 2008.
Where the cash generating unit does not correspond directly with the research undertaken then the growth rate used is that of the nearest possible match in relation to the risks experienced within the associated market.
The rates used are further cross-checked with the senior operational management of the units in question.
Goodwill impairment Management believes that no reasonably possible change in the key assumptions above would cause any of the identified CGUs to become impaired.
15 Financial assets 2008 2007 Current m m Cash flow hedges 4.1 0.9 Currency swaps in relation to US$ denominated bonds 0.4 Interest rate swaps in relation to GBP denominated bonds 0.7 5.2 0.9 2008 2007 m m Non Current financial assets 1 Available for sale investments 0.3 0.3 2 Investment loan 35.3 29.1 3 Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 1.6 25.4 4 Cash flow hedges 21.6 4.7 4 Currency swaps in relation to US$ denominated bonds 269.2 1.0 4 Interest rate swap in relation to GBP denominated bonds 4.0 0.1 5 Investment in a joint venture 0.4 332.4 60.6 1 Available for sale assets includes investments in unlisted ordinary shares.
The unlisted ordinary shares, for which there is no immediately identifiable market and which have no fixed maturity date or coupon rate, are carried at cost less provision for any impairment.
2 The Group has entered into a funding arrangement with Optima Legal Services Limited OLSL and during the year has provided it with an additional 6.2m 2007: 16.6m to fund that companys acquisition of further volume legal services businesses.
In addition, the Group entered into an option agreement to acquire the shares of OLSL for 1 in the event that Law Society rules are amended to allow the Group to own the shares in this type of legal services company.
The Group believes that the option should be held at the fair value of 1 as the change in law society rules in favour of the Group is uncertain.
3 Financial assets at fair value through the income statement include investments in units, held in the Groups insurance captives.
The units are held in managed funds comprising units of equities and other assets which are traded with a quoted market price in an active market.
An explanation of the Groups accounting policy with regard to these assets is contained in note 2 m on page 85.
During the year the Group made the decision to withdraw the funds invested in these assets, the remaining units were sold early in 2009, the Group therefore no longer holds units in these funds.
4 The currency swaps are used to hedge the exposure to currency fluctuations on the Groups US dollar denominated bonds.
The asset recognised is equal to the uplift in the fair value of the underlying bonds.
The interest rate swap is used to hedge the fair value of the Groups GBP denominated bonds, and the asset recognised above is equal to the uplift in the fair value of the underlying bonds.
Details of the interest rate swap, currency swaps and cash flow hedges are contained in note 24.
5 The investment in a joint venture disclosed represents the Groups interest in a Syndicate for which the Group provides administrative outsourcing services operating in the Lloyds Market, through its joint venture ownership of Cobex Corporate Member No 1 Limited Cobex in conjunction with the Groups insurance partners.
During the year the Group added further assets and liabilities through the acquisition of further Lloyds Market Syndicates.
The Groups share of the net assets and liabilities of this Syndicate are set out in the following table.
