Generating profitable growth A clear business strategy 2.
Maintaining performance across our divisions 3.5 Environmental management Transport and community engagement Our other significant environmental impact is business travel.
Emissions from travel have grown in recent years as the Group expands, and the expansion of our Environmental management operations in India, Scotland and Ireland has meant a particular increase in our air travel emissions.
As almost all of our employees are office based, our environmental impacts are limited to those associated We try to reduce business travel across the Group with normal modern office facilities.
However we through a number of initiatives.
Video and understand that good environmental management is teleconferencing is now commonplace in our offices: integral to our business and are committed to 78,000 conference calls were made over the past year, minimising the impact of our operations.
more than double the previous year.
As well as reducing our impact on the environment it offers significant financial savings.
Climate change Almost all of our company cars 98.4% run on diesel.
Our most significant environmental impact is energy We promote the benefits of alternatives to car travel, consumption and we remain committed to reducing such as the use of public transport, and have our CO2 emissions where practical.
In 2006 we introduced shuttle buses to and from our larger offices.
launched our Group Energy Reduction programme, to We have also evaluated the Governments cycle to reduce the amount of electricity used at 18 of our work scheme and we aim to implement it across the largest UK sites by 12% by the end of 2008.
We have Groups UK offices in 2009. exceeded this target, reducing energy use by 18.3%, an emissions reduction of 3,300 tonnes of CO2.
Waste management and recycling In 2008 our carbon footprint across the Group was 64,611 tonnes of CO2, an increase of 10.4% over the As part of being a sustainable business we look at the year compared with an 18% growth in Group turnover resources we use and how we recycle them or dispose and a 23% increase in staff numbers.
We are committed to a range of initiatives emissions achieved by the Group Energy Reduction across all areas of our business, primarily focused on programme and increased education regarding energy reducing and managing our waste to maximise efficiency across the Group ensured that our carbon recycling and minimise landfill.
Where waste must be footprint grew at a slower rate than our business.
disposed of, we ensure that it is handled responsibly and in line with all legislation.
We continue to work closely with the Carbon Trust to educate our facilities managers and employees about A number of Group-wide schemes enable employees how they can reduce their own carbon footprints as to recycle paper, toner cartridges, mobile phones, and well as ours.
redundant IT and electrical equipment.
We also aim to use our influence with clients to help them reduce their Our UK operations will be subject to the requirements environmental impact.
In 2008 we doubled our of the Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC virtualised server capacity, offering clients cheaper Regulations coming into force in April 2010.
Our data storage with lower carbon intensity.
preparation is progressing well and has been facilitated by the work already carried out as part of the Group As a significant purchaser, we encourage our suppliers Energy Reduction programme.
to provide us with better-value environmentally responsible products.
We have further developed our relationship with Office Depot, and 18% of our total spend is now on environmentally preferable products.
We are also working with Office Depot on an initiative to replace corrugated packaging with reusable plastic tote boxes across all deliveries to the Group.
Business review The Capita Group Plc 43 Local community impact Charitable support Our business places us at the heart of the communities In January 2008, we began our 2 year partnership with we serve.
We have a positive impact on these Macmillan Cancer Support.
The charity was chosen by communities through the improvement in services we a ballot of our employees from a shortlist of charities deliver for clients, the new jobs we create and our they nominated.
To date we have raised 360,000 community investment programme.
We are for the charity towards our target of raising 1m over committed to working with our local communities, 2 years.
managing any negative impacts of our business Employee fundraising events throughout the year operations and maximising the benefits.
included Capita Challenge and Charity Week.
Capita The services we provide for our clients have a direct Challenge, which has been running since 2004, is an impact on local communities.
We work with our clients adventure race day where teams from our various sites to ensure the services we deliver on their behalf are compete in mental and physical challenges whilst efficient, flexible and inclusive.
By reducing local raising money.
In 2008, 82 teams took part, including authorities administration costs we allow more some from our clients and suppliers, and the event funding to be directed to essential frontline services.
Charity Week, which involves fundraising activities at various business sites, has also been running since 2004.
Charity Week 2008 Community investment was our most successful yet, raising a further 67,000.
We also generated an additional 103,000 for In addition to the benefits our business and services Macmillan by sponsoring the charitys winter ball.
bring, we also donate both time and money to local community initiatives.
Our community investment Over 1,600 employees choose to give to charity programme aims to tackle social exclusion of all kinds.
through our payroll-giving scheme, donating just under It is applied at 2 levels: through a central programme at 120,000 during 2008.
We received the Silver payroll Group level and through the individual businesses at a giving quality mark, recognising that over 5% of our local level.
employees donate to charity through this scheme.
We have also introduced an additional fund to help The programme has now been extended to include our support some of our clients charities, working in operations in India.
Employees there have chosen to partnership with them on their charitable programmes.
focus on projects that improve the education and health of the communities local to our Indian operations.
Full details of our CR priorities, initiatives and We encourage our employees to engage with their progress are set out on our corporate website at local communities.
Following the success of the pilot www.
co. uk , volunteering projects that we ran with Business in where you can create your own online report the Community BITC in 2008, we are now rolling out covering the topics you specify.
our employee volunteering scheme across the whole Group.
With BITCs help we select projects and causes where our help can make the most difference.
Our businesses are also free to support appropriate local initiatives where we are approached directly by the local community.
Maintaining performance across our divisions CR priorities Aim Year end 2008 Year end 2007 Continue to measure and assess our carbon footprint tonnes CO2, to be 64,611 58,523 Environment measured annually.
CO2 emissions rose 10.4% against increases in Group turnover of 18%, and staff numbers of 23% Raise awareness of environmental issues and Group initiatives across the business Established Ongoing environmental section on employee intranet Undertake environmental site audits twice a year Audits completed Audits completed Achieve 12% reduction in electricity used at our 18 largest sites by 2008 -18.3% -8% Continue switching fleet vehicles to diesel engines 98.4% 95% Achieve further ISO 14001 accreditations at our higher impact sites 47 37 Further promote BT conference call facility 78,000 34,463 conference calls conference calls Corporate donations 0.6m 0.5m Communities 1 Raise meaningful sums for our corporate charities: In 2008 we set a target Raised 360k of 1m over 2 years for our new charity partner, Macmillan Cancer Support Maximise the fundraising potential of our Group-wide Charity Week Raised 67k Raised 48k Ensure we provide safe and productive working environments for all our 1.57 2.05 Health and safety employees accident frequency rate per 1,000 employees RIDDOR Undertake health and safety site audits twice a year Audits completed Audits completed Attract and retain the appropriate level of senior management to drive the 88% 89% Senior strategic direction of the Group salaries exceeding 90k p. a. management retention Attract and retain the right people to deliver Group strategy, maintaining 82% 82% Overall employee 2 employee retention at or above industry average 2008: 82.7%, 2007: 81.9% retention Have at least 10% of our workforce based in India by end 2009 8.9% 4.5% Employees by location Reflect the communities in which we work: Diversity of people Male female split 52% male 51% male 48% female 49% female Male female split for management salaries 50k 89k p. a.
74% male 81% male 26% female 19% female Male female split for management salaries exceeding 90k p. a.
88% male 88% male 12% female 12% female 3 Ethnic diversity employees from ethnic minority groups 15.5% 8% Provide flexible working hours while ensuring maximum flexibility in 15.5% 17% Part-time working Group resources.
Percentage of part-time employees of total workforce Annually audit all tier 1 suppliers against Capitas standards of business 100% 50% Creating successful Consistently increase the number of supplier audits across all our Group suppliers.
40% 41% supplier 40% audited against a 23% increase in suppliers audited audited relationships 1 Exceeded our target of raising 1.5m over the previous 3 years for our 2005-2007 corporate charities NSPCC and The Princes Trust.
3 Information now held centrally on SAP system: only 60% of employees chose to provide this information.
Business review The Capita Group Plc 45 Case study: eircom Customer service that serves The transformation at eircoms contact centre in Dublin has been spectacular.
Annualised staff attrition has fallen from over 250% to under 30%, average call waiting time has been cut from over 6 minutes to just 20 seconds, and customer satisfaction levels have risen from just over 30% in 2005 to 79% in 2008.
The change began in 2005, when Capita joined what is now a multi-contract partnership between eircom and Capita to provide a managed service for eircoms telesales, business and consumer customer service and directory enquiries operations.
Before Capitas involvement, eircom was using an extremely costly agency based employment model, resulting in high staff turnover and very poor service levels.
David Kelly Average call waiting time has been reduced from over 6 minutes to We adopted a performance based culture and offered employees permanent contracts just 20 seconds with competitive pay and benefits, says David Kelly above, Capita Client Services Director.
The result was an immediate and dramatic drop in staff attrition and a gradual improvement in customer satisfaction.
Gerry Culligan, Director of Consumer Markets 2008: 20 seconds at eircom, is delighted.
Were very pleased to have established such a successful partnership with Capita.
Theyve provided a 2007: 6 minutes first class outsourced service and constantly review their operations to ensure that this continues to be the case.
