Business review The Capita Group Plc 55 5.1 Alignment with Group strategy 5.3 A flexible divisional operating structure We maintain a simple, pragmatic divisional structure that delivers our Group strategy.
We have created a pragmatic, flexible structure which is regularly refreshed as the Group develops.
We move The operating divisions and the businesses within them businesses, contracts and managers across the are aligned with the Groups overall objectives and divisions to ensure the best match of leadership and strategy.
They all follow the Group strategy of securing resources as the Group grows.
The businesses benefit strong, sustainable growth, both organically and by from the powerful combination of individual focus and acquiring complementary businesses.
the ability to reach out across the Group to share Each business produces its own annual business plan operational skills and resources, benefit from outlining specific strategies and considerations and economies of scale, create and deploy innovation, and setting performance targets for the following year.
harness the best of ICT and business processes.
The MOB review process ensures regular monitoring We are currently organised into 5 operating divisions, and reporting of performance against targets and is an plus a Group Sales & Marketing Division.
Each effective forum for planning ahead, solving issues and operating division brings together activities with sharing expertise and support.
See page 27. similar operating models or client bases.
Each major The divisional structure supports a robust, individual contract secured by the Group sales team is managed focus for each business while providing ready access to within the division which best meets its operational, the Groups wider resources, expertise and economies regulatory and management requirements.
greater transparency we report financial progress for 8 business segments, splitting 3 of the 5 operating 5.2 An individual business focus divisions Insurance & Investor Sevices, Integrated With an objective of achieving continuous growth, Sevices and ICT, Property & Partnerships each into each business undertakes appropriate strategies to 2 segments.
achieve or maintain market leading positions.
Research Group-wide support services, such as finance, legal and development initiatives underpin the constant and commercial, property management, procurement, development of products and services to meet the health and safety and environment and HR, report current and future needs of clients.
Businesses adopt directly to Board Executive Directors to ensure robust the most appropriate marketing and sales activities to control, consistent standards and shared benefits address the characteristics of their individual across the Group.
Each business also maintains strict disciplines on cost control.
INTEGRATED SERVICES ICT, PROPERTY & PARTNERSHIPS Integrated HR Services IT Services Specialist Services ComputerLand BBC contracts  Partnerships Criminal Records Bureau Health Services TfL Congestion Charging Offshore: India Gas Registration & Ancillary Services Capita Symonds Central Government Services Administration Services Business Travel & Conferences
