Generating profitable growth A clear business strategy 2.
Maintaining performance across our divisions 3.2 Building scale and capacity and Capita India growing our infrastructure Our offshore operations in India apply key skills and expertise to deliver quality, cost effective services We have built up an extensive operational to clients.
infrastructure and a depth of capabilities which enable us to fully support our clients, provide flexible Since we established our operations in India in 2003 operating models and share economies of scale.
they have played an increasingly important role in our business.
Capita India is an integrated part of the Our continued growth and success depends on Group and operates like any other Capita business with having the right resources in place both in terms of the same values, technical infrastructure and operating infrastructure and people.
To sustain our high contract model.
It continues to develop strongly both in scale win and retention rates, we have to satisfy clients that and scope of services.
we have the operational scale and capability to deliver our promises whether on relatively simple contracts Following the transfer of some of Prudentials Indian or large scale, multi-service partnerships.
operations to Capita as part of the Prudential contract in October 2008, we now have 3 sites in Mumbai and We continuously assess the needs of each business we have established a new site in Pune.
These centres unit to ensure that we have the necessary people, are specialist centres, delivering services to multiple infrastructure and resources for current and future clients or providing multiple services to a single client.
Each month we review comprehensive We benefit from being able to attract and retain a operational management information through the highly skilled and professional workforce.
MOB review process which enables us to manage the business in a way that delivers our key financial targets.
The sites share a combined management team to ensure they all benefit from their collective skills and we proactively recruit from the highly skilled graduate Leveraging scale and resources workforce that is available in these areas.
Their skills, knowledge and excellent work ethic help us meet our The substantial scale and broad capability we have objectives of delivering a first class service to our created enable us to put forward increasingly clients.
compelling propositions to clients and win major integrated service transformations across the public We had 3,000 employees working in our operations in and private sectors.
India at the end of 2008 and expect to have 4,500 by the end of 2009.
The addition of progressively larger contracts, with common processes and substantial numbers of transferring staff has accelerated the growth of our Blended service delivery operations and resources.
This in turn enables us to deliver more services and contracts through shared Our infrastructure allows us to offer clients an ICT platforms and operating structures, providing onshore offshore delivery model structured to meet greater benefits to clients.
They benefit not only their individual needs.
By combining onshore and from substantial cost efficiencies but also from offshore resources we can deliver maximum service greater access to specialist skills and flexible service flexibility, quality and cost effectiveness, and our delivery models.
comprehensive security and quality assurance systems ensure consistent service quality across Our business centres, where we are able to run a the entire infrastructure.
broad range of shared services to provide cost efficiencies to customers and a higher level of service quality, form a central part of our service delivery infrastructure.
At the end of 2008 we had an infrastructure of 62 business centres onshore in the UK, nearshore in Ireland and the Channel Islands, and offshore in India.
As excellent reference sites, they are an asset to the sales process, allowing potential clients to see operations first hand and to speak with operational staff who have transferred to Capita from client organisations.
