Business review The Capita Group Plc 37 Business centre network 3.3 Motivated workforce Capita is a people business.
We depend on the Onshore: UK dedication and enthusiasm of our 36,000 employees Core client marketplace to consistently deliver high quality services to our clients.
54 business centres Back office administration To attract and retain the best people, we aim to provide a workplace that is supportive, rewarding, Customer services diverse, safe and inspiring.
The range of career Life & pensions opportunities within Capita continues to grow as the IT & software Group expands.
We encourage and support personal Resourcing & training and career development with a range of structured training options.
Share registration We ensure our managers have the right training and Property consultancy knowledge to embed Group policies at local level and Electronic document processing we empower them to make decisions and respond Claims & policy administration quickly to clients needs and business issues.
In order HR administration to promote knowledge sharing across the Group, we actively reassign managers to new business areas when appropriate and when it will not impact on service delivery to our clients.
In turn our managers Nearshore: Ireland, Channel Islands, Gibraltar benefit as they develop their skills and knowledge Additional tax jurisdictions to support clients products and remain motivated.
4 business centres Although few activities at Capita present a high safety Customer services risk, we implement robust health and safety procedures company-wide and provide specific training Life & pensions administration for any employees facing safety risks.
Financial services Corporate registrars Attracting the right people It is essential to attract the right people.
As the Group has expanded, we have been able to offer broader opportunities to our employees, making us increasingly attractive to people looking for a challenging and Offshore: India varied career.
Quality, cost effective offshore service delivery Because around 70% of our people transfer to us 4 business centres from other organisations, we have a constant flow of Data validation & entry talented and experienced people.
We work hard to Claims & policy administration ensure that all employees understand and adopt our company workplace culture and values.
Fund management administration Accounting & finance processing Our relatively flat management structure allows fast decision making, teamworking and support across the Group and enables open access and communication for all our people.
We are continuing to invest in senior management to support the growth we anticipate going forward and in 2008, we recruited 62 senior managers taking our senior management team to 433.
We have created an environment which rewards performance.
Remuneration packages across the Group are set at levels that keep us competitive in each part of the business.
For our senior people, responsible for the overall direction and performance of the Group or its component parts, a significant element of their financial reward is linked to the financial success of the business.
3 38 8 T Th he e C Ca ap pi it ta a G Gr ro ou up p P Pl lc c Case study: Capita in Sheffield From regeneration...
Using our skills to make a difference in the communities in which we work.
Capitas presence in Sheffield dates back to 1994.
We now employ over 3,000 staff, making us one of the Citys largest employers.
Over the past 14 years weve used our skills to make a difference in the local communities in which we work.
Weve supported local charities, schools, colleges and community initiatives, created new quality job opportunities and helped regenerate various areas of the City.
Regeneration Sheffield has run a huge programme of regeneration over the last 10-15 years and Capita Symonds, our property consultancy, has been right at the heart of it, says Tan Khan, the firms Regional Director.
Were currently managing over 20 regeneration projects across the City including mixed use developments and projects to transform previously derelict landscapes.
Job creation As a growing organisation we continue to create opportunities for professionals in the region.
Capita Hartshead, part of our Life & Pensions business based in Sheffield, currently employs over 400 people and thats expected to rise to 700 by 2010.
It runs a graduate recruitment scheme and has taken on 44 graduates over the past 5 years, of whom 75% have come from Sheffields 2 universities.
Did you know... 3,000 total staff employed in Sheffield 1.1bn total investment onVelocity village 20 different regeneration projects 600 new trees planted Kelly Huckle: Capita Symonds Business review T Th he e C Ca ap pi it ta a G Gr ro ou up p P Pl lc c 3 39 9 to responsibility Supporting local CR initiatives Capita businesses in Sheffield support a range of local charitable, community and environmental projects.
People from Capita Insurance Services volunteer for weekly one to one reading sessions as part of Business in the Communitys Right to Read campaign, aimed at improving literacy in children from deprived backgrounds.
Working with the South Yorkshire Forest Partnership, we planted 600 new trees in 2008 in a bid to offset local carbon emissions whilst bringing immediate and long term benefits for local people and wildlife.
The Archer Project Capita has also developed a growing partnership with the Archer Project, a charity supporting the local homeless community.
The relationship began in December 2006, when employees from our Coal Health Claims contract collected toiletries for the project, says Phil Roberts below, Shared Services Manager at Capita Insurance Services.
In 2007, we signed up to help with a range of activities that drew on the expertise of our people.
For instance, we coached staff in general business skills, set up a database to streamline their admin, organised the volunteer support process and served breakfast and lunch.
Phil Roberts Tim Renshaw, Operational Manager at The Archer Project, adds: Working with Capita has been a fantastic experience.
They came in and spent time with our employees, analysed what we were doing and came up with a plan for moving the project forward.
Their contribution is something money cant buy they really have helped to make a difference to peoples lives.
The Archer Project laundrette 40 The Capita Group Plc 1.
Generating profitable growth A clear business strategy 2.
Maintaining performance across our divisions We recognise that we have to create the conditions for Diversity, inclusion and human rights a diverse workforce.
This requires a degree of flexibility We believe our success is a direct result of our over working arrangements.
We encourage flexible commitment to maximising the potential of each working arrangements and allow job sharing, term employee.
Diversity and equal opportunities are time working, flexitime and working from home where values we take seriously and seek to apply universally possible.
We believe this approach benefits not just across the Group.
individuals but the Group as a whole.
Our HR policies cover all forms of discrimination We offer employee share ownership enabling and are designed to comply with or exceed the our people to benefit from the companys success.
employment procedures in the countries in which In 2008, 23% of the Groups eligible employees had we operate.
They meet UK, European and Indian share options or owned Capita shares.
employment law as well as international human Succession planning is a key element of our MOB rights legislation, including International Labour process.
It ensures that we have the appropriate Organisation standards.
resources in place to maintain stable leadership and to Where possible, we employ local people and ensure guarantee service continuity for clients.
It is continually that our workforce reflects the composition of the reviewed by the Board.
During 2008, we continued to progress our Diversity Managing and inspiring people Action Plan, introduced in 2007.
As part of this, our We understand the importance of valuing our diversity champions held diversity forums to share employees so that they, in turn are motivated and promote best practice among our employees and and inspired to give their best.
We achieve this in discuss any concerns they have.
We also engaged with 3 ways: trade unions and worked with a number of external partners such as the Employers Forum on Disability.
embedded HR and management procedures recognising success Developing and supporting culture and engagement.
our employees In 2008 we continued the development of Capita We invest in our staff, training them in the skills desktop, an integrated online HR administration they need to deliver quality services for our clients.
system for managers and employees.
We introduced We define the skills and behaviour we need from our e-payslips, significantly reducing the need for paper people to help us to continue to succeed and to meet payslips and piloted annual leave request systems.
We have an internal training This has led to greater compliance with our HR programme, delivered mostly by our own training practices and employment legislation across business.
We ensure our employees have the right skills to deliver quality service through 3 main types of training: specific job-related skills personal development professional qualifications.
We provide training through the most appropriate channel and where possible we have continued to adapt our training so that it can be delivered online.
Both the e-induction programme for new starters and the managers guide programme can now be accessed via our intranet.
