Generating profitable growth A clear business strategy 2.
Maintaining performance across our divisions 4.
Targeting growth markets A leading position in the growing BPO market We lead the UK market in business process outsourcing BPO the long term contracting out of business processes to help lower costs and improve service delivery.
We focus on the UK and Ireland, where there are significant opportunities for growth.
Total UK BPO market p. a Today Private 3.9bn 69% Public 1.7bn 31% 5.6bn Potential Private 62.8bn 66.7% Public 31.4bn 33.3% 94.2bn Ovum 2008 Capita market split by revenue % of turnover 2008 2007 1.
Health 2 1 2007: 52% Business review The Capita Group Plc 47 A growing market Continued growth Independent analysts have estimated that the total With strong demand for outsourcing continuing across 2008 market for BPO in the UK was 5.6bn, against our markets, we will remain focused on selecting market potential of 94.2bn a year.
The benefits of opportunities where we believe we can clearly meet outsourcing are now firmly acknowledged, and the clients expectations, maintain controlled growth and market is forecast to grow at 9% a year until 2012. achieve a reasonable return for the Group.
We are ranked as the BPO market leader in the UK In 2008, our strongest markets remained life with 25.5% market share.
and pensions and local government.
Both markets continue to offer a steady flow of opportunities.
Central government, a market which has been less Strong competitive differentiation active in recent times, is beginning to offer some interesting opportunities, including 2 of our major Our scale, flexible infrastructure and expertise allow TM contract wins in 2008: the Gas Safe Register scheme us to offer compelling service solutions across each of for the Health and Safety Executive and NHS Choices, our chosen markets.
Our clients benefit from reduced the NHS online presence.
Looking ahead, we believe costs, improved business processes and better services greater demands on public spending will bring a to offer their own customers.
Our reputation for greater requirement to deliver high quality public innovative business transformation and consistent services at reduced cost and we are well placed to service delivery enables us to compete strongly in our help achieve this.
The long term contracts we secure, and our high contract renewal rate, evidence our clients While constantly expanding our offering in our satisfaction and in turn help us secure further business.
chosen 9 markets, we also proactively identify and target new market segments where we feel we can In our chosen markets we tend to bid against differing add value.
We are interested in developing further groups of fairly stable competitors.
Increasingly, clients opportunities in the health market following our are seeking outsourcing partners with the scale, recent success in winning the contract to deliver expertise and financial stability to deliver a complex NHS Choices.
This contract gives us wide insight range of services under long term contracts.
Capita has into health issues and policy, and engagement at a the breadth of service offering, expertise and resource central government and health trust level.
Defence to meet these needs.
Many of our competitors are is an area of government where we have previously focused on a single service offering and so may have to been fairly inactive but now see opportunities to bid in consortium for more complex contracts.
provide back office administration services.
Our focus on the UK and Ireland has allowed us to In the current economic climate, an increasing number develop a detailed understanding of our chosen of private sector organisations are expected to review markets and the key drivers for outsourcing in each their business models more rigorously and identify sector.
This market knowledge, alongside our scale areas where outsourcing could reduce financial risk, and our core skills in change management, ICT and lower costs and offer protection against economic business process transformation, gives us competitive volatility.
With our scale, expertise and financial advantage.
stability, we believe we are well placed to help these potential clients create more flexible, lower cost 9 diverse and growing markets operating models while improving service quality.
As well as being the UKs leading provider of BPO, business transformation and professional support services, we are number one in most of our sector Competitor rankings UK BPO market markets.
We currently operate in 9 distinct markets % market share where the drivers for outsourcing are strong: 2008 2007 private sector: life and pensions, insurance, financial Capita 25.5 22 services and other corporates Accenture 6.8 6.0 public sector: local government, central government, Xchanging 6.4 5.1 education, transport and health.
EDS 5.5 6.0 All our markets have maintained a good flow of Vertex 4.4 7.0 outsourcing opportunities across both public and private sectors.
Ovum 2008 48 The Capita Group Plc 1.
Maintaining performance across our divisions Private sector Capita is well established in the private sector, which accounts for 52% of our turnover.
Our 3 main private sector markets are life and pensions, insurance, and financial services.
We also support a growing number of other corporate organisations, particularly media, retail and telecommunications companies.
Insurance Capita is the leader in this market.
Our scale, focus Capita works with its clients as a strategic partner, on customer service and investment in specialist helping them rise to the insurance industrys technology make us a compelling choice as an challenging operating and economic environment.
We establish strategic partnerships with clients to We raise service levels, reduce costs and help bring introduce low-risk service improvement, business products to market faster and more cheaply for our transformation and revenue enhancement, and clients.
This is an attractive proposition for product establish effective processes to satisfy complex manufacturers, distributors and specialist providers.
We also help market entrants to build The life and pensions outsourcing market continues to their infrastructure and operational delivery.
develop and offer strong new contract opportunities: Conditions for the insurance industry remain tough.
we are also beginning to see early contracts delivered Although the full impact of turmoil in the financial by other providers being re-tendered.
Our scale markets is still unclear, it is likely to exacerbate economies and deep experience have enabled us pressures and drive further industry change.
to win the majority of these opportunities.
Given its cost and flexibility benefits, outsourcing : may well begin to play a larger role in this market.
Structural changes in the market due to the : worldwide credit crunch, notably in the Structural change as organisations strive to bancassurance sector: many firms are reassessing compete more effectively and manage the impact their current operating models of the financial market turmoil: increasingly, they Need to increase effectiveness of operations and look to outsourcing to deliver end-to-end and cut operating costs specialised insurance solutions as well as to Response to increasing regulation, notably the manage non-core services and operations FSAs Treating Customers Fairly Pressure to cut operating costs, improve efficiency Pressure to improve customer service and find and enhance customer service innovative ways of retaining customers Increased regulatory requirements Reducing clients exposure to the risks associated Dramatic shifts in consumer expectations, pricing with administering closed books of business and service delivery due to the rapid growth of Importance of bringing new products to internet sales and industry consolidation market faster Importance of bringing new products to Need for a platform that allows more effective market faster distribution to Independent Financial Advisers.
Need to improve management of claims costs, in particular through fraud and leakage prevention Customer demand for more transparency, information, flexibility and value.
7% annual growth across this sector to 2012 9% annual growth to 2012 estimated by industry analysts estimated by industry analysts Ovum 2008 Business review The Capita Group Plc 49 3.
Other corporates Capita is a strong, stable service partner for clients Capita helps increase our clients competitiveness facing fierce competition and growing regulation.
by enhancing their customer services and reducing costs through higher productivity and streamlined Current market conditions have forced many processes.
This adds real value to their business potential clients to look more closely at counterparty models.
In most of our financial markets, we are unique in being the only scale provider that is not also a financial In the current economic climate companies must institution, bank or insurer.
Growing pressure on focus more than ever on reducing operating costs financial institutions as they compete in an unstable without compromising customer service.
There is market has led to increased interest in our service increasing recognition that outsourcing both back offerings.
office and frontline services can play a key role in achieving this.
Organisations are reassessing their operating models to stay competitive while focusing on quality : customer service and bringing new products to Need to reduce processing and administration costs market faster and more efficiently.
Our uniquely while improving customer service and retention broad range of services enables us to offer them a Increasing pressure to reduce headcount while single view of their customers across their whole maintaining productivity and improving service product range.
levels : Pressure on investment and research budgets, Unsustainable cost bases despite undiminished requirement for development Stricter regulatory environment: increasingly, real to maintain competitiveness scale is required to offset the costs of compliance Importance of bringing new products to market Constant legislative change acting as a catalyst faster for new products Need for better access to expert operational and Need for leading edge systems to cope with volatile advisory capabilities markets: where fair value pricing has to be applied, Desire to improve productivity through better for example, scale is required to fund the necessary management of sickness and absenteeism investment in systems Increased regulatory and legislative requirements.
Need to balance efficiency with quality customer service.
8% annual growth to 2012 12% annual growth to 2012 estimated by industry analysts estimated by industry analysts Ovum 2008 50 The Capita Group Plc 1.
Maintaining performance across our divisions Public sector Capita was formed in the public sector: our first clients were local authorities.
Today, the public sector accounts for 48% of our turnover.
We provide outsourcing and support services to both local and central government and have built particular expertise in education, transport and health.
Central government Capita forges strong partnerships with clients in Capita works with Government departments to local government, where transformation of public help them improve the quality, efficiency, capacity services for the benefit of citizens and communities and co-ordination of frontline public services and remains a top priority.
Working with local government over the past 25 The Governments 2007 Comprehensive Spending years we have built up expertise across the spectrum Review is in its first year and an election has to be of services typically delivered by local authorities.
While the flow of new service As authorities seek alternative ways of providing initiatives and projects is expected to decrease, a good services, we are working with them to set new number of large, legislatively backed projects will still standards in delivering services to their citizens.
There is also a steady flow of second generation outsourcing contracts that must : be put out to re-tender under EU competition law.
Increased pressure to deliver efficiencies and value : for money in the economic downturn The challenging goals of the 2007 Comprehensive The challenging goals of the 2007 Comprehensive Spending Review, including 3% annual efficiency Spending Review, including 3% annual efficiency targets and establishing shared services targets and establishing shared services Increased pressure on Whitehall to deliver Requirement to respond to socio-economic and efficiencies and value for money and as a result of demographic issues such as ageing communities the Governments 2008 Pre-Budget Report in areas with lower revenue collection HM Treasurys Operational Efficiency Programme, Local Government White Paper requirements to reporting in Spring 2009 and expected to put transform services and provide more flexibility additional direction and momentum behind the and choice to local communities Governments efficiency agenda Gershon Efficiency Review Possible need to prioritise new, short term Lyons Review investment in infrastructure projects to help alleviate growing unemployment Local Government Financial Settlement the toughest for more than a decade increasing Continuing requirement to build and modernise pressure on local authorities to find new ways public infrastructure e. g. transport, Building of delivering services Schools for the Future Increased pressure to report progress against Key service priorities: childrens services, regulatory targets more transparently.
compliance, public safety, economic regeneration and transport Need for government and public services to enhance UKs global competitiveness.
8% annual growth to 2012 3% annual growth to 2012 estimated by industry analysts estimated by industry analysts Ovum 2008 Business review The Capita Group Plc 51 7.
Transport Capita combines first class professional support Through its property consultancy business, services and innovative products with education Capita Symonds, Capita is one of the UKs leading expertise to help clients deliver against challenging transport and infrastructure consultancies agendas.
We also offer strategic management providing services to clients across both public capacity to support local authorities and the and private sectors.
Department for Children, Schools and Families We offer a wide range of services such as highway DCSF.
and tunnel infrastructure design and refurbishment, The Government has committed further funds to road user pricing, intelligent transport systems, raise achievement and offer personalised learning rail engineering and project management, and through a variety of initiatives aimed at delivering transport planning.
Education is evolving The Government plans to inject an extra 1bn in rapidly, driven by initiatives such as the National major transport projects in 2009.
This investment, Challenge programme, the continued development intended to help stimulate the economy, will be of Specialist Schools and Academies, Building Schools spent on road and rail schemes.
It supplements the for the Future, the transformation of Early Years overall 10bn for 2009 to 2014 pledged in 2007 to guidance and support, and a drive to increase increase rail capacity.
Other major long term rail participation in post-16 education through wholesale projects include Londons Crossrail, the 5.5bn change to 14-19 learning for all.
Education spending Thameslink programme and an additional 600m is rising by an average of 2.8% a year in real terms to tackle congestion.
and by 2011 will have risen to 5.6% of GDP.
: : Increasing pressure on local government budgets Legislative changes causing local authorities to and focus on delivering projects efficiently redefine their roles and pushing schools and Government bringing forward large infrastructure colleges to take on new responsibilities and find projects to create and support employment, different ways of working counter the economic downturn and foster Increased pressure to meet efficiency targets and economic and social regeneration achieve value for money to underpin education Continued focus on reducing urban congestion excellence Requirement to reduce transports long term Need to develop and deliver the wider Childrens impact on climate change and improve the Services Agenda industrys environmental performance Leitch Review of Skills and need to reconfigure Increased focus on national infrastructure by further education and training agencies delivering national security and resilience strategies Building Schools for the Future programme Institutions looking for help in defining Need to reduce bureaucracy, enhance assessment, strategies to manage better their distressed improve financial management and improve property debt books.
5% annual growth to 2012 3% annual growth to 2012 estimated by industry analysts estimated by industry analysts Ovum 2008 52 The Capita Group Plc 1.
Maintaining performance across our divisions 9.
Health Capita is helping to deliver the transformation of the health sector demanded by Government and public alike.
Achieving this change requires more engagement with the private sector to secure the knowledge, culture and investment needed for success.
The value of our experience and capacity in key non-clinical services is increasingly recognised by health service providers.
NHS funding has increased significantly in recent years, but this looks set to plateau.
Significant financial pressure is now expected from Government over the next 3 years.
Structural changes in the way the NHS is funded, following the introduction of Foundation Trusts and Payment by Results, are resulting in a much more commercial approach.
: Need to transform both support and front office services to enhance clinical delivery, drive efficiency and improve the patient experience Patient Choice, requiring streamlined clinical administration to meet the 18-week target from first appointment to treatment Need to rationalise and modernise support services Need to realise the benefits of investment in new technology Pressure to improve work environment and patient care by rationalising existing property and reinvesting in new property Funding pressures and 2007 Spending Review Need to enhance governance and member services capability.
20% annual growth to 2012 estimated by industry analysts Ovum 2008 Business review The Capita Group Plc 53 Case study: Service Birmingham Robust ICT enables public service transformation Introduction of solid ICT framework provides foundation for Councils wider transformational agenda.
Service Birmingham is our joint venture with Weve created a centralised, state of the art In 2008 Service Birmingham was officially Birmingham City Council, Europes largest local server environment thats far more reliable than recognised as a world-class ICT company authority, established in April 2006 to provide its predecessor and easier to back up, support when we attained ISO 20000 accreditation, the Councils information and communications and manage.
Weve introduced a world-class becoming 1 of only 3 local authorities to achieve technology ICT services.
Substantial network provider, so the network is now more this accolade.
In addition to this international investment and innovation have created an secure, more stable and capable of further endorsement, our Customer Competency all-new platform that underpins the Councils expansion whenever necessary.
Weve also Centre has also been certified by SAP.
created a Technical Design Unit TDU to Stephen Hughes, Chief Executive of develop new IT frameworks and provide To date weve invested 48.4m in a Birmingham City Council adds This solid ICT strategic vision for future projects.
combination of staff training, network framework provides the essential foundation upgrades, server replacements, hardware and TheTDU develops our technology roadmap for the Councils wider transformational software and we continue to drive efficiency and ensures that any new applications and agenda.
We aim to implement a step change through innovation.
infrastructure are future proofed in the in the way we deliver services to the citizens technology marketplace, explains Danny of Birmingham, and effective and stable ICT Reeves left, ICT & Operations Director, Service is key to achieving our goals.
A good example of this is our use Danny Reeves of IBM P series server infrastructure which employs technologies that reduce space requirement, reduce power consumption and support fully virtualised environments.
Some of the investments weve made are already realising savings for the Council, he continues.
The improved communications infrastructure has saved 350,000 each year and network management costs have fallen by 40% a year.
Were also exceeding our target of 99.9% network availability.
