Business review The Capita Group Plc 55 5.1 Alignment with Group strategy 5.3 A flexible divisional operating structure We maintain a simple, pragmatic divisional structure that delivers our Group strategy.
We have created a pragmatic, flexible structure which is regularly refreshed as the Group develops.
We move The operating divisions and the businesses within them businesses, contracts and managers across the are aligned with the Groups overall objectives and divisions to ensure the best match of leadership and strategy.
They all follow the Group strategy of securing resources as the Group grows.
The businesses benefit strong, sustainable growth, both organically and by from the powerful combination of individual focus and acquiring complementary businesses.
the ability to reach out across the Group to share Each business produces its own annual business plan operational skills and resources, benefit from outlining specific strategies and considerations and economies of scale, create and deploy innovation, and setting performance targets for the following year.
harness the best of ICT and business processes.
The MOB review process ensures regular monitoring We are currently organised into 5 operating divisions, and reporting of performance against targets and is an plus a Group Sales & Marketing Division.
Each effective forum for planning ahead, solving issues and operating division brings together activities with sharing expertise and support.
See page 27. similar operating models or client bases.
Each major The divisional structure supports a robust, individual contract secured by the Group sales team is managed focus for each business while providing ready access to within the division which best meets its operational, the Groups wider resources, expertise and economies regulatory and management requirements.
greater transparency we report financial progress for 8 business segments, splitting 3 of the 5 operating 5.2 An individual business focus divisions Insurance & Investor Sevices, Integrated With an objective of achieving continuous growth, Sevices and ICT, Property & Partnerships each into each business undertakes appropriate strategies to 2 segments.
achieve or maintain market leading positions.
Research Group-wide support services, such as finance, legal and development initiatives underpin the constant and commercial, property management, procurement, development of products and services to meet the health and safety and environment and HR, report current and future needs of clients.
Businesses adopt directly to Board Executive Directors to ensure robust the most appropriate marketing and sales activities to control, consistent standards and shared benefits address the characteristics of their individual across the Group.
Each business also maintains strict disciplines on cost control.
INTEGRATED SERVICES ICT, PROPERTY & PARTNERSHIPS Integrated HR Services IT Services Specialist Services ComputerLand BBC contracts  Partnerships Criminal Records Bureau Health Services TfL Congestion Charging Offshore: India Gas Registration & Ancillary Services Capita Symonds Central Government Services Administration Services Business Travel & Conferences 56 The Capita Group Plc 1.
Generating profitable growth A clear business strategy 2.
Maintaining performance across our divisions Insurance & Investor Services Comprises our shareholder, financial and trust administration, treasury services businesses, specialist services and our insurance services businesses.
These businesses focus on providing efficient, quality advisory, administration and customer services.
Insurance Services Investor Services 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Turnover 246.2 241.5 Turnover 173.9 156.9 Operating profit 31.1 29.1 Operating profit 39.6 37.3 Operating margin 12.6% 12.0% Operating margin 22.8% 23.8% Capex 7.6 2.9 Capex 17.9 3.7 2008 Growth and operational update: 2008 Growth and operational update: Conditions for insurance companies are challenging in the current Across the financial services market there is much commonality economic climate, however these volatile conditions have resulted in of processes and therefore a greater ability to share infrastructure pressure on potential clients to address counterparty risk and drive and expert resource.
The current economic conditions present business transformation.
This has led to an increased interest in our some challenges but also opportunities.
Shareholder Services: For the eighth year in a row, we dominated Marsh: We successfully transferred administration services for Marsh the New Issues Markets on the Stock Exchange and also won 14 from their operations based in Norwich and Pune, India.
The contract new registration clients from other registrars, a record year of is progressing well.
Principle Holdings: We are setting up an IT system and Our Investment and Unit Trust Administration business is administration infrastructure to provide outsourced services for potentially sensitive to economic conditions as fees are linked Principles motor and home insurance and from which to launch and to the value of funds under administration.
During 2008 new sell Sharia compliant insurance or Takaful products direct to mandates were secured and assets under administration consumers in the UK.
System migration and consolidation: Across our insurance Acquisitions: During the year we acquired 3 companies to operations we have consolidated and enhanced our IT complement and expand our fiduciary, treasury and registrars infrastructure, increasing efficiency and reducing costs.
These small acquisitions, which cover services such as migrated a significant number of roles from London to Gloucester treasury advice to housing associations and NHS membership and Mumbai, and this process will continue in 2009.
This project administration services, add depth and scale to our existing will yield significant cost savings both with regards to headcount businesses and are performing well.
ICT: We have successfully begun a programme of major systems Acquisitions: We have continued our focus on small, bolt on upgrades across our Fund Administration and Shareholder Services acquisitions to expand our service offering and enter new sectors.
to improve operational efficiency, increase quality of service and During the year we acquired or invested in 3 companies covering enhance our ability to transfer work across multiple locations areas including insurance administration, legal services and the including offshore.
provision of supply teacher insurance for schools.
Our largest acquisition, Lancaster Insurance Services, has been successfully 2009 priorities integrated within our business and is performing well.
Explore and be selective regarding the bid opportunities from current and potential clients as they consider outsourcing to 2009 priorities introduce greater cost efficiencies, flexibility and improved Enhance our sales function to meet the higher level of demand service levels in the current economic climate from current and potential clients as they consider outsourcing to Use our scale and reputation for compliant delivery to address introduce greater cost efficiencies and improved service levels in the probable tighter regulation of the markets we serve the current economic climate Continue major systems upgrades and implementations, especially Pursue sensibly priced and quality acquisition opportunities as in Fund Administration and Shareholder Services, to significantly companies look to dispose of non-core assets improve operational efficiency and increase quality of service Use our scale and reputation for compliant delivery to provide Pursue sensibly priced and quality acquisition opportunities as clients with an effective way of addressing the probable tighter companies look to dispose of non-core assets regulation that we expect to see across the market Pursue opportunities following introduction, in 2009, of settlement Work with clients to bring new products to market faster of collectives in Euroclear, building on our position as the only Increase use of our offshore facilities and expertise.
Euroclear compliant registrar which also undertakes fund administration work in the UK.
Business review The Capita Group Plc 57 Life & Pensions Professional Services Comprises all our life & pensions operations Comprises our operations focused on supporting including open and closed book, occupational local government and childrens services including pensions and wealth and distribution services.
education through strategic advice and interim support, outsourced administration services, ICT and software solutions and support.
2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Turnover 462.9 263.6 Turnover 311.2 289.8 Operating profit 55.7 32.9 Operating profit 56.4 47.9 Operating margin 12.0% 12.5% Operating margin 18.1% 16.5% Capex 34.1 23.4 Capex 5.4 5.6 2008 Growth and operational update: 2008 Growth and operational update: We continue to focus on winning new contracts and expanding We continue to deliver robust and innovative solutions and products to our existing client relationships.
The market is highly active and support effective administration and joined up services across local continues to offer strong new contract opportunities.
Life and Pensions Outsourcing: We are the leading L&P outsourcing Software Services Childrens Services: In February 2009, Capita won provider with a resource of 10,000 people across our L&P operations.
a prestigious BETTAward 2009 in the ICT Education Partnership category for its work in developing the SIMS PartnershipXchange We ended 2008 with the successful win of the Abbey Life contract product in collaboration with 3 school partnerships.
SIMS Partnership to administer approximately 1.1 million life and pensions policies with Xchange, developed in response to the Every Child Matters Change for service due to commence in March 2009.
2009 has started well Children programme, allows schools to share standard student with selection as strategic partner by AXA Sun Life.
Including the information across all schools where a student studies.
Such awards proposed AXA contract, which is due to commence in May 2009, underline our continued practical application of innovation.
we will be responsible for administering 26 million policies in total.
Software Services Local Government: Strengthened our position Our corporate pensions business, Capita Hartshead, continues in the revenues and benefits market across the UK with wins in England to perform well, administering 550 schemes with over 3.4 million and Scotland.
Supported the development of shared services across members.
Worked with DWP to develop software to Prudential: We achieved a smooth transition of services from improve speed of benefit payments and reduce potential fraud.
This Prudential including the transfer of 3,000 staff located in the software can be linked withVoice RiskAnalysis VRA to provide a first UK and Mumbai.
Launched Capita Support a web-based application ICT: We have continued to develop our technology platforms across offering end-to-end housing services.
the whole division to reinforce our reputation for providing NationalStrategies: Continuedto buildonour NationalStrategies leading edge service.
contract andfurther strengthenedour relationshipwiththe DCSF.
Offshore: Capita India continues to expand in size and capability Plans are in place inorderto meetthe  2009 and has played a key role in helping to win new life and pensions and maintain high levelof customer satisfactionwith services sofar.
Strategic Childrens Services:We continued to satisfy a high demand Wealth & Distribution Services: We have implemented one of for interim managers for LEAs to help them with achieving improvement the UKs leading independent trading platforms, which has been in schools.
embraced by one of the UKs largest intermediary support services Local Government Services: Progressed well in 2008, successfully business.
In addition a number of life and pension product providers supported our 15 year partnership with Southampton CC assuming have chosen to launch their products on this new platform.
responsibility of procurement services with the aim of achieving substantial savings for the Council over the life of the contract 15m savings have been achieved so far.
2009 priorities Capita Consulting: Rationalised cost base and refocused operations Continue to develop our shared delivery infrastructure to place achieving a greatly improved performance.
Demand remained high for us further at the forefront of this market with unique scale benefits change and transformational consultancy especially across our local and excellent administration and customer service government clients.
Work with our existing clients on new business opportunities and MissionAssurance andTesting: Improved profitability by 20%, explore ways of expanding our portfolio further compared to 2007, despite tightening market conditions.
Focus on the transformation of people, processes and technology to achieve greater efficiency and quality 2009 priorities Achieve a smooth transition of services and people from AXA Maintain market share in local government and education software Use our strengths in customer retention and compliant markets through continued development of new and innovative management expertise to further develop our presence in products to keep pace with changing requirements this market Leverage our expertise and scale gained in our core markets to expand Expand our occupational pensions consultancy activities, aided st into new market segments by the launch of our 1 Annual Consultancy Services Survey Continue to explore opportunities to provide managed services in Continue to develop our independent platform strategy by local government as pressure increases to deliver efficiencies and expanding its product coverage and attracting new distributor value for money and provider firms.
Focus on successful delivery of services as part of the new contract with Sheffield City Council Collaborate across the Group to develop broader solutions for clients, across people, processes and technology, to help them keep pace with legislative and best practice requirements.
Maintaining performance across our divisions Integrated Services Comprises all our major central government contracts, retail sector contact centres and business travel administration businesses, our integrated HR services and HR Solutions: HR administration, resourcing, payroll administration, learning and development and outplacement services.
Integrated Services excluding HR Solutions HR Solutions 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Turnover 387.4 405.0 Turnover 258.2 225.0 Operating profit 56.1 55.8 Operating profit 24.2 21.3 Operating margin 14.5% 13.8% Operating margin 9.4% 9.5% Capex 10.0 19.0 Capex 1.5 1.8 2008 Growth and operational update: 2008 Growth and operational update: We continue to focus on introducing innovation and alternative Another year of progress for the division.
Our payroll services are service delivery models across our operations, including further underpinned by long term contracts and much of our resourcing offshoring, to increase quality and efficiency across contracts.
businesses are focused on essential public and private services or underpinned by managed service contracts.
Interim placements and TV Licensing: Following investment in the delivery of effective recruitment outsourcing remain strong and there has been 15% front office solutions, we reduced transaction handling times by growth in our Learning & Development and RIPA businesses.
31% offering significant operational cost savings to the business.
Resourcing businesses: We focus on campaign solutions, managed We have increased automation of back office systems.
By mid 2009 services, process outsourcing, search and selection, interim we will have deployed handheld units across our entire field based management and agencies operating in niche markets for Social enforcement and sales teams.
Care, Education, Finance and HR.
The businesses have generally TfL Congestion Charging: Following the successful introduction of performed well, especially in the Interim Management and Managed the Western Extension Zone WEZ, the business has enjoyed Service Recruitment Outsource businesses, and the sales pipeline exceptional operational performance which has allowed further for 2009 is healthy.
efficiencies in staffing and IT costs.
The Low Emission Zone LEZ We successfully won a new managed service contract with DWP, was successfully implemented on 4 February 2008.
The contract is and a recruitment process outsourcing RPO contract with Essex due to transition to IBM at the end of November 2009.
County Council - both are framework agreements under which other client partners are expected to join.
We further developed our CRB: The partnership is in its sixth year with Disclosure applications at approximately 3.8m per annum.
We continued to enhance the relationships with our managed services clients such as BAA, BNFL and NATS.
Veredus, our senior search and selection and executive online tracking service and the electronic application functionality.
interims business, had a strong year across both public and private Constructionline: Following a successful re-tender, we secured the sectors.
contract to manage and administer the UK register of local and Payroll outsourcing business: Major transformation projects have national pre-qualified construction and construction related been completed at Southampton and Swindon councils and this suppliers, which is operated on behalf of BERR, for a further 4 years business continues to perform well.
with an option to extend for an additional 2 years.
Assessment and testing: Developed further long term contracts, Call Centre and Specialist Services: Capita signed an additional supporting clients such as The Scottish Executive and BAA to whom contract in 2008 to deliver directory enquiry services on behalf of we also provide recruitment managed services.
Learning & development businesses: Our UK Learning & Capita Business travel: Operational improvements have continued Development practice secured a number of new managed service following a move to a new operational site in Derby.
The sales pipeline contracts in 2008, including ContactPoint, DCSF and Dorset Council.
within the business remains healthy.
The conferencing business RIPA, specialising in providing learning events for international continued its successful growth.
delegates in the field of public administration and judicial reform, enjoyed a record year in terms of delegates and performance.
Learner Support Programme: Capita signed the Interim Services Agreement with the Learning and Skills Council LSC to deliver the Educational Maintenance Allowance EMA, Adult Learning Grant 2009 priorities ALG plus a number of other means tested educational grants in Continue to seek synergies across businesses and focus partnerships November 2008.
We are finalising the details of a longer term to secure long term relationships.
Extend the reach of Framework contract with the LSC to deliver these services to over 500,000 Agreements secured in 2008.
To date Southend Borough Council students and learners for the next 4 academic years.
and Treasury Solicitors have joined the Essex and DWP frameworks respectively Develop additional products and services to penetrate new and 2009 priorities existing clients, and make further acquisitions to develop or Focus on employee retention and training to maintain consistency consolidate our position and quality of service for our long term partnerships Continue to draw on our breadth of expertise and capability to Continue to focus on seeking service enhancements to maintain offer HR solutions to both the public and private sector high standards of service delivery Achieve and build on a smooth transfer of HR administration and Successful implementation of the Health and Safety Executive HSE payroll services at Sheffield City Council contract.
The HSE installer site went live in January 2009 allowing Promote our offshore capability where appropriate for clients.
TM installers to register with the new Gas Safe Register scheme.
The consumer facing website is due to go live in April 2009 Continue to leverage benefits across our businesses from shared technology platforms including CRM systems, operational scanning workflow and telephony systems and to share the operational expertise across the division gained from these operational improvements.
Business review The Capita Group Plc 59 ICT, Property & Partnerships Comprises our ICT business, which supports the Groups operations and external clients, strategic local government partnerships, health business, offshore operations and our property consultancy, Capita Symonds.
ICT & Partnerships Property consultancy: Capita Symonds 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Turnover 339.4 259.5 Turnover 262.2 231.9 Operating profit 35.0 27.7 Operating profit 22.8 19.3 Operating margin 10.3% 10.7% Operating margin 8.7% 8.3% Capex 12.2 8.8 Capex 2.2 2.7 2008 Growth and operational update: 2008 Growth and operational update: We continue to grow this division through major contract wins Comprises our property services consultancy, Capita Symonds and a sustained sales focus alongside niche acquisitions to extend which is one of the UKs largest and most diverse multidisciplinary our capabilities.
consultancies operating in the building design, civil engineering, environment, management and transport sectors.
IT Services:This business continues to support a wide and increasing range of external customers, as well as internal contracts and businesses.
Throughout 2008 we have focused on increasing margins through During the year we completed 2 significant acquisitions ComputerLand changing the mix of our business and accelerating the growth of and ABSNet which have significantly added to and strengthened our our expert niche areas of operation.
capabilities in the desktop and networking markets and we further enhanced our hosting capability by commencing work to significantly New business: We have focused our efforts on sustainable sectors increase the capacity of our primary and secondary data centres.
and were successful in winning framework and major project commissions in Rail, Education, Highways design and Airport design.
Local Government Strategic Partnerships: We have continued to We continued to increase our share of Olympic commissions and deliver improved services, quality regeneration projects, savings are now working for LOCOG, ODA and LDA at a strategic level.
generated through ICT and process efficiencies and improved purchasing initiatives across our partnerships.
Our new partnerships Partnerships: We successfully created new property partnerships which started in 2007 with Southampton and Swindon Councils are with Sefton MBC and Glamorgan Consultancy.
We are providing key progressing well following smooth transfers of people and services.
services as part of the Groups contracts with local authorities in Southampton, Swindon and Sheffield.
Over the year we have Service Birmingham: We continue to drive efficiency through innovation as part of our joint venture with Birmingham City Council.
reinforced our position as the leading property provider to local In 2008, we were awarded a contract worth 110m over 8 years to government.
manage their contact centre, supporting the Council's Customer Acquisitions: We continued to expand our capability and reach First transformation programme.
through acquisitions Lovejoy, Pearce Buckle and NRM Bobrowski.
Swindon: Delivered integrated Customer Services One Stop Shop These have all been integrated well into our business and operate and Call Centre with significant improvements in customer service within extremely resilient markets.
They have all outperformed and public perception.
ICTTransformation substantially completed our expectations.
with the implementation of new infrastructure and hardware.
Southampton: The partnership has created a new Gateway and 2009 priorities Customer Services Centre as part of the commitment to enhance Explore opportunities for winning and establishing further local the customer experience of Council services.
government partnerships as pressure is applied to local government Health services: We successfully won the contract to deliver budgets and there is an increased focus on cost efficiencies NHS Choices, the NHS online presence, and have started work on implementing the digital and content requirements.
This win provides Build upon our design framework wins for CrossRail and focus on a platform for further growth in the health marketplace.
increasing our profile and role in essential infrastructure projects Offshore services Capita India: Our offshore operation continues Continue to acquire small to medium sized businesses in resilient to play a significant role in helping to secure major new business.
sectors where they will add value to our consultancy Following the transfer of 1,700 employees from Prudentials Indian Focus on increasing our capability in critical infrastructure operation to Capita in October 2008, we now have 3 sites in Mumbai programme management and have established a new site in Pune.
Following the transfer of Reduce exposure to activities in areas more sensitive to the employees with the AXA deal, we will have approximately 3,600 economy, such as corporate fit out, by continuing to transfer people in India.
employees and reduce headcount Focus on assisting clients to dramatically reduce carbon emissions 2009 priorities on all work across the UK.
Aim to have 70% of all new projects at With our pool of highly skilled IT staff, we continue to focus on zero carbon status by 2012.
Focus on delivering carbon positive developing our end to end IT service offerings and on successfully solutions by 2015. integrating our acquisitions, ensuring that our enhanced capabilities are deployed for the benefit of our clients and the Group Continue to focus on achieving service improvement through service transformation and applying practical innovations across our strategic local government partnerships Continue to grow our offshore operations in India by the end of 2009 we expect to have over 4,500 staff in India.
Establish a new facility in Bangalore to support the new AXA contract and continue to smoothly transition work from new clients and the Group to India.
60 The Capita Group Plc Case study: The Childrens Mutual Delivering efficient end-to-end services We are on track to administer 1 million ChildTrust Fund accounts 50% faster with 30% savings.
Compliance Customer service Processing Finance In preparation for the launch of the new At the same time, we also took over the Government Child Trust Fund initiative, administration of The Childrens Mutuals The Childrens Mutual appointed Capita to existing portfolio of policies.
The clients existing develop a system to administer the new services were transferred from Tunbridge Wells funds, from customer application right to our Barnwood site within 12 months.
involved end-to-end business transformation and service provision to support a portfolio of We took responsibility for setting up a 500,000 existing insurance plans.
Since then, new joint service infrastructure that could service levels have been enhanced dramatically.
efficiently process charge-capped products, Costs are down by 30% and clerical such as the new Child Trust Funds, explains productivity is 50% higher than in a traditional Nigel Purveur left, Managing Director of life and pensions processing area.
Over 85% of Capita Life & Pensions Services South West applications are now processed without any Operations.
Within just 10 months, we manual intervention.
developed a completely new policy administration system ready for the launch The partnership was boosted in November of the new funds.
The Childrens Mutual 2007, when Asda chose Capita and The Nigel Purveur developed the product while we provided Childrens Mutual to provide its Child Trust the administration and IT expertise to create Fund.
The transfer of services, including new a unique end-to-end service including business, contact centre and back-office customer service, IT, finance, HR, actuarial administration was seamless and took just and compliance.
Capita is now on track to administer 1 million Child Trust Fund accounts on behalf of The Childrens Mutual in 2009.
David White, Chief Executive of The Childrens Mutual, confirms the partnerships value: Capitas ability to provide advanced administration and customer contact services to its wide range of clients and its commitment to extending these service models to our valued customers continues to impress us.
Governance The Capita Group Plc 61 Governance 62 Board members 64 Corporate governance 71 Directors remuneration report Accounts 78 Consolidated income statement 82 Notes to the consolidated 119 Company balance sheet financial statements 79 Consolidated statement of recognised 120 Notes to the accounts income and expense 116 Statement of Directors responsibilities 131 Principal Group investments 80 Consolidated balance sheet 117 Independent auditors report to the 132 Independent auditors report to the members ofThe Capita Group Plc 81 Consolidated cash flow statement members ofThe Capita Group Plc 118 Five year summary 133 Useful information for shareholders
