212016 RIT R&A pp88-pp93 29 5 08 19:32 Page 90 RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 90 Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of RIT Capital Partners plc will be held at The Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, London, SW1Y 5HS on Thursday 17 July 2008 at 10.00 a. m. Gentlemen attending are requested to wear a jacket and tie in order to comply with the rules of The Royal Automobile Club.
The meeting will be held for the following purposes: Ordinary Business As ordinary business, to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, each of which is proposed as an ordinary resolution: 1.
To approve the Directors Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2008: 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2008: 3.
To declare a final dividend of 4.0p per ordinary share: 4.
To re-elect Charles Bailey as a Director: 5.
To re-elect Mikael Breuer-Weil as a Director: 6.
To re-elect John Cornish as a Director: 7.
To re-elect Andrew Knight as a Director: 8.
To re-elect James Leigh-Pemberton as a Director: 9.
To re-elect Michael Marks as a Director: 10.
To re-elect Nathaniel Rothschild as a Director: 11.
To re-elect Michael Sofaer as a Director: and 12.
To reappoint  LLP as auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, which will be proposed as Special Resolutions: 13.
THAT the authority conferred upon the Directors by Article 11 A of the Companys Articles of Association authority to allot, and to make offers or agreements to allot, relevant securities be hereby extended for the period ending on whichever is the earlier of the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2009 and 30 September 2009: AND THAT such authority shall for that period relate to relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 51,607,526.
THAT the power conferred upon the Directors by Article 11 B of the Companys Articles of Association power to allot, or make offers or agreements to allot, equity securities as if Section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply to such allotment be hereby renewed for the period ending on whichever is the earlier of the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2009 and 30 September 2009.
THAT the Company be authorised to purchase up to an aggregate of 23,207,905 ordinary shares of 1 each of the Company or such a number of ordinary shares as represents 14.99% of the Companys issued capital at the date of the Meeting, whichever is less at a price exclusive of expenses which is: a not less than 1 per share: b not more than 5% above the arithmetical average of the middle-market quotations as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days preceding any such purchase: AND THAT the authority conferred by this Resolution shall expire on 30 September 2009 except in relation to the purchase of shares the contract for which was concluded before such date and which might be executed wholly or partly after such date.
THAT the Articles of Association produced to the meeting, and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification, be adopted as the new Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association and that the Directors be authorised to do all such acts and things as they consider necessary or desirable to give effect to this.
THAT the renewal with effect from 9 September 2006 of the J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited Share Appreciation Rights Plan the Plan referred to in the Explanatory Notes to the Notice of this Meeting, the rules of which are produced to this Meeting incorporating certain draft amendments and for the purposes of identification initialled by the Chairman, and all grants made prior to the date of this resolution, be approved, and the Directors be authorised to adopt the amendments, subject to such modifications as they may consider necessary to take account of the requirements of the Financial Services Authority and best practice and to do all acts and things necessary to operate the Plan.
By order of the Board J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited Secretary Registered office: 27 St Jamess Place London SW1A 1NR 29 May 2008 Inspection of documents Copies of the following documents may be inspected during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the registered office of the Company at 27 St Jamess Place, London SW1A 1NR up to and including the date of the AGM and at the Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS from 15 minutes before the AGM until it ends: the proposed new articles of association of the Company, and a copy of the existing memorandum and articles of association marked to show the changes being proposed in resolution 16: and the draft amended Rules of the Share Appreciation Rights Scheme being proposed in resolution 17.
212016 RIT R&A pp88-pp93 29 5 08 19:32 Page 92 RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 92 Notes 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed.
The appointment of a proxy will not prevent a member from subsequently attending and voting at the meeting in person.
To be effective the instrument appointing a proxy must either be a sent to the Companys registrars Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY, b lodged using the CREST Proxy Voting Service explained in Note 5 below, or c lodged electronically through the Companys website www.
All proxies, however lodged, must be received not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the meeting or adjourned meeting for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
Please note that any power of attorney or other authority under which the instrument is executed or a duly certified copy of any such power or authority, must accompany the physical instrument appointing a proxy, as these documents cannot be lodged electronically.
Entitlement to attend and vote at the meeting, and the number of votes which may be cast thereat, will be determined by reference to the Companys register of members on 15 July 2008 at 6.00 p. m. or, if the meeting is adjourned, no later than 6.00 p. m. on the date two days prior to the date of the adjourned meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting services provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 3RA50 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified in Note 3 above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in the Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the AGM, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as the designated corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the 212016 RIT R&A pp88-pp93 29 5 08 19:32 Page 93 93 meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its designated corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
212016 RIT R&A pp94-pp100-IBC 29 5 08 19:37 Page 94 RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 EXPLANATORY NOTES 94 RESOLUTION 1 REPORT AND ACCOUNTS The Directors of the Company are required by company law to present the accounts, the Directors report and the auditors report on the accounts to the meeting.
RESOLUTION 2 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 require that the Directors Remuneration Report be put to a vote by shareholders.
The Report is set out on pages 32 to 37 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
RESOLUTION 3 DIVIDEND A final dividend can only be paid after the shareholders at a General Meeting have approved it.
A final dividend of 4.0 pence per ordinary share is proposed.
RESOLUTIONS 4 TO 11 RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS All Directors have to stand for re-election at least once every 3 years, but are eligible for re-election.
Directors also adhere to the Boards policy that any Director who has served as such for nine or more years and who is not retiring by rotation, shall nonetheless stand for re-election at each annual general meeting.
John Cornish was appointed as a Director since the last Annual General Meeting and, under the Articles of Association, is required to retire and seek re-election by the shareholders.
The re-election of each of the Directors standing is recommended by the Board, which confirms, following their annual performance review, that each such Directors performance continues to be satisfactory.
RESOLUTION 12 REAPPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION OF THE AUDITORS Company law requires all companies, at each general meeting at which accounts are laid, to appoint auditors who will remain in office until the next general meeting at which accounts are laid.
The Board, having accepted the recommendation of the Audit Committee, propose that  LLP be reappointed as the Companys auditors.
RESOLUTION 13 RENEWAL OF DIRECTORS AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES This resolution which will be proposed as a special resolution and requires the approval of three quarters of the votes cast at the meeting will, if approved, allow the Directors to allot ordinary shares in RIT Capital Partners plc.
This authority will last until the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 30 September 2009.
The maximum amount that can be allotted under this authority is 51,607,526.
RESOLUTION 14 DISAPPLICATION OF PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS This special resolution will renew the Directors authority to allot shares for cash, free from the preemption restrictions set out in the Companies Act 1985.
This authority will expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting in 2009, or on 30 September 2009 if earlier.
The Directors intend to observe the institutional guidelines in respect of allotment of shares for cash.
These presently require that the annual authority should not exceed 5% of the issued share capital and that no more than 7.5% of the issued ordinary share capital should be allotted for cash on a non pre-emptive basis in any rolling three-year period.
212016 RIT R&A pp94-pp100-IBC 29 5 08 19:37 Page 95 95 RESOLUTION 15 PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES This resolution will be proposed as a special resolution and will allow RIT Capital Partners plc to make market purchases of up to 23,207,905 of its own ordinary shares or such a number of ordinary shares as represents 14.99% of the Companys issued capital at the date of the meeting, whichever is less at prices not less than 1 per share and not more than five per cent above the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days preceding such a purchase.
The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 permit companies to hold any of their own shares which they have purchased as Treasury Shares as an alternative to cancelling them.
Accordingly, if the Company were to purchase any of its own shares under the authority conferred by this resolution, the Directors may consider holding them as Treasury Shares or the Directors may cancel the shares.
Such a decision will be made by the Directors at the time of purchase on the basis of the Companys and shareholders best interests.
The Directors currently have no intention of exercising the authority conferred in this resolution and will only purchase shares after taking account of the overall financial position of the Company and whether the effect will be to increase net asset value per share, and if it is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
RESOLUTION 16: ADOPTION OF NEW ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION It is proposed in this resolution to adopt new articles of association the New Articles in order to update the Companys current articles of association the Current Articles primarily to take account of changes in English company law brought about by the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The Act is being implemented in phases, with changes reflected in the New Articles coming into force on or before 1 October 2008.
Accordingly the resolution adopting the New Articles will only become effective on 1 October 2008.
The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are summarised below.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some more minor changes which merely reflect changes made by the Act have not been noted.
The New Articles showing all the changes to the Current Articles are available for inspection, as noted on page 91 of this document.
It is anticipated that at next years Annual General Meeting further changes to the Companys memorandum and articles of association will be proposed.
These changes will be based on the final phase of implementation of the Act, which is currently scheduled for implementation on 1 October 2009.
Summary of principal changes to the Companys Articles of Association 1 Convening general meetings The provisions in the Current Articles dealing with the convening of general meetings and the length of notice required to convene general meetings are being amended in the New Articles to conform to new provisions in the Act.
In particular, annual general meetings of the Companys shareholders must be convened within the six month period following the Companys accounting reference date, and any general meeting other than an annual general meeting can be convened on 14 days notice whereas previously 21 days notice was required where the general meeting was to consider a special resolution.
2 Votes of members Under the Act proxies are entitled to vote on a show of hands whereas under the Current Articles proxies are only entitled to vote on a poll.
Proxies are also entitled to speak at general meetings under the Act.
The time limits for the appointment or termination of a proxy appointment have been altered by the Act so that the articles cannot provide that they should be received more than 48 hours before the meeting or in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after the meeting, more than 24 hours before the time for the taking of a poll, with weekends and bank holidays being permitted to be excluded for this purpose.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share held by the shareholder.
Multiple corporate representatives may be appointed but if they purport to exercise their rights in different ways, then the power is treated as not being exercised.
The New Articles reflect all of these new provisions.
212016 RIT R&A pp94-pp100-IBC 29 5 08 19:37 Page 96 RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 EXPLANATORY NOTES 96 3 Directors interests The Act sets out directors general duties.
The provisions largely codify the existing law, but with some changes.
Under the Act, from 1 October 2008 a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The Act also allows the articles to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The New Articles give the directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide whether to authorise a conflict of potential conflict.
First, only independent directors i. e. those who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the companys success.
The directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
From 1 October 2008, it is also proposed that the New Articles should contain provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at board meetings and availability of board papers to protect a director being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict has previously been authorised by the directors.
4 Electronic and website communications Provisions of the Act which came into force in January 2007 enable companies to communicate with members by electronic form and or by means of a website.
The New Articles continue to allow communications to members in electronic form and, in addition, they also permit the Company to take advantage of the new provisions relating to website communications.
Before the Company can communicate with a member by means of website communication, the relevant member must be asked individually by the Company to agree that the Company may send or supply documents or information to him by means of a website, and the Company must either have received a positive response or have received no response within the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the request was sent.
The Company will notify the member either in writing, or by other permitted means when a relevant document or information is placed on the website and a member can always request a hard copy version of the document or information.
5 Share transfers Under the Act, if directors refuse to register a transfer of shares they must provide the transferee with further information about the refusal, if requested.
The provisions in the Current Articles allowing directors to refuse registration of transfers without giving any reason has therefore been removed in the New Articles.
6 General Generally the opportunity has been taken to reflect changes made by the Act in the New Articles.
RESOLUTION 17: SHARE APPRECIATION RIGHTS SAR The Directors are seeking the approval of shareholders for the renewal of the J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited JRCM Share Appreciation Rights Plan Plan approved by shareholders on 10 July 1996, which has now expired.
If renewed, the Plan will continue until the tenth anniversary of the date on which it expired.
No changes to the principal terms of the Plan, its financial operation or the performance condition are proposed.
The Directors consider that the Plan has been successful in incentivising employees, and should be renewed in order to provide a continuing incentive.
212016 RIT R&A pp94-pp100-IBC 29 5 08 19:37 Page 97 97 A summary of the Plan is set out below: The principal terms of the J Rothschild Capital Management Share Appreciation Rights Plan the Plan are as follows: 1 Outline In outline, the Plan provides for the grant of Share Appreciation Rights SARs over a notional number of shares in the Company.
On the exercise of SARs, the participants have the right to receive a cash payment, which is known as the Share Appreciation Amount and is equal to the market price of the shares on exercise, less the SAR price.
Participants do not have any right to receive shares in the Company.
2 Eligibility Participants in the Plan are selected at the discretion of the JRCM Directors.
The Plan is being amended to allow persons seconded or engaged to work for the Group to be eligible for selection, in addition to employees.
3 SAR Price The SAR price is determined by the JRCM Directors at the time of grant.
It is normally the market price at the close of business on the day before grant.
4 Performance condition The exercise of SARs is subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition, set by the directors at the time of grant.
The JRCM Directors currently intend to continue setting the performance condition which has been used in the past and disclosed in the Remuneration Report.
This requires the increase in the share price over the performance period the period of three years commencing with the date of grant, plus dividends paid, to exceed the increase in the Retail Prices Index over the same period, plus 3 percentage points.
SARs will lapse if this condition is not met.
5 Exercise of SARs SARs become exercisable on the third anniversary of grant, provided the performance condition has been met.
If a participant leaves involuntarily, or resigns, vested SARs may be exercised within 6 months, but unvested SARs lapse unless the JRCM Directors decide, in their discretion, to permit them to be exercised within six months or such other period as may be appropriate.
If a participant leaves in circumstances which involve misconduct, impropriety or serious negligence, the SAR lapses.
If a participant dies, his personal representatives may exercise his SARs within 12 months.
6 Change of control, merger or other reorganisation SARs may generally be exercised early on a takeover, scheme of arrangement, merger or other reorganisation.
The Plan is being amended to provide that, alternatively, participants may be allowed or required to exchange their rights for rights in respect of shares in the acquiring company.
7 Variation in share capital SARs may be adjusted following any variation in the share capital of the Company.
8 Amendments to the Plan The JRCM Directors may amend the Plan as they consider appropriate.
However, the Plan is being amended to provide that shareholder approval will be required to amend certain provisions to the advantage of participants.
These provisions relate to: eligibility: SAR price: adjustment of SARs on variation in the Companys share capital: and the amendment powers.
