Shareholder information Financial calendar Dividends Payment dates: Annual General Meeting 3 April 2009 at 1pm Cumulative preference shares 29 May and 31 December 2009 Edinburgh International Conference Centre, Non-cumulative preference shares 31 March, 30 June, The Exchange, Morrison Street, 30 September and Edinburgh 31 December 2009 Ex-dividend dates: Interim results 7 August 2009 Cumulative preference shares 29 April 2009 Record dates: Cumulative preference shares 1 May 2009 Shareholder enquiries Donating your shares in this way will not give rise to either a gain or a Shareholdings in the company may be checked by visiting our website loss for UK capital gains tax purposes and you may be able to reclaim www.
You will need the shareholder reference UK income tax on gifted shares.
Further information can be obtained number printed on your share certificate or tax voucher to gain access from HM Revenue & Customs.
Warning to shareholders boiler room scams Dividend payments Over the last year, many companies have become aware that their The company pays its dividends in pounds sterling although shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence shareholders may choose to receive payment in US dollars or euros.
These are typically from overseas based Shareholders wishing to receive payment in either US dollars or euros brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often should request an instruction form from the Companys Registrar: turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These Computershare Investor Services PLC brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive, and a 2006 The Pavilions survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has reported that the Bridgwater Road average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
Bristol BS99 6ZZ Telephone: 0870 702 0135 It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many Fax: 0870 703 6009 of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
co. uk Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If Shareholders may also download an instruction form via our website you receive any unsolicited investment advice: www.
Completed instruction forms must be returned to the registrar no later than 15 working days before the Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation: relevant dividend payment date.
Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting Braille and audio Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement involved by visiting www.
uk register: Shareholders requiring a Braille or audio version of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement should contact the Registrar on 0870 Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or 702 0135. visiting www.
uk: and ShareGift If the calls persist, hang up.
The company is aware that shareholders who hold a small number of shares may be retaining these shares because dealing costs make it If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive uneconomical to dispose of them.
ShareGift, the charity share donation payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA scheme is a free service operated by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation can be contacted by completing an online form at registered charity 1052686 to enable shareholders to donate shares to www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the company endorses will be Should you wish to donate your shares to charity in this way you should included in company mailings.
contact ShareGift for further information: More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the ShareGift, The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, FSA website www.
uk 17 Carlton House Terrace, London SW1Y 5AH Tel: 020 7930 3737 www.
org 286 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
