Shareholder information continued Taxation for US Holders The company is not required to withhold UK tax at source from dividend The following discussion summarises certain US federal and UK tax payments it makes or from any amount including any amounts in consequences of the acquisition, ownership and disposition of ordinary respect of accrued dividends distributed by the company.
US Holders shares, non-cumulative dollar preference shares, ADSs representing who are not resident or ordinarily resident in the UK and who do not ordinary shares ordinary ADSs, ADSs representing non-cumulative carry on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch, dollar preference shares preference ADSs or PROs by a beneficial agency or permanent establishment in connection with which their owner that is a citizen or resident of the United States or that otherwise ordinary shares, non-cumulative preference shares, ordinary ADSs or will be subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis in preference ADSs are held, used or acquired will not be subject to UK respect of the ordinary shares, non-cumulative dollar preference shares, tax in respect of any dividends received on the relevant shares or ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs a US Holder.
assumes that a US Holder is holding ordinary shares, non-cumulative dollar preference shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs, as Distributions by the company will constitute foreign source dividend applicable, as capital assets.
This summary does not address the tax income for US federal income tax purposes to the extent paid out of the consequences to a US Holder i that is resident or, in the case of an current or accumulated earnings and profits of the company, as individual, ordinarily resident in the UK for UK tax purposes or ii determined for US federal income tax purposes.
Because the company generally, that is a corporation which alone or together with one or more does not maintain calculations of its earnings and profits under US associated companies, controls, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of federal income tax principles, it is expected that distributions will be the voting stock of the company.
reported to US Holders as dividends.
Payments will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed to corporate US The statements and practices set forth below regarding US and UK tax holders.
laws, including the US UK double taxation convention relating to income and capital gains which entered into force on 31 March 2003 the Subject to applicable limitations that may vary depending upon a Treaty, and the US UK double taxation convention relating to estate and holders individual circumstances, dividends paid to certain nongift taxes the Estate Tax Treaty, are based on those laws and practices corporate US Holders in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2011 as in force and as applied in practice on the date of this report.
This will be taxable at a maximum tax rate of 15%.
Non-corporate US summary is not exhaustive of all possible tax considerations and Holders should consult their own tax advisers to determine whether they holders are advised to satisfy themselves as to the overall tax are subject to any special rules that limit their ability to be taxed at this consequences, including specifically the consequences under US favourable rate.
federal, state, local and other laws, and possible changes in taxation law, of the acquisition, ownership and disposition of ordinary shares, Dividends will be included in a US Holders income on the date of the non-cumulative dollar preference shares, ordinary ADSs, preference US Holders or in the case of ADSs, the Depositarys receipt of the ADSs or PROs by consulting their own tax advisers.
The amount of any dividend income paid in pounds sterling or euros will be a US dollar amount calculated by reference to the relevant The following discussion assumes that the company is not, and will not exchange rate in effect on the date of such receipt regardless of become, a passive foreign investment company PFIC see Passive whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars.
If the dividend Foreign Investment Company Considerations on page 295. is converted into US dollars on the date of receipt, the US Holder generally should not be required to recognise foreign currency gain or Ordinary shares, preference shares, ordinary ADSs and loss in respect of the dividend income.
If the amount of such dividend preference ADSs is not converted into US dollars on the date of receipt, the US Holder Taxation of dividends may have foreign currency gain or loss.
For the purposes of the Treaty, the Estate Tax Treaty and the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended the Code, US Holders of Taxation of capital gains ordinary ADSs and preference ADSs should be treated as owners of A US Holder that is not resident or, in the case of an individual, the ordinary shares and the non-cumulative dollar preference shares ordinarily resident in the UK will not normally be liable for UK tax on underlying such ADSs.
capital gains realised on the disposition of an ordinary share, a noncumulative dollar preference share, an ordinary ADS or a preference The US Treasury has expressed concerns that parties to whom ADS unless at the time of the disposal, in the case of a corporate US depositary receipts are released before shares are delivered to the Holder, such US Holder carries on a trade in the UK through a depositary, or intermediaries, in the chain of ownership between US permanent establishment or, in the case of any other US Holder, such holders and the issuer of the security underlying the depositary receipts US Holder carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a may be taking actions that are inconsistent with the claiming of foreign UK branch or agency and such ordinary share, non-cumulative dollar tax credits for US holders of depositary receipts.
Such actions in preference share, ordinary ADS or preference ADS is or has been used, connection with pre-release activity would also be inconsistent with the held or acquired by or for the purposes of such trade or profession or claiming of the reduced rate of US tax applicable to dividends received vocation, permanent establishment, branch or agency.
Special rules by certain non-corporate US holders.
Accordingly, availability of the apply to individuals who are temporarily not resident or ordinarily reduced tax rate for dividends received by certain non-corporate US resident in the UK.
holders of ordinary ADSs could be affected by actions taken by such parties or intermediaries.
A US Holder will, upon the sale or other disposition of an ordinary share, a non-cumulative dollar preference share, an ordinary ADS or a preference ADS, or upon the redemption of a non-cumulative dollar 292 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 preference share or preference ADS, generally recognise capital gain or paid in the UK in a case where the ordinary share, non-cumulative loss for US federal income tax purposes assuming that in the case of a dollar preference share, ordinary ADS or preference ADS is subject to redemption of a non-cumulative dollar preference share or a preference both UK inheritance tax and US federal estate or gift tax.
ADS, such US Holder does not own, and is not deemed to own, any ordinary shares or ordinary ADSs of the company in an amount equal UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax SDRT to the difference between the amount realised excluding in the case of The following is a summary of the UK stamp duty and SDRT a redemption any amount treated as a dividend for US federal income consequences of transferring an ADS or ADR in registered form tax purposes, which will be taxed accordingly and the US Holders tax otherwise than to the custodian on cancellation of the ADS or of basis in such share or ADS.
This capital gain or loss will be long-term transferring an ordinary share or a non-cumulative dollar preference capital gain or loss if the US Holder held the share or ADS so sold, share.
A transfer of a registered ADS or ADR executed and retained in disposed or redeemed for more than one year.
the United States will not give rise to stamp duty and an agreement to transfer a registered ADS or ADR will not give rise to SDRT.
Stamp duty A US Holder who is liable for both UK and US tax on a gain recognised or SDRT will normally be payable on or in respect of transfers of on the disposal of an ordinary share, a non-cumulative dollar preference ordinary shares or non-cumulative dollar preference shares and share, an ordinary ADS or a preference ADS will generally be entitled, accordingly any holder who acquires or intends to acquire ordinary subject to certain limitations, to credit the UK tax against its US federal shares or non-cumulative dollar preference shares is advised to consult income tax liability in respect of such gain.
its own tax advisers in relation to stamp duty and SDRT.
If a corporate US Holder is subject to UK corporation tax by reason of PROs carrying on a trade in the UK through a permanent establishment and United States its non-cumulative dollar preference share or preference ADS is, or has Payments of interest on a PRO including any UK withholding tax, as to been, used, held or acquired for the purposes of that permanent which see below will constitute foreign source dividend income for US establishment, certain provisions introduced by the Finance No.
2 Act federal income tax purposes to the extent paid out of the current or 2005 will apply if the US Holder holds its non-cumulative dollar accumulated earnings and profits of the company, as determined for preference share or preference ADS for a tax avoidance purpose.
If US federal income tax purposes.
Payments will not be eligible for the these provisions apply, dividends on the non-cumulative dollar dividends-received deduction generally allowed to corporate US preference share or preference ADS, as well as certain fair value credits holders.
A US Holder who is entitled under the Treaty to a refund of UK and debits arising in respect of such share or ADS, will be brought tax, if any, withheld on a payment will not be entitled to claim a foreign within the charge to UK corporation tax on income and the UK tax tax credit with respect to such tax.
position outlined in the preceding paragraphs will not apply in relation to such US Holder.
Subject to applicable limitations that may vary depending upon a holders individual circumstances, dividends paid to certain nonEstate and gift tax corporate US Holders in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2011 Subject to the discussion of the Estate Tax Treaty in the next paragraph, will be taxable at a maximum tax rate of 15%.
Non-corporate US ordinary shares, non-cumulative dollar preference shares, ordinary Holders should consult their own tax advisers to determine whether they ADSs or preference ADSs beneficially owned by an individual may be are subject to any special rules that limit their ability to be taxed at this subject to UK inheritance tax subject to exemptions and reliefs on the favourable rate.
death of the individual or in certain circumstances, if such shares or ADSs are the subject of a gift including a transfer at less than market In addition, bills have been introduced in both the US House and the US value by such individual.
Inheritance tax is not generally chargeable Senate which would have denied the favourable tax rates described in on gifts to individuals made more than seven years before the death of the preceding paragraph for dividends paid in respect of certain the donor.
Ordinary shares, non-cumulative dollar preference shares, securities, including securities such as PROs, where the issuer of the ordinary ADSs or preference ADSs held by the trustees of a settlement securities is allowed a deduction under the tax laws of a foreign country will also be subject to UK inheritance tax.
Special rules apply to such with respect to such dividend.
The proposed legislation would have settlements.
applied to dividends received after the date of its enactment.
It is not possible to predict whether similar legislation might be reintroduced and An ordinary share, a non-cumulative dollar preference share, an enacted in the future.
Non-corporate US Holders should consult their tax ordinary ADS or a preference ADS beneficially owned by an individual, advisers with respect to the potential enactment of currently proposed whose domicile is determined to be the United States for purposes of legislation and its application in their particular circumstances.
the Estate Tax Treaty and who is not a national of the UK, will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individuals death or on a lifetime A US Holder will, upon the sale, exchange or redemption of a PRO, transfer of such share or ADS, except in certain cases where the share generally recognise capital gain or loss for US federal income tax or ADS i is comprised in a settlement unless, at the time of the purposes assuming that in the case of a redemption, such US Holder settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the United States and was not a does not own, and is not deemed to own, any ordinary shares or national of the UK : ii is part of the business property of a UK ordinary ADSs of the company in an amount equal to the difference permanent establishment of an enterprise: or iii pertains to a UK fixed between the amount realised excluding any amount in respect of base of an individual used for the performance of independent mandatory interest and any missed payments which are to be satisfied personal services.
The Estate Tax Treaty generally provides a credit on a missed payment satisfaction date, which would be treated as against US federal estate or gift tax liability for the amount of any tax ordinary income and the US Holders tax basis in the PRO.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 293 Shareholder information continued A US Holder who is liable for both UK and US tax on gain recognised on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a UK branch or on the disposal of PROs will generally be entitled, subject to certain agency in connection with which the interest is received or to which the limitations, to credit the UK tax against its US federal income tax liability PROs are attributable.
There are exemptions for interest received by in respect of such gain.
certain categories of agents such as some brokers and investment managers.
United Kingdom Taxation of payments on the PROs EU Directive on taxation of savings income Payments on the PROs will constitute interest rather than dividends for The European Union has adopted a directive regarding the taxation of UK withholding tax purposes.
However, the PROs will constitute quoted savings income.
The Directive requires member states of the European eurobonds within the meaning of section 987 of the Income Tax Act Union to provide to the tax authorities of other member states details of 2007 and therefore payments of interest will not be subject to payments of interest and other similar income paid by a person to an withholding or deduction for or on account of UK taxation as long as the individual or certain other persons resident in another member state, PROs remain at all times listed on a recognised stock exchange within except that Belgium, Luxembourg and Austria may instead impose a the meaning of section 1005 of the Income Tax Act 2007.
In all other withholding system for a transitional period unless during such period cases, an amount must be withheld on account of UK income tax at the they elect otherwise.
basic rate currently 20% subject to any direction to the contrary by HM Revenue & Customs under the Treaty and except that the withholding Disposal including redemption obligation is disapplied in respect of payments to persons who the A disposal including redemption of PROs by a non-corporate company reasonably believes are within the charge to corporation tax or US Holder will not give rise to any liability to UK taxation on capital fall within various categories enjoying a special tax status including gains unless the US Holder carries on a trade which for this purpose charities and pension funds, or are partnerships consisting of such includes a profession or a vocation in the UK through a branch or persons unless HM Revenue & Customs directs otherwise.
Where agency and the PROs are, or have been, held or acquired for the interest has been paid under deduction of UK withholding tax, US purposes of that trade, branch or agency.
Holders may be able to recover the tax deducted under the Treaty.
A transfer of PROs by a US Holder will not give rise to a charge to UK Any paying agent or other person by or through whom interest is paid tax on accrued but unpaid interest payments, unless the US Holder is to, or by whom interest is received on behalf of an individual, may be an individual or other non-corporate taxpayer and at any time in the required to provide information in relation to the payment and the relevant year of assessment or accounting period carries on a trade in individual concerned to HM Revenue & Customs.
HM Revenue & the UK through a branch or agency to which the PROs are attributable.
Customs may communicate this information to the tax authorities of other jurisdictions.
Annual tax charges Corporate US Holders of PROs may be subject to annual UK tax HM Revenue & Customs confirmed at around the time of the issue of charges or relief by reference to fluctuations in exchange rates and in the PROs that interest payments would not be treated as distributions respect of profits, gains and losses arising from the PROs, but only if for UK tax purposes by reason of i the fact that interest may be such corporate US Holders carry on a trade, profession or vocation in deferred under the terms of issue: or ii the undated nature of the the UK through a UK permanent establishment to which the PROs are PROs, provided that at the time an interest payment is made, the PROs attributable.
are not held by a company which is associated with the company or by a funded company.
A company will be associated with the company if, Inheritance tax broadly speaking, it is part of the same group as the company.
A In relation to PROs held through DTC or any other clearing system, the company will be a funded company for these purposes if there are UK inheritance tax position is not free from doubt in respect of a lifetime arrangements involving that company being put in funds directly or transfer, or death of, a US Holder who is not domiciled nor deemed to indirectly by the company, or an entity associated with the company.
In be domiciled in the UK for inheritance tax purposes: HM Revenue & this respect, HM Revenue & Customs has confirmed that a company Customs is known to consider that the situs of securities held in this holding an interest in the PROs which incidentally has banking facilities manner is not necessarily determined by the place where the securities with any company associated with the company will not be a funded are registered.
In appropriate circumstances, there may be a charge to company by virtue of such facilities.
Interest on the PROs constitutes UK inheritance tax as a result of a lifetime transfer at less than market UK source income for UK tax purposes and, as such, may be subject to value by, or on the death of, such US Holder.
Inheritance tax is not income tax by direct assessment even where paid without withholding.
generally chargeable on gifts to individuals made more than seven However, interest with a UK source received without deduction or years before the death of the donor.
However, exemption from, or a withholding on account of UK tax will not be chargeable to UK tax in the reduction of, any such UK tax liability may be available under the Estate hands of a US Holder unless, in the case of a corporate US Holder, Tax Treaty see below.
US Holders should consult their professional such US Holder carries on a trade in the UK through a UK permanent advisers in relation to such potential liability.
establishment or in the case of other US Holders, such persons carry 294 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
