Business review continued Operational risk unaudited level, taking into account the cost of minimising the risk with the Operational risk is the risk of financial loss or reputational impact resultant reduction in exposure.
Strategies to manage operational risk resulting from fraud: human error: ineffective or inadequately designed include avoidance, transfer, and mitigation by controls or risk processes or systems: improper behaviour: legal events: or from acceptance.
Operational risk is an integral and unavoidable part of the Groups business as it is inherent in the processes it operates to To ensure appropriate responsibility is allocated for the management, provide services to customers and generate profit for shareholders.
reporting and escalation of operational risk, the Group operates a three lines of defence model which outlines principles for the roles, An objective of operational risk management is not to remove responsibilities and accountabilities for operational risk management.
operational risk altogether, but to manage the risk to an acceptable Operational Risk three lines of defence model 1st Line of defence 2nd Line of defence 3rd Line of defence The Business Operational Risk Group Internal Audit Accountable for the ownership and day-to-day Responsible for the implementation and Responsible for providing independent management and control of operational risk.
maintenance of the operational risk assurance on the design, adequacy and framework, tools and methodologies.
effectiveness of the Groups system of Responsible for implementing internal controls.
processes in compliance with Group policies.
Responsible for oversight and challenge on the adequacy of the risk and control Responsible for testing key controls and processes operating in the business.
monitoring compliance with Group policies.
The three lines of defence model and the Operational Risk Policy and determined by the seriousness of the event.
Operational loss events Principles ORPP apply throughout the Group and are implemented are categorised under the following headings: taking into account the nature and scale of the underlying business.
The ORPP provides the direction for delivering effective operational risk Clients, products and business practices: management.
It comprises principles, minimum standards and processes that enable the consistent identification, assessment, Technology and infrastructure failures: management, monitoring and reporting of operational risk across the Group.
The objectives of the ORPP are to protect the Group from Employment practices and workplace safety: financial loss or damage to its reputation, its customers or staff and to ensure that it meets all necessary regulatory and legal requirements.
Internal fraud: The Group-wide processes defined in the ORPP are supported by the External fraud: following key operational risk management techniques: Execution, delivery and process management: Risk and control assessments: business units identify and assess operational risks to ensure that they are effectively managed, Malicious damage: and prioritised, documented and aligned to risk appetite.
Scenario analysis: scenarios for operational risk are used to assess the possible impact of extreme but plausible operational risk loss Key risk indicators: business units monitor key risk indicators against events.
Scenario assessments provide a forward-looking basis for their material risks.
These indicators are used to monitor the managing exposures that are beyond the Groups risk appetite.
operational risk profile and exposure to losses against thresholds which trigger risk management actions.
Loss data management: each business unit`s internal loss data management process captures all operational risk loss events above New product approval process: ensures that all new products or 10,000.
This is used to enhance the adequacy and effectiveness of significant variations to existing products are subject to a controls, identify opportunities to prevent or reduce the impact of recomprehensive risk assessment.
Products are evaluated and occurrence, identify emerging themes, enable formal loss event approved by specialist areas and are subject to executive approval reporting and inform risk and control assessments and scenario prior to launch.
Escalation of individual events to senior management is 118 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 In 2008, the Group introduced a new self-certification process, which documented.
Where unacceptable control weaknesses are identified, requires management to regularly monitor and report on the internal action plans must be produced and tracked to completion.
control framework for which they are responsible and regularly review and confirm its adequacy and effectiveness.
This includes certifying The Group purchases insurance to provide the business with financial compliance with the requirements of Group policies.
protection against specific losses and to comply with statutory or contractual requirements.
Insurance is primarily used as an additional The ORPP requires each business unit to determine appropriate risk mitigation tool in controlling the Groups exposures.
However, as mitigation techniques to reduce its risk exposure to an acceptable level, insurance only provides protection against financial loss once a risk has and that the adequacy and effectiveness of controls and other risk crystallised, it is used as a complement to other controls.
mitigants e. g. insurance are tested regularly and the results Operational risk metrics Operational risk events that have an actual or potential financial impact Reporting forms an integral part of operational risk management.
The in excess of 1 million, or which have a material impact on the Groups Groups risk management processes are designed to ensure that reputation or customers, are escalated and reported to divisional and operational risk issues are identified, escalated and managed on a Group executive.
Operational risk exposures for each division are reported through monthly risk and control reports, which provide detail on the The graph below shows the operational risk events by category and risk exposures and action plans for each significant business process.
value for 2007 and 2008, for the Group on a statutory basis.
Operational risk events by risk category % of total risk events by count The chart below shows a similar distribution of loss event numbers across the risk categories in 2008 as those in 2007.
60% 50% 40% 30% % of 2007 loss 20% events counts % of 2008 loss events counts 10% Clients, Disasters Employment Execution, External Internal Malicious Technology product and and practices and delivery and fraud fraud damage and business public workplace process infrastructure practices safety safety management failures RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 119
