In the statutory consolidated income statement on page 174, these items are included in total income.
2 Underlying profit represents pro forma profit before tax, credit market write-downs and one-off items impairment losses on reclassified assets, purchased intangibles amortisation, write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets, integration costs, restructuring costs and share of shared assets.
3 Pro forma excludes write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets.
4 Pro forma cost:income ratio represents operating expenses excluding purchased intangibles amortisation, write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets, integration costs, restructuring costs and share of shared assets expressed as a percentage of total income excluding credit market write-downs and one-off items.
5 Prior year per share data have been restated to reflect the rights issue in June 2008 and the capitalisation issue in September 2008.
6 Adjusted earnings per share is based on earnings adjusted for purchased intangibles amortisation, write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets, integration costs, restructuring costs, share of shared assets and credit market write-downs and one-off items.
7 2008 data are on a Basel II basis: data for 2007 are on a Basel I basis.
Overview of results Pro forma results have been prepared that include only those business As discussed on page 24, the results of ABN AMRO are fully units of ABN AMRO that will be retained by RBS and assuming that the consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
Consequently, the acquisition of ABN AMRO was completed on 1 January 2007.
The per statutory results of RBS for the year ended 31 December 2007 and share data have been calculated on the assumption that the rights issue 2008 include the results of ABN AMRO for 76 days and the full year in June 2008 and the capitalisation issue in September 2008 occurred respectively.
The interests of the State of the Netherlands and on 1 January 2007.
The financial review and divisional performance in Santander in RFS Holdings are included in minority interests.
the Business review focus on the pro forma results.
The basis of preparation of the pro forma results are detailed on page 74.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 35
