32 Memorandum items Contingent liabilities and commitments The amounts shown in the table below are intended only to provide an indication of the volume of business outstanding at 31 December.
Although the Group is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance of the obligations undertaken by customers, the amounts shown do not, and are not intended to, provide any indication of the Groups expectation of future losses.
Group More than More than 1 year but 3 years but Less than less than less than Over 1 year 3 years 5 years 5 years 2008 2007 m m m m m m Contingent liabilities: Guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security 29,350 7,738 2,898 9,276 49,262 46,441 Other contingent liabilities 9,093 6,637 2,252 4,293 22,275 15,479 38,443 14,375 5,150 13,569 71,537 61,920 Commitments: Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend less than one year 166,572 166,572 181,914 one year and over 22,209 70,301 62,725 30,591 185,826 150,897 Other commitments 6,715 309 1,210 1,092 9,326 5,368 195,496 70,610 63,935 31,683 361,724 338,179 Banking commitments and contingent obligations, which have been Trustee and other fiduciary activities entered into on behalf of customers and for which there are In its capacity as trustee or other fiduciary role, the Group may hold corresponding obligations from customers, are not included in assets and or place assets on behalf of individuals, trusts, companies, pension liabilities.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit loss, in the event of schemes and others.
The assets and their income are not included non-performance by the other party and where all counterclaims, in the Groups financial statements.
The Group earned fee income collateral or security proves valueless, is represented by the contractual of 1,442 million 2007 695 million: 2006 472 million from nominal amount of these instruments included in the table above.
commitments and contingent obligations are subject to the Groups normal credit approval processes.
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS, the UK's Contingent liabilities statutory fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial Guarantees the Group gives guarantees on behalf of customers.
A services firms, pays compensation if a firm is unable to meet its financial guarantee represents an irrevocable undertaking that the Group obligations.
The FSCS funds compensation for customers by raising will meet a customers obligations to third parties if the customer fails to management expenses levies and compensation levies on the industry.
The maximum amount that the Group could be required to pay In relation to protected deposits, each deposit-taking institution under a guarantee is its principal amount as disclosed in the table above.
contributes towards these levies in proportion to their share of total The Group expects most guarantees it provides to expire unused.
protected deposits on 31 December of the year preceding the scheme year which runs from 1 April to 31 March, subject to annual maxima Other contingent liabilities these include standby letters of credit, set by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
In addition, the FSCS has supporting customer debt issues and contingent liabilities relating to the power to raise levies exit levies on firms who have ceased to customer trading activities such as those arising from performance and participate in the scheme and are in the process of ceasing to be customs bonds, warranties and indemnities.
authorised for the amount that the firm would otherwise have been asked to pay during the relevant levy year.
The FSCS also has the power Commitments to raise exit levies on such firms which look at their potential liability to Commitments to lend under a loan commitment the Group agrees to pay levies in future years.
make funds available to a customer in the future.
Loan commitments, which are usually for a specified term may be unconditionally FSCS has borrowed from HM Treasury to fund the compensation costs cancellable or may persist, provided all conditions in the loan facility are associated with Bradford & Bingley, Heritable Bank, Kaupthing Singer & satisfied or waived.
Commitments to lend include commercial standby Friedlander, Landsbanki Icesave and London Scottish Bank plc.
These facilities and credit lines, liquidity facilities to commercial paper conduits borrowings are on an interest-only basis until September 2011.
The and unutilised overdraft facilities.
annual limit on the FSCS management expenses levy for the three years from September 2008 in relation to these institutions has been capped Other commitments these include documentary credits, which are at 1 billion per annum.
commercial letters of credit providing for payment by the Group to a named beneficiary against presentation of specified documents, The FSCS will receive funds from asset sales, surplus cash flow, or other forward asset purchases, forward deposits placed and undrawn note recoveries in relation to these institutions which will be used to reduce issuance and revolving underwriting facilities, and other short-term trade the principal amount of the FSCS's borrowings.
Only after the interest related transactions.
only period, which is expected to end in September 2011, will a schedule RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 251 N No otte es s o on n tth he e a ac cc co ou un ntts s c co on nttiin nu ue ed d 32 Memorandum items continued withdrawing its cross border MIF, pending the outcome of the appeal.
for repayment of any remaining principal outstanding after recoveries The Group has been granted leave to intervene in the appeal on the borrowings be agreed between the FSCS and HM Treasury.
Visas MIFs were exempted in 2002 by the European expected that, from that point, the FSCS will begin to raise compensation Commission for a period of five years up to 31 December 2007 subject levies principal repayments.
No provision has been made for these to certain conditions.
On 26 March 2008, the European Commission levies as the amount is not yet known and is unlikely to be determined opened a formal inquiry into Visas current MIF arrangements for cross before 2011. border payment card transactions with Visa-branded debit and consumer credit cards in the European Union.
There is no deadline for The Group has accrued 150 million for its share of FSCS management the closure of the inquiry.
expenses levies for the 2008 9 and 2009 10 scheme years.
United Kingdom Investigations In the United Kingdom, in September 2005, the Office of Fair Trading The Groups businesses and financial condition can be affected by the OFT received a super-complaint from the Citizens Advice Bureau fiscal or other policies and other actions of various governmental and relating to payment protection insurance PPI.
As a result, the OFT regulatory authorities in the United Kingdom, the European Union, the commenced a market study on PPI in April 2006.
In October 2006, the United States and elsewhere.
OFT announced the outcome of the market study and, on 7 February 2007, following a period of consultation, the OFT referred the PPI The Group has engaged, and will continue to engage, in discussions market to the Competition Commission CC for an in-depth inquiry.
The with relevant regulators, including in the United Kingdom and the United CC published its final report on 29 January 2009.
It found a lack of States, on an ongoing and regular basis informing them of operational, competition in the PPI market as a result of various factors, including a systems and control evaluations and issues as deemed appropriate or lack of transparency and barriers to entry for standalone providers.
The required and it is possible that any matters discussed or identified may CC will therefore impose by Order a range of remedies, including a result in investigatory actions by the regulators, increased costs being prohibition on actively selling PPI at point of sale of the credit product incurred by the Group, remediation of systems and controls, public or and for 7 days thereafter, a ban on single premium policies and other private censure or fines.
Any of these events or circumstances could measures to increase transparency in order to improve customers have a material adverse impact on the Group its business, reputation, ability to search and improve price competition.
The deadline for results of operations or share price.
There is continuing political and regulatory scrutiny of the operation of The FSA has been conducting a broad industry thematic review of PPI the retail banking and consumer credit industries in the United Kingdom sales practices and in September 2008 announced that it intends to and elsewhere.
The nature and impact of future changes in policies and escalate its level of regulatory intervention.
The FSA is expected to regulatory action are not predictable and are beyond the Groups publish a further update in 2009.
Substantial numbers of customer control but could have an adverse impact on the Groups businesses complaints alleging the mis-selling of PPI policies have been made to and earnings.
banks and to the Financial Ombudsman Service FOS and many of these are being upheld by the FOS against the banks.
Discussions European Union continue between the FSA, the FOS and industry bodies on how best to In the European Union, regulatory actions included an inquiry into retail handle these complaints.
Separately, discussions are ongoing between banking in all of the then 25 member states by the European the FSA and the Group in respect of concerns expressed by the FSA Commissions Directorate General for Competition.
The inquiry over certain categories of historic PPI sales.
examined retail banking in Europe generally.
On 31 January 2007, the European Commission announced that barriers to competition in certain The OFT has carried out investigations into Visa and MasterCard areas of retail banking, payment cards and payment systems in the domestic credit card interchange rates.
The decision by the OFT in the European Union had been identified.
The European Commission MasterCard interchange case was set aside by the Competition indicated that it will consider using its powers to address these barriers Appeals Tribunal in June 2006.
The OFTs investigations in the Visa and will encourage national competition authorities to enforce European interchange case and a second MasterCard interchange case are and national competition laws where appropriate.
The outcome is not known, but these investigations may have an impact on the consumer credit industry in general and, therefore, on In 2007, the European Commission issued a decision that, while the Groups business in this sector.
On 9 February 2007, the OFT interchange is not illegal per se, MasterCards current multilateral announced that it was expanding its investigation into domestic interchange fee MIF arrangement for cross border payment card interchange rates to include debit cards.
transactions with MasterCard and Maestro-branded consumer credit and debit cards in the European Union are in breach of competition law.
On 29 March 2007, the OFT announced that, following an initial review MasterCard was required by the decision to withdraw the relevant cross into bank current account charges, it had decided to conduct a market border MIFs by 21 June 2008.
MasterCard lodged an appeal against study into personal current accounts in the United Kingdom and a the decision with the European Court of First Instance on 1 March 2008, formal investigation into the fairness of bank current account charges.
and on 12 June 2008 it announced that it would be temporarily 252 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 On 16 July 2008, the OFT published the results of its market study into prosecution agreement in which ABN AMRO would waive indictment and personal current accounts in the United Kingdom.
The OFT found agree to the filing of information in the United States District Court evidence of competition and several positive features in the personal charging it with certain violations of federal law based on information current account market but believes that the market as a whole is not disclosed in an agreed factual statement.
ABN AMRO would also agree working well for consumers and that the ability of the market to function to continue co-operating in the United States ongoing investigation and well has become distorted.
The OFT is currently consulting with the to settle all known civil and criminal claims currently held by the United banking industry, consumer groups and interested parties on its report.
States for the sum of US$500 million.
The precise terms of the deferred After this consultation the OFT will decide on next steps, which could prosecution agreement are still under negotiation.
include further discussions or agreed remedies with the industry, or possibly a reference of the market to the CC.
These compliance issues and the related sanctions and investigations have had, and will continue to have, an impact on ABN AMROs The OFTs investigation into the fairness of bank current account operations in the United States, including limitations on expansion.
On 12 August 2008, the OFT indicated to the Group AMRO is actively exploring all possible options to resolve these issues.
and other banks that, although it had not concluded its investigation and The ultimate resolution of these compliance issues and related had reached no final view, it had serious concerns that contractual investigations and the nature and severity of possible additional terms relating to Relevant Charges in personal current account sanctions cannot be predicted.
agreements were unfair under the Regulations.
The OFT is currently consulting with the Group and other banks on this issue.
Given the The New York State Attorney General has issued subpoenas to a wide stage of the investigation, the Group cannot reliably estimate the impact array of participants in the sub-prime mortgage industry, including of any adverse outcome of the OFTs market study or investigation upon mortgage originators, appraisers, due diligence firms, investment banks it, if any.
However, the Group is co-operating fully with the OFT to and rating agencies, focusing on the information underwriters obtained achieve resolution of the matters under investigation.
as part of the due diligence process from the independent due diligence firms and whether that information is adequately disclosed to On 26 January 2007, the FSA issued a Statement of Good Practice investors.
RBS Greenwich Capital has produced documents requested relating to Mortgage Exit Administration Fees.
On 1 March 2007, the by the New York State Attorney General principally related to sub-prime Group adopted a policy of charging all customers the fee applicable at loans that were pooled into one securitisation transaction.
the time the customers took out the mortgage or, if later, varied their mortgage.
The Group believes that it is currently in compliance with the In addition to the above, certain of the Groups subsidiaries have Statement of Good Practice and will continue to monitor its performance received requests for information from various US governmental against those standards.
agencies and self-regulatory organisations including in connection with sub-prime mortgages and securitisations, collateralised debt obligations United States and synthetic products related to sub-prime mortgages.
In particular, In July 2004, ABN AMRO signed a written agreement with the US during March 2008, the Group was advised by the SEC that it had regulatory authorities concerning ABN AMROs dollar clearing activities commenced a non-public, formal investigation relating to the Groups in the New York branch.
In addition, in December 2005, ABN AMRO US sub-prime securities exposures and US residential mortgage agreed to a Cease and Desist Order with the Dutch Central Bank and exposures.
The Group and its subsidiaries are co-operating with these various US federal and state regulators.
This involved an agreement to various requests for information and investigations.
pay an aggregate civil penalty of US$75 million and a voluntary endowment of US$5 million in connection with deficiencies in the US Litigation dollar clearing operations at ABN AMROs New York branch and OFAC United Kingdom compliance procedures regarding transactions originating at its Dubai In common with other banks in the United Kingdom, the Royal Bank and branch.
ABN AMRO and members of ABN AMROs management NatWest have received claims and complaints from a large number of continue to provide information to law enforcement authorities in customers challenging unarranged overdraft charges the Charges as connection with ongoing criminal investigations relating to ABN AMROs contravening the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 dollar clearing activities, OFAC compliance procedures and other Bank the Regulations or being unenforceable penalties or both.
The Cease and Desist Order with the Dutch Central Bank was lifted on 26 July 2007 and the Cease and Desist On 27 July 2007, the OFT issued proceedings in a test case against the Order agreed with the US authorities was lifted on 9 September 2008. banks which was intended to determine certain preliminary issues Although no written agreement has yet been reached and negotiations concerning the legal status and enforceability of contractual terms are ongoing, ABN AMRO has reached an agreement in principle with the relating to the Charges.
Because of the test case, most existing and US Department of Justice that would resolve all presently known aspects new claims in the County Courts are currently stayed, the FSA of the ongoing investigation.
Under the terms of the agreement in temporarily waived the customer complaints-handling process and there principle, ABN AMRO and the United States would enter into a deferred is a standstill of Financial Ombudsman Service decisions.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 253 N No otte es s o on n tth he e a ac cc co ou un ntts s c co on nttiin nu ue ed d 32 Memorandum items continued quantified claimed damages against the Group in particular.
The Group A High Court judgment in April 2008 addressed preliminary issues in considers that it has substantial and credible legal and factual defences respect of the banks contractual terms relating to the Charges in force to these claims and will continue to defend them vigorously.
Recent in early 2008 the Current Terms.
The judgment held that the Current decisions by the US Supreme Court and the US Federal Court for the Terms used by the Royal Bank and NatWest i are not unenforceable as Fifth Circuit provide further support for the Groups position.
The Group penalties, but ii are not exempt from assessment for fairness under the is unable reliably to estimate the liability, if any, that might arise or its Regulations.
The Group in common with the other banks has accepted effect on the Groups consolidated net assets, operating results or cash that the ruling in the April judgment that the Current Terms are not flows in any particular period.
exempt from assessment for fairness applies also to a sample of the Royal Bank and NatWest contractual terms relating to the Charges in Group companies have been named as defendants in a number of force between 2001 and 2007 the Historic Terms.
The High Court purported class action and other lawsuits in the United States that relate made an order to this effect in October 2008. to the sub-prime mortgage business.
In general, the cases involve the issuance of sub-prime-related securities or the issuance of shares in The Group and the other banks have appealed against the rulings in companies with sub-prime-related exposure, where the plaintiffs have April and October 2008 that the Current Terms and Historic Terms are brought actions against the issuers and underwriters including Group not exempt from assessment for fairness under the Regulations.
The companies of such securities claiming that certain disclosures made in hearing of the appeal in relation to Current Terms took place before the connection with the relevant offerings of such securities were false or Court of Appeal in October and November 2008.
The decision of the misleading.
The Group considers that it has substantial and credible Court of Appeal is expected shortly.
The appeal in relation to the legal and factual defences to these claims and will continue to defend Historic Terms is stayed pending the resolution of the appeal in relation them vigorously.
The Group does not currently expect that these to the Current Terms.
lawsuits, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material impact on its consolidated net assets, operating results or cash flows in any High Court judgments on further preliminary issues were handed down particular period.
These judgments primarily addressed the question of whether certain Historic Terms were capable The company and a number of its subsidiaries and certain individual of being unenforceable penalties.
The Judge decided that all of the officers and directors have been named as defendants in a number of Royal Banks and most of NatWests Historic Terms were not penalties, class action complaints filed in the United States District Court for the but that a term contained in a set of NatWest 2001 terms and conditions Southern District of New York.
The complaints allege that public filings was a contractual prohibition against using a card to obtain an in connection with the issuance of non-cumulative dollar preference unarranged overdraft.
The Judge did not decide whether any charge shares, ADS, including Series Q, Series R, Series S and Series T, payable upon a breach of this prohibition was a penalty.
The Group has contained false and misleading statements, and variously assert claims not appealed that decision.
under Sections 11, 12 and 15 of the Securities Act 1933, Section 10 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Rule 10b-5.
Plaintiffs The issues relating to the legal status and enforceability of the Charges seek unquantified damages on behalf of purchasers of these shares.
The Group maintains that its Charges are fair and The proceedings are in their initial stages.
The Group considers that it enforceable and believes that it has a number of substantive and has substantial and credible legal and factual defences to these claims credible defences.
The Group cannot at this stage predict with any and will defend them vigorously.
The Group is unable reliably to estimate certainty the final outcome of the customer claims and complaints, the liability, if any, that might arise or its effect on the Groups the appeals referred to above and any further stages of the test case.
consolidated net assets, operating results or cash flows in any particular It is unable reliably to estimate the liability, if any, that may arise as period.
a result of or in connection with these matters or its effect on the Groups consolidated net assets, operating results or cash flows in Other disputes, legal proceedings and litigation any particular period.
Members of the Group are engaged in other litigation in the United Kingdom and a number of overseas jurisdictions, including the United United States States, involving claims by and against them arising in the ordinary Proceedings, including consolidated class actions on behalf of former course of business.
The Group has reviewed these other actual, Enron securities holders, have been brought in the United States against threatened and known potential claims and proceedings and, after a large number of defendants, including the Group, following the consulting with its legal advisers, does not expect that the outcome of collapse of Enron.
The claims against the Group could be significant: these other claims and proceedings will have a material adverse effect the class plaintiffs position is that each defendant is responsible for an on its consolidated net assets, operating results or cash flows in any entire aggregate damage amount less settlements they have not particular period.
254 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
