Shareholder information continued Important addresses Principal offices Shareholder enquiries The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Registrar PO Box 1000 Gogarburn Edinburgh EH12 1HQ Computershare Investor Services PLC Telephone: 0131 626 0000 The Pavilions Bridgwater Road The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Bristol BS99 6ZZ PO Box 1000 Gogarburn Edinburgh EH12 1HQ Telephone: 0870 702 0135 280 Bishopsgate London EC2M 4RB Facsimile: 0870 703 6009 Email: web.
co. uk National Westminster Bank Plc 135 Bishopsgate London EC2M 3UR ADR Depositary Bank BNY Mellon Shareowner Services Citizens PO Box 358516 Citizens Financial Group, Inc. Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8516 One Citizens Plaza Providence Rhode Island 02903 USA Telephone: 866 241 9317 US callers Telephone: 201 680 6825 International Ulster Bank Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.
com 11-16 Donegall Square East Belfast BT1 5UB Website: www.
com shareowner Georges Quay Dublin 2 Group Secretariat RBS Insurance The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Direct Line House 3 Edridge Road Croydon Surrey CR9 1AG PO Box 1000 Churchill Court Westmoreland Road Bromley Kent BR1 1DP Business House F Gogarburn RBS Greenwich Capital Edinburgh EH12 1HQ 600 Steamboat Road Telephone: 0131 556 8555 Greenwich Connecticut 06830 USA Facsimile: 0131 626 3081 Coutts Group Investor Relations 440 Strand London WC2R 0QS 280 Bishopsgate London EC2M 4RB The Royal Bank of Scotland International Limited Telephone: 44 0 207 672 1758 Royal Bank House 71 Bath Street Facsimile: 44 0 207 672 1801 St Helier Jersey Channel Islands JE4 8PJ Email: investor.
com NatWest Offshore Registered office 23 25 Broad Street 36 St Andrew Square St Helier Jersey Channel Islands JE4 8QJ Edinburgh EH2 2YB Telephone: 0131 556 8555 ABN AMRO Holding N. V. Registered in Scotland No.
45551 Gustav Mahlerlaan 10 1082 PP Amsterdam The Netherlands Website www.
com 296 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Published by The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Designed by Addison www.
co. uk Printed by St Ives Westerham Press This report is printed on ERA Silk paper.
This paper has been independently certified as meeting the standards of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC, and was manufactured at a mill that is certified to the ISO14001 and EMAS environmental standards.
Please remove the front cover of this report if you are recycling it.
It has a protective laminate to prolong its shelf life and we await recyclable alternatives which the printing industry is addressing as a matter of urgency.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Group Headquarters PO Box 1000 Gogarburn Edinburgh EH12 1HQ rbs.
com Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Group Headquarters PO Box 1000 Gogarburn Edinburgh EH12 1HQ rbs.
com Important addresses Shareholder enquiries Registrar Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ Telephone: 0870 702 0135 Facsimile: 0870 703 6009 Email: web.
co. uk ADR Depositary Bank BNY Mellon Shareowner Services PO Box 358516 Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8516 Telephone: 866 241 9317 US callers Telephone: 201 680 6825 International Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.
com shareowner Group Secretariat The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc PO Box 1000 Business House F Gogarburn Edinburgh EH12 1HQ Telephone: 0131 556 8555 Facsimile: 0131 626 3081 Investor Relations 280 Bishopsgate London EC2M 4RB Telephone: 44 0 207 672 1758 Facsimile: 44 0 207 672 1801 Email: investor.
com Registered office 36 St Andrew Square Edinburgh EH2 2YB Telephone: 0131 556 8555 Registered in Scotland No.
com Published by The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Designed by Addison www.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Contents 2008 Key financials 02 Chairmans statement 04 Group Chief Executives review Pro forma Underlying profit 1 80 million Divisional review Loss attributable to ordinary shareholders 2 7.9 billion 07 Global Banking & Markets Total income 3 26.9 billion 09 Global Transaction Services Impairment losses 4 7.0 billion 10 UK Retail & Commercial Banking Credit market losses 5 7.8 billion 13 US Retail & Commercial Banking Write-down of goodwill and 14 Europe & Middle East Retail & other intangible assets 6 16.2 billion Commercial Banking Total capital ratio 14.2% 15 Asia Retail & Commercial Banking Core Tier 1 capital ratio 7 7.0% 16 RBS Insurance Tier 1 capital ratio 9.9% Corporate Responsibility Basic loss per ordinary share 8 61.0p 18 Our approach 18 Progress against priorities in 2008 Statutory 19 Investing in financial education Loss before tax 40.7 billion 20 Supporting business customers Loss attributable to ordinary shareholders 24.1 billion 21 Supporting personal customers Basic loss per ordinary share 145.7p 21 Environment Core Tier 1 capital ratio 6.8% Directors report and summary financial statement The key pro forma financials above are based on the pro forma results 24 Board of directors and secretary for the year ended 31 December 2008 and include only those business units of ABN AMRO Holding N. V. which will be retained by the Group.
26 Letter from the Chairman of the The statutory results are presented on pages 37 and 38.
Remuneration Committee 27 Summary remuneration report Notes: 1 Profit before tax, credit market write-downs and one-off items, impairment losses on 32 Financial results reclassified assets, purchased intangibles amortisation, write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets, integration costs, restructuring costs and share of ABN AMRO 39 Shareholder information shared assets.
2 Before write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets, net of tax.
3 Excluding credit market write-downs and one-off items and share of shared assets.
4 Excluding impairment losses on reclassified assets.
7 Adjusted for the conversion of preference shares into ordinary shares.
8 Loss per ordinary share is based on the assumption that the rights issue and capitalisation issue were completed on 1 January 2008.
RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 1 Chairmans statement Despite this, I believe strongly that RBS can be successful once again.
I am privileged to have been given the opportunity to chair the Group.
This remains a truly international company with many excellent businesses.
Our roots may be in Scotland and our largest market in the UK, but we also employ 10,000 people in India, enjoy strong positions on the island of Ireland through Ulster Bank and in our United States markets through Citizens.
The Global Markets businesses are precisely that: global.
They will continue to operate in the leading financial centres, supporting our corporate, institutional and financial sector clients around the world.
The international nature of the Group is reflected by the fact that during 2008 we were able to benefit from liquidity support provided by central banks in a number of jurisdictions.
With hard work, determination and a willingness to take tough decisions we have the people and capabilities to enable the Group to recover.
We can make it a profitable investment, a model corporate citizen in all of the countries in which it My first statement to you as Chairman operates and an excellent place to work.
follows an exceptionally difficult period Justifying the support of our shareholders in the history of The Royal Bank of Twice during 2008 the Group sought additional capital from shareholders to enable it to weather the very testing environment Scotland Group.
The last 12 months and to achieve the higher capital ratios that markets now demand.
or so have been painful for our On the second occasion, the capital raising was underwritten by the UK government and in November it became the Groups shareholders and employees and majority shareholder.
sometimes testing for our customers.
The UK government wants RBS to operate on a commercial basis and intends to act as an arms length commercial We owe our continued independence shareholder, which will sell its interests in RBS and other banks to the UK government and taxpayers at the earliest attractive time.
We are working to restore the Groups financial performance in order to and are very thankful for their support.
allow us to repay the UK taxpayer as soon as is practicable.
The external environment has seen An inevitable but regrettable consequence of the successive unprecedented turbulence in bank and capital raising exercises has been the dilution of the interests other financial markets and deteriorating of existing shareholders.
My predecessor Sir Tom McKillop apologised to shareholders for the impact on them of the economic conditions around the world.
erosion of their investments, a sentiment I echo.
Those of us Our disappointing financial results now charged with leading RBS are committed to implementing measures which will allow us to restore the Group to standalone reflect these circumstances and our financial health in the interests of all shareholders.
It is not appropriate to pay any dividend on the ordinary shares in 2009.
However, the Board is very mindful that dividends are an extremely important part of shareholder return and income.
It is the Boards intention over time to return to paying dividends, taking account of the Groups capital position, retained earnings and prospects.
To that end, we welcome the fact that the existing prohibition on the payment of dividends on the ordinary shares will be removed when the preference shares held by UKFI are redeemed.
2 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Changing the way we work Our customers and communities To achieve its objectives, the company needs to change not Most of our businesses were profitable in 2008.
That was just the business we do but how we do business.
That includes because they met their customers needs.
A consistent hallmark our governance arrangements.
The directors decided that a of RBS has been the ability to work with our customers and to restructured Board with fewer members would be better able provide them with a high quality of service, whether they are to engage in the restructuring process which the company will personal or corporate customers, be they in the UK, Ireland, the undertake.
As a result, a number of Non-Executive Directors USA or across continental Europe and Asia.
RBS has frequently resigned from the Board in February 2009.
I would like to thank led our peers in service quality league tables.
each of them for their service to the company.
In particular, I wish to acknowledge the contribution of Sir Tom McKillop who chaired We are grateful for the support our customers gave us during RBS through testing times with great dedication and integrity.
2008, when their faith in us might understandably have been dented, and recognise that our plans will succeed only if we We will appoint a further three Non-Executive Directors in due continue to serve them well.
In every country where RBS operates, we do so within a Our people wider community.
Our activities affect, and are affected by the Last year was also a period of great anxiety and uncertainty for customers, governments, suppliers and other stakeholders with our employees.
Despite this, the vast majority of them contributed which we interact.
On joining the company, it was encouraging to a profitable year for their own businesses and they demonstrated to learn that we provide banking services to more small firms the commitment that will be needed to return the Group to good than any other UK bank and that our flagship money advice health.
Unfortunately, however, the uncertainty is not over and and financial education programme, MoneySense, has been many of our people will be affected by the steps we must take in place for many years.
As an international company, we have to restore RBS to strength.
My experience of leading businesses extended MoneySense to Ireland and the US.
We support the through periods of significant change has taught me that causes our staff care about and invest to improve the capacity people are resilient and work best when they have certainty of community to generate wealth.
These programmes are more over strategic direction, clarity about the role they are being relevant than ever to the challenges that lie ahead.
asked to play and feel engaged in pursuing shared objectives.
We have already begun to provide certainty and clarity over We recognise that our reputation has been damaged by the strategy and management structures.
My further commitments events of the last year.
So, too, has the reputation of the banking to our people are that we will move as swiftly as possible where industry in countries across the globe.
We are determined to change is required and that we will work to ensure that those rebuild our reputation, and to demonstrate leadership in the affected by change are the first to know about it.
industry in this respect, partly through our core purpose of business success, but also by playing a constructive and We must also engage our people with a new employment responsible role in the communities in which we operate.
proposition which sets incentives that reward them for delivering sustained and sustainable success.
The way forward I am confident that we can, must and will restore the RBS Group Aligning remuneration with long-term shareholder value to standalone financial strength.
Last year was undeniably tough In recognition of the crisis in global financial services and the and a worsening economic environment means that 2009 will unprecedented losses incurred by the RBS Group in 2008 the present significant challenges in all of our markets.
The path to Remuneration Committee of the Board has been working to recovery will be neither smooth nor straight.
But we build on a bring about fundamental change to the way remuneration works number of strengths: excellent businesses, talented people and, throughout the Group.
There is an obvious need for very above all, millions of loyal customers around the world who significant change to compensation policies and practice recognise the quality of service that we provide.
By doing our across the industry and we intend that RBS will be fully best by them, in all of our enduring franchises around the world, engaged in the necessary process of change.
we will take the actions that will deliver once again sustainable returns for our shareholders.
Our approach has sought to balance the reality of our current losses at Group level with a need to offer a competitive remuneration package for teams and individuals that are performing Philip Hampton well and in a manner that is sustainable in the long-term.
Chairman RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 3 Group Chief Executives review 2008 Results While a downturn was anticipated, no one could have foretold the unprecedented market disruption and global economic downturn that we now experience.
With roots in economic imbalances across many countries, the downturn has weakened many.
However, that is little consolation for the particular vulnerability that RBS has exhibited.
In 2008 the Groups overall results were bad, with net attributable losses, before goodwill impairments, of 7.9 billion.
This is particularly disappointing since many parts of our business did well, serving customers and generating high quality profitability.
All our Divisions were profitable except Global Banking & Markets GBM and Asia Retail & Commercial Banking.
Even in GBM, underlying income reached 10.2 billion on the back of many strong business performances.
Unfortunately, these profits were more than wiped out by credit and market losses in concentrated areas around proprietary trading, structured credit and counterparty exposures.
Over 50% of these losses pertained As this is my first letter to RBS to ABN AMRO-originated portfolios.
shareholders, I should open by In addition, the change in market outlook and our vulnerability saying how aware we all are of thereto has required a 16.2 billion accounting write-down of goodwill and other intangibles relating to prior year acquisitions, the responsibility for leading this most notably of ABN AMRO in 2007 and Charter One in the US institution into better times.
This non-cash item has minimal impact on capital but does highlight the risk of acquisitions if economic conditions a great importance to 40 million change adversely.
customers, to many corporations and From a capital perspective, successive capital raisings have governments worldwide, to our substantially strengthened the Groups capital ratios.
Reported losses have only partially eroded these, and our core Tier 1 ratio shareholders and to all those in the stood at 7.0% at the end of 2008, pro forma for the conversion communities we serve.
In common with of our preference shares, compared with 4.0% a year earlier.
Additionally, the funded balance sheet was reduced by many, we are facing tough times.
We 93 billion, or 17% in constant currency terms.
Unfortunately, will do our best to work through these, the extreme dislocation of markets has impeded the risk reduction we target, leaving much still to do.
Moreover, the fall in to support our customers and to sterling exchange rates inflates our international balance sheet and this, plus extreme market movements, also increases the restore RBS to standalone financial value of our derivatives balances, albeit recording amounts that health and success.
would be largely netted off under US GAAP.
RBS has strong businesses, and has taken steps to restore its capital base and benefits from clear Government support.
It is our primary task to rebuild standalone strength in the coming years.
4 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 The task we face risk concentrations and illiquid originate and hold asset We are intensely engaged in finalising a strategic restructuring portfolios.
The remainder will be risk concentrations, out of plan for RBS.
The goal is to correct those factors that made us footprint assets and smaller, less advantaged businesses particularly vulnerable to the downturn and to adjust further our within our Regional Markets activities across the world.
business to reflect changes in the environment facing our industry.
While the plan will not be complete until the second As part of this effort our representation in approximately 36 quarter of 2009, we have decided a lot already.
of the 54 countries in which we operate will be significantly reduced or sold.
We will remain strong in all our major Our strategic plans will take three to five years to execute, given existing global hubs, however.
the headwinds of economic downturn.
Nevertheless, we expect to make strong and purposeful progress each and every year.
Given the commercial and human sensitivity of these issues, detail on this will not be given until the interim results.
Our aspiration is that RBS should again become one of the worlds premier financial institutions, anchored in the UK but The income, expenses, impairments and write-downs serving individual and institutional customers here and globally, associated with the Non-Core Division in 2008 were and doing it well.
We aim for AA category standalone credit approximately 3.9 billion, 1.1 billion, 3.2 billion and status and to rebuild shareholder value, along the way enabling 9.2 billion respectively.
the UK Government to sell down its shareholding.
In addition to eliminating expenses associated with the NonWe should be known for our businesses and how we manage Core Division, the restructuring plan will make efficiency savings them.
We want to focus on enduring customer franchises, with across the Group, aimed at achieving run-rate reductions by top tier competitive positions where we choose to compete.
2011 of greater than 2.5 billion 16% of 2008 cost base at Our businesses will target 15% return on equity and primarily constant exchange rates.
This will involve re-engineering and organic growth at rates consistent with the markets in which other measures and, regrettably, reductions in employment.
Our businesses should reinforce each other with This target excludes any impact of inflation, incentive pay shared products, customers and expertise.
Our risks should be movements or cost reductions arising from business exits or the diversified, well controlled and proportionate to the business impact of new projects if any.
It includes the 0.5 billion of and customer opportunity.
ABN AMRO integration benefits previously announced but not reflected in 2008 expenses.
We will book one-off charges In management style we want to be purposeful, to make it against these actions over the next three years, with run-rate happen for our customers and then for our shareholders.
We will cost savings expected to provide payback in 1.5 to 1.75 years.
anchor our efforts in strategic understanding of the businesses, focusing on long-term, quality profitability.
Our business mix We plan to retain each of our major business Divisions since should be more biased to stable customer businesses than before.
we believe, with intensive restructuring, they can meet the We aim to rely less on volatile, unsecured wholesale funding.
attractive business characteristics outlined as targets above.
In many cases the restructuring of these businesses to Strategic Restructuring Plan achieve our goals will be far-reaching.
The greatest element of We have embarked on a sweeping restructuring of the Group restructuring will be in GBM.
A substantial shrinkage of size, that will fit our activities to the goals above.
While the details of product and geographic scope will take place.
This should the Strategic Plan will be refined over the coming weeks, we are leave GBM positioned around those of its existing core now able to announce the following: strengths that rest on profitable customer franchise business with significantly less illiquid risk overall.
We will create a non-core Division of RBS during the second quarter of 2009, separately managed, but within the existing At all times we will responsibly compare the value to RBS legal structures of the Group and matrix-managed to of each of our businesses with realistic alternatives and take donating Divisions where necessary.
This Division will have different actions if they prove compelling.
The current state approximately 240 billion of third party assets, 145 billion of of markets for financial assets and businesses offers little derivative balances and 155 billion of risk-weighted assets, immediate encouragement in that regard.
comprising individual assets, portfolios and businesses of the Group that we intend to run off or dispose of during the next Alongside our business restructuring activities will be three to five years.
The specific timetable will vary in each substantive changes to management and internal processes.
case, consistent with optimising shareholder value and risk.
There will continue to be changes of personnel as we promote Approximately 90% of the Non-Core Division will consist of and reassign internal talent and add to our ranks externally.
GBM assets, primarily linked to proprietary portfolios, excess RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 5 Group Chief Executives review continued Our priorities Our Manufacturing Division will re-align with our customer-facing businesses.
Businesses will have clear bottom-line returns, allocated equity and balance sheet and funding goals.
While we drive for profit, there will be a Our aspiration concentration on earnings quality and sustainability, driven RBS should again become one of the worlds by strategic plans, to ensure alignment of our businesses to their markets and their risk targets.
People evaluation premier financial institutions, anchored in the UK but and incentivisation will meet best practice levels to serving individual and institutional customers here support the revised mission of the company.
and globally, and doing it well.
This will be underpinned by a full suite of risk and funding constraints, including concentration limits.
Our aims This major change programme has already begun.
To carry it through while running our continuing business To achieve AA category standalone credit status in difficult markets will test our management capacity.
We expect to be successful overall, though we will inevitably To rebuild shareholder value, along the way have setbacks and make mistakes along the way.
But there enabling the UK Government to sell down its is no alternative.
RBS must change in a far-reaching way.
If shareholding we do that, the strength, quality and power that are already present in our business across the world will be what shines through once again.
We will achieve our aims by Outlook Focusing our activities on serving enduring To make any forecast is hazardous, beyond the expectation customer franchises, with top tier competitive that 2009 will be a very tough year for the world economy.
positions where we choose to compete RBS, in common with all banks, will see some erosion of underlying income levels as a result of weaker business Targeting 15% return on equity in our businesses activity and low interest rates squeezing savings margins whilst credit costs rise, probably sharply.
We hope that Achieving primarily organic growth at rates consistent markets will be less disrupted than in 2008, with lower with the markets in which our businesses operate associated write-downs, but time will tell.
2009 has, in fact, started well for our businesses.
Using proportionately our balance sheet, funding and risk We have confirmed our intended participation in HM Treasurys Asset Protection Scheme APS.
This would be Having businesses that reinforce each other with subject to shareholder approval.
More information will be shared products, customers and expertise made available as soon as practicable.
Notwithstanding the challenging outlook, our businesses Our approach will entail all around the world are inherently good and fully engaged in sustaining as robust a performance as the environment A purposeful management style permits.
And the strategic restructuring we have embarked on will see high levels of activity designed to reposition Making it happen for our customers and then RBS successfully.
for our shareholders I believe RBS can come to be regarded again as one of A strategic understanding of our businesses the worlds premier financial institutions.
My special thanks and a focus on long-term, quality profitability go to all my colleagues around the world serving our customers everyday, and redoubling their efforts to move A business mix more biased than before to RBS forward again.
stable customer businesses Stephen Hester Aiming to rely less on volatile, unsecured Group Chief Executive wholesale funding 6 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Divisional review Global Banking & Markets Global Banking & Markets is a leading banking partner to major corporations and financial institutions around the world, providing an extensive range of debt and equity financing, risk management and investment services to its customers.
In 2008 the division was organised along four principal business lines: rates, currencies, and commodities, including RBS Sempra Commodities LLP, the  joint venture between RBS and Sempra Energy which was formed on 1 April 2008: equities: credit markets: and asset and portfolio management.
The poor results recorded by GBM in 2008 should not be allowed to disguise the fact that many businesses produced good performances, most notably rates and currencies, and that the activities which directly support our relationships with customers provide the platform for a return to sustainable profitability.
Total income before credit market write-downs and unusual items was 10,214 million, down 6% from 2007.
In addition to losses on previously identified credit market exposures of 7,781 million, GBM incurred 5,776 million in trading asset write-downs.
Although direct expenses were cut by 18% as we addressed the challenges facing the business, credit impairments rose sharply.
The operating loss for the year was 10,994 million.
On an indicative basis, the return on equity ROE of GBM was -35%.
These losses occurred in relatively narrow parts of the business, focused on proprietary trading, structured credit and counterparty exposure.
More than 50% of losses pertained to Divisionalreview ABN AMRO-originated portfolios.
Despite the disappointing headlines and the difficulties encountered by individual business lines, market volatility provided opportunities.
The rates and currencies business RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 7 Divisional review continued achieved a particularly strong performance, with high volumes RBS is renewing its commitment to product areas where GBM of customer activity and flow trading resulting in a 40% increase has market-leading competitive positions across its customer in income from rates trading to 3,543 million and 55% growth centric origination, advisory and trading activities.
It has strong in currencies income to 1,697 million.
The Sempra Commodities market positions in loans, bonds, foreign exchange, rates, joint venture performed well in the nine months after its formation, commodities and equities and will drive these businesses, with GBMs commodities income reaching 778 million for the year.
restructured where necessary, in a focused manner around customers needs.
GBM will discontinue all illiquid proprietary Equities saw reduced customer flow and write-downs on trading trading activities and correlation trading in equity and credit positions as markets deteriorated rapidly.
It will drastically scale back activity in structured real some successes in arranging debt financing for its customers estate, leveraged and project finance, and exit lending in these but remained severely affected by market dislocation.
All businesses, and notably GBMs asset finance businesses, will be managed within strict capital guidelines.
The task that GBM faces is to rebuild a business in which profit is sustainable.
We start from a very solid foundation of strong Globally, the intention is for GBM to move increasingly towards underlying revenues.
In addition, we enjoy global top five rankings a hub-and-spoke model.
Risk will be managed from regional in corporate lending, foreign exchange rates, commodities and hubs.
It is intended that distribution and coverage will be interest rates and options.
Our problems have largely arisen in delivered from a mix of hub countries and a scaled-back trading structured credit products and taking significant longer presence in some local offices.
The aim, over time, will be to term underwriting risk.
In doing so, we strayed from the model reduce much of the on-shore trading activity outside the key which had originally brought us success: of focusing on the financial centres.
needs of our customers and trading in markets only in order to support them.
As a result, our balance sheet has grown in ways Assets, products and geographies that fit GBMs new clientthat added risk without corresponding returns.
focused proposition will be defined as core and will remain within the division.
Assets, business lines and some geographies Strategic review that are non-core will be transferred to the new Non-Core Following the review, GBM intends to focus its business around Division.
These non-core activities accounted for approximately its core corporate and institutional customer set across the 205 billion of third party assets at end 2008. world.
These clients are global in nature and are multi-product users.
GBM will deploy capital and resources in support of this None of this will be easy.
The difficult economic environment customer base and will continue to arrange and distribute credit around the world will make 2009 another challenging year.
We loans and bonds and build sustained competitive advantage are confident, however, that at the core of GBM lies an excellent in its core financing, risk management and investment products, franchise which can deliver enduring profitability to the Group.
8 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Global Transaction Services on 2007.
GTS has substantially improved its penetration into the Asia-Pacific market, increasing trade finance income in the Global Transaction Services GTS ranked among region by 74%, and has expanded its supply chain finance the top five global transaction services providers in activities with an enhanced product suite.
2008, offering global payments, cash and liquidity management, as well as trade finance, United Merchant services and commercial cards offers customers a wide range of card issuing and acquiring solutions, products Kingdom and international merchant acquiring and and services.
It delivered a 6% increase in income to 694 commercial card products and services.
Acquiring volumes were up 23% in the year driven by the Groups corporate money transmission activities good growth in online volumes, although weaker consumer in the United Kingdom and the United States.
confidence in the latter part of the year meant that average transaction values decreased, slowing income growth.
Commercial cards income grew by 16%.
Income grew by 12% to 2,472 million, the growth rate being maintained in the second half of GTS has maintained its market share and is ranked fifth worldwide the year, despite difficult market conditions.
Direct expenses for transaction banking in terms of both revenue, at constant were 9% higher at 594 million, mainly as a result of investment exchange rates and network.
In the UK, it is number one for in the franchise to support growth.
Operating profit increased CHAPS, cheque processing and BACS transmissions.
On an indicative basis, the ROE of merchant services retained its number one position in the UK GTS was 60%.
market, handling more than one in three of all card transactions.
Growth was driven by a strong performance in cash management, The GTS business successfully exploits economies of scale which provides clients with liquidity management, and and scope.
On scale: international and domestic payment services.
Income rose 9% in the year to 1,514 million with good growth in international International Cash Management processes over one billion cash management markets and steadier growth in UK and US payments and collections annually: domestic markets.
The Division was successful throughout the year in winning new international cash management mandates Domestic Cash Management processes three billion BACS from existing RBS Group clients due to the strength of the transactions in the UK each year: international payments platform and network.
Trade Finance processes 1.1 million collections and letters Trade finance executes and advises on customers trade-related of credit annually: and finance and risk requirements.
It made significant progress, with income continuing to grow strongly throughout the year, up 57% our cards businesses process six billion transactions per annum worth 233 trillion, peaking at approximately 500 transactions per second.
RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 9 Divisional review continued On scope, GTS is an integral part of the offering of GBM, and RBS UK holds a leading market share across all of the business our regional commercial and corporate businesses, which, in & commercial and corporate sectors.
Through its network of turn, introduce customers to GTS.
relationship managers it distributes a full range of banking, finance and risk management services, including market-leading Strategic review invoice finance and asset finance offerings.
GTS remains a strategically attractive business for RBS, providing important working capital and payment solutions to The UK wealth management arm offers high quality private the Groups customers and substantial scope remains to crossbanking and investment services through the Coutts, Adam & sell global transaction services to our corporate and financial Company, RBS International and NatWest Offshore brands.
institutions clients, particularly those in the UK.
GTS plans to right-size its global network consistent with developing Europe The results for the year reflect a weaker second half with rapidly as its core base, it will retain the capability to continue to serve deteriorating economic conditions in the UK.
Total income grew both locally and globally all multi-national customers who are at modestly, up 2% on 2007 to 10,814 million.
A consistent theme the heart of the core GBM proposition, whilst at all times across the businesses was the weakness of non-interest maintaining service levels during the change.
The business also income, which was down 5%, reflecting generally lower demand plans to increase efficiency through development of a lower for a range of products.
Direct expenses increased by 6% to cost front and back-office operating model and explore joint 3,171 million and impairment losses by 44% to 1,964 million, ventures for growth and selective disposals.
with a marked deterioration in the second half of the year.
Operating profit declined by 18% to 3,283 million.
The Although the year ahead will present challenges as slowing indicative ROE of UK Retail & Commercial Banking was 18%.
global growth affects trade flows and transaction volumes, GTS remains an attractive component of the Groups portfolio UK Retail Banking for the future.
Total income was unchanged on the year at 6,794 million.
Direct costs rose modestly, by 1% to 1,832 million.
Impairments increased by 8% to 1,281 million.
Operating profit UK Retail & Commercial Banking declined by 12% to 1,764 million.
UK Retail & Commercial Banking RBS UK In a testing environment, Retail Banking supported customers comprises retail, corporate and commercial banking by maintaining the availability of lending, while managing risk.
It operates through a range of channels including on-line and Business Banking continued to grow, maintaining market fixed and mobile telephony, and through two of the leadership with a share of 26%.
Loans and advances to small business customers were up 7% despite a significant largest networks of branches and ATMs in the UK.
In the retail market, RBS UK serves over 15 million personal customers through the RBS and NatWest brands.
It offers a full range of banking products and related financial services including mortgages, bancassurance products, deposit accounts, and credit and charge cards.
10 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Mortgage balances at 31 December 2008 were 11% higher The Committed Overdraft facility provides customers with rethan a year earlier, in the face of weaker demand in the assurance that their facility will remain in place for the agreed second half of the year.
Market share of net mortgage term, usually 12 months.
lending increased to 19% from 2% at the end of 2007. Business Lifeline is a source of advice and information which A number of specific initiatives were taken to help customers complements the work of relationship managers.
Open from deal with the effects of market turbulence and the recession.
8 to 8, Monday to Friday, the telephone help desk allows customers to speak directly to experienced bankers.
Under the Mortgage Repossession Initiative, RBS has extended the options for customers unable to meet their mortgage Almost 700,000 Business Banking customers have received a payments following a change in circumstances, such as loss guide to support them through the downturn, covering topics of employment, by allowing more flexibility to agree reduced such as managing cash-flow, and spreading risk and a payments for a period or short payment holidays.
directory of sources of advice and information.
As part of our Help Me Programme, we proactively identify The Retail Banking franchise exhibits a number of strengths that customers showing signs of financial stress enabling us to position it well for the long-term.
The RBS and NatWest brands contact customers to offer advice and solutions to help them enjoy a reputation for excellence in customer service.
Last year, manage their money.
We are continually enhancing our systems according to leading independent research, RBS retained top and processes to gain greater insights into our customers position and NatWest was again joint second for customer behaviour and ensure we offer the appropriate solution, at the satisfaction amongst main high street banks.
The Group ranks right time and through the right channel for each customer.
second in terms of market share in the critical current account market and regularly secures the largest share of current Specifically to provide advice to customers and others accounts opened by first year higher education students.
concerned about their personal finances, 2008 saw an Examples for 2008 which illustrate the strength of the franchise extension of our long-standing MoneySense programme.
include: 1,000 MoneySense advisers were introduced to NatWest and RBS branches, all of whom have received training personal savings grew by 9% and business deposits by accredited by the independent charity Consumer Credit 3% despite increased competition and a slowing market Counselling Service.
for deposits: and Steps were also taken to assist Business Banking customers RBS and NatWest attracted more than one million new through the downturn.
current accounts in the year.
Under our Price Promise to small business customers, we have undertaken not to increase: margins on overdrafts for existing customers at facility review where there is no change to their risk profile: and standard fees for arranging an overdraft.
RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 11 Divisional review continued UK Corporate & Commercial Banking UK Wealth generates earnings from both private banking and Total income increased by 5% to 3,161 million, with growth investment services.
This balanced income base allowed it to slowing in the second half of the year as the economy maintain robust organic growth, despite market conditions.
Direct expenses increased by 13% to 1,015 Coutts & Co performed particularly well, with contribution up 15%.
million, principally as a result of a 26% rise in operating lease depreciation to 401 million reflecting both higher volumes and Our UK wealth businesses have strong brands and are well lower than expected residual values in the Lombard vehicle positioned in their markets.
Adam & Company is number one in leasing business.
Excluding this item, direct expenses increased Scotland, with RBS International also number one in the Channel by 6% to 614 million as additional relationship managers were Islands and the Isle of Man.
Coutts & Co is number two across recruited.
Impairment losses increased from the historically low the UK.
In addition to their profit contribution, they generate level of 2007, by 273% to 671 million.
Operating profit fell by deposits for the Group.
We believe that attractive opportunities 30% to 1,116 million.
exist for further sustainable, profitable development of our UK wealth businesses, building on these existing strengths.
Support for customers is evident in the 18% growth of average loans and advances.
Average deposit balances increased by Strategic review 3% despite volatility and acute competition in that market.
UK Retail and Commercial Banking retains an extremely strong franchise and represents the core of the RBS Group.
However, RBS enjoys leading positions in the corporate and commercial the external environment over the next few years will present markets.
Customer satisfaction in corporate is strong and significant challenges with pressure on income as a result of increased in 2008 over 2007, both overall and in the key area very low interest rates, lower fee income, and impairment costs, of the quality of relationship managers.
Almost 19 out of 20 which are likely to increase further.
customers surveyed said that they would advocate RBS to other businesses.
These are strong foundations on which to build The business plans to respond to this environment by reducing enduring profitability.
cost and increasing productivity through investment in online service channels, automation of activities and re-design of endUK Wealth to-end processes.
The business will tailor the cost of service for Total income grew robustly, by 9% to 859 million.
Direct different client segments more closely to their value generation.
expenses increased by 13% to 324 million.
This figure included one-off cost provision items resulting from economic Wealth management remains a strong growth opportunity and conditions.
Operating profit increased by 5% to 403 million.
the business plans to pursue a more consolidated approach to the market through more co-ordination across the multiple brands with which it currently faces the market, whilst investing in additional Relationship Managers and platform functionality.
12 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 The Division will pursue above market growth in customer widened and household wealth contracted.
Impairment losses deposits to improve its funding contribution to the Group, and increased by 184% to $1,929 million, compared with 2007. will diversify its customer lending, reducing its exposure to In the externally sourced home equity portfolio, impairments commercial property.
rose by 80% to $592 million, although the second half figure of $268 million was lower than the first halfs $324 million.
In the core US Retail & Commercial portfolio, impairments were 281% US Retail & Commercial Banking higher than in 2007 at $1,337 million, with a marked deterioration in the second half of the year.
Stress was evident in all sectors.
US Retail & Commercial Banking provides financial Citizens loss rates were low relative to its peers.
services primarily through the Citizens and Charter One brands.
Average core customer deposits declined by 5% and the division further reduced its reliance on brokered deposits by 80%, leading to an overall decline of 11% in average customer Citizens is engaged in retail and corporate banking activities deposits.
Net interest margin was held steady, reflecting through its branch network in 13 states in the United States and widening asset margins and careful management of savings through non-branch offices in other states.
Citizens was ranked rates in a competitive deposit market.
the tenth-largest commercial banking organisation in the United States based on deposits as at 30 September 2008 and is a top The Division continued to evaluate opportunities to optimise tier bank in its New England and Mid Atlantic regional markets.
capital allocation by exiting or reducing exposure to lower growth or sub-scale segments.
In the fourth quarter of 2008, In a year of continued, acute market turbulence and a sharp 18 rural branches in the Adirondack region of New York were slowdown in economic activity, the Divisions total income was sold to Community Bank System.
An agreement has also been essentially unchanged at $5,578 million, a rise of 8% in sterling reached to sell the Indiana retail branch network, consisting of terms to 3,010 million.
Operating profit fell by 57% to $972 65 branches, and the Indiana business banking and regional million and by 54% in sterling terms to 524 million.
Direct banking activities, to Old National Bank.
These and other expenses rose by 5% to $2,012 million, reflecting both the measures will also assist in containing costs in future.
continued expansion of commercial banking relationship management teams and write-downs on mortgage servicing One benefit of increased volatility in the economy was that the rights and other costs related to loan workout and collection Commercial Markets business generated strong revenues as activity.
The indicative ROE of US Retail & Commercial customers sought to manage risks.
Revenues from interest rate Banking was 8%.
and foreign exchange products increased significantly on 2007 figures, with foreign exchange particularly strong.
The Division Rising impairments were the main cause of the decline in continued to innovate to enhance customer service.
Citizens operating profit and reflected an environment in which house upgraded its Online Banking and Bill Pay system, giving prices continued to fall and unemployment to rise, credit spreads customers the ability to pay bills more quickly and to track and RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 13 Divisional review continued manage payments from a new, user-friendly interface.
Early In weakened economic conditions, operating profit after 2008 saw the launch of E-Z Deposit.
This service enables Manufacturing costs fell by 85% to 70 million.
Total income business owners to scan deposits and to deliver the images reached 1,518 million, an increase of 6% in sterling terms, electronically to the bank via a secure internet connection from although reflecting a drop of 5% when stated on a constant their own premises.
This eliminates the need to visit a branch, currency basis.
Direct expenses rose by 12% in sterling terms, as well as reducing the time before deposits reach accounts.
although were flat when viewed on a constant currency basis, reflecting disciplined management of the cost base, particularly Strategic review in the second half of 2008.
The main impact on performance in Citizens has a high quality retail and commercial banking the division was a significant increase in impairment losses, albeit franchise in the north eastern US.
New England and the Mid from a low base, particularly in Ulster Bank, where impairments Atlantic are attractive banking markets, and Citizens is well rose to 394 million.
This reflects the impact on credit quality of positioned in them in terms of market share and key local the slowdown in the Irish economy and the increased flow of market coverage.
The business intends to invest in this core cases into the problem debt management process.
business through increased marketing activity and targeted technology investments, whilst reducing activity in its out-ofAverage loans and advances to customers increased by footprint national businesses in consumer and commercial 25% versus prior year, or 12% when stated on a constant finance.
This strategy will allow Citizens to be become fully currency basis.
funded from its own customer deposits over time, and will support a low risk profile.
Average deposit balances in the E&ME division were 13% higher in sterling terms and largely flat at constant exchange rates reflecting particularly the highly competitive market for resources Europe & Middle East Retail & Commercial Banking in Ireland in 2008.
Deposit flows in Ulster Bank were strong in the latter part of the year and into the early months of 2009.
Europe & Middle East Retail & Commercial Banking comprises Ulster Bank and the Groups combined Over 119,000 personal current accounts were opened by Ulster retail and commercial businesses in Europe and the Bank across the island of Ireland in 2008, up 17% on 2007.
the UAE, RBS issued 170,000 credit cards in 2008, taking the total number in circulation over 430,000.
Ulster Bank provides a comprehensive range of financial services External recognition of the Divisions achievements in 2008 across the island of Ireland.
Its retail banking arm has a network included Ulster Bank winning the KPMG Business Banking of branches and operates in the personal, commercial and wealth Excellence Award for an unprecedented fourth successive year, management sectors, while its corporate markets operations while RBS UAE won the Best Premium Priority Banking Service provide services in the corporate and institutional markets.
Award at the 2008 Banker Middle East Product Awards.
14 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 In Ireland, Ulster Bank has been pro-active in responding to the The E&ME Retail and Commercial franchises outside of Ireland challenging local and global market conditions through a lack scale and breadth.
They would require a very significant programme of initiatives, which includes the move to a single investment of capital and management resource to be able to brand strategy under the Ulster Bank brand.
This will see the achieve levels of shareholder return equivalent to those possible merger of the operations of Ulster Bank and First Active in the from more established core franchises in the Group.
We have Republic of Ireland RI by the end of 2009.
A series of cost commenced a review to consider future options for these management initiatives has also commenced across the business.
businesses, including options for sale.
Steps to support customers through this difficult economic period have also been initiated in Ireland.
Ulster Bank Asia Retail & Commercial Banking announced in February 2009 that it will be making available Asia Retail & Commercial Banking is present in significant funds for the Northern Ireland NI SME sector, with markets including India, Pakistan, China, Taiwan, a similar support initiative soon to launch in RI.
Ulster Bank has Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore.
also adopted the Groups pledge regarding certainty of overdraft limits for this segment.
To support personal customers, the Groups MoneySense It provides financial services across four segments: affluent financial education programme is being rolled out across the banking, cards and consumer finance, business banking and island of Ireland with trained advisors being introduced to all international wealth management, which offers private banking Ulster Bank branches.
The Momentum and Secure Step and investment services to clients in selected markets through mortgages have been launched in NI and RI respectively to the RBS Coutts brand.
Asias economies slowed sharply in 2008 and especially the Strategic review second half, ending a decade of consistent, widespread and often Ulster Bank remains a core part of the Groups global banking rapid growth in the region.
This was reflected in the performance operations.
It has a strong franchise in Ireland and has the of Asia Retail & Commercial Banking, although comparisons with product and distribution capability to grow profitably and well in the prior year are affected by the marked depreciation of sterling normal market conditions.
The business plans to manage its during the year.
While income increased by 12% to 781 million, balance sheet over the medium term, with particular focus on an operating loss after manufacturing costs of 113 million was reducing risk concentrations as market conditions allow, whilst incurred, compared with a loss of 20 million in 2007. increasing and diversifying its customer deposit base.
RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 15 Divisional review continued Direct expenses increased by 30% to 483 million.
This Total assets under management for the Division at 31 December reflected higher collection costs and continued investment in 2008 were 7% higher than a year earlier at 21.2 billion, while the Groups infrastructure in the region, including the customer deposits were 40% higher, partly reflecting exchange recruitment of additional experienced private bankers in RBS rate movements.
Impairment losses increased by 44% to 171 million, largely as a result of pressures on the Indian consumer Strategic review finance book.
The indicative ROE of Asia Retail & Commercial Asia Retail & Commercial Banking has established operations Banking was -16%.
in a number of fast growing and attractive markets.
However, the franchise is thinly spread and in general has not yet Volatile market conditions reduced demand among clients for achieved significant scale.
The Group intends to exit its retail structured and equity fund products and led to a slowing in and commercial activities in these areas.
RBS Coutts will affluent banking income.
Despite this, Royal Preferred Banking, remain a core business.
which was launched in a number of countries during the year, saw client numbers increase by 13% and assets under management in the affluent segment grew by 3%.
Royal Wealth RBS Insurance Management was launched in India, emphasising our RBS Insurance is the UKs second largest general commitment to that market.
insurer and the largest personal lines insurer by Credit cards and consumer finance metrics have continually gross written premiums.
It sells and underwrites been reviewed over the period resulting in further tightening of personal lines and SME insurance over the consumer lending policies.
This has led to lower levels of card telephone and internet, as well as through brokers, and loan acquisition.
There has also been a slowdown in the RBS Group bank branches and partnerships.
Despite this, the cards and consumer finance business reported income growth of 20%.
Business banking saw strong growth across most regions with revenue increasing by 28%, having performed particularly well Its brands include Direct Line, which sells general insurance in India, Pakistan and China.
products direct to the customer, while the Churchill and Privilege brands sell both directly to the customer and via RBS Coutts, our wealth management business, continued to selected price comparison websites.
In addition, NIG sells deliver good income growth of 19% and strong levels of client general insurance products through independent brokers and acquisition, up 5% in the year.
Despite adverse financial Green Flag is RBS Insurances provider of the rescue product.
markets and significant levels of client fide-leveraging, assets Internationally, RBS Insurance sells general insurance, mainly under management in the international wealth business grew by motor, in Spain, Germany and Italy under the Direct Line brand.
We continued to rebrand Coutts businesses outside the UK to RBS Coutts.
16 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 RBS remains the UKs largest motor insurer and its second The international businesses performed well, with income largest home insurer.
This is supported by the strength of the up 24% and contribution up 37%.
These businesses now have Direct Line and Churchill brands which maintained their more than 2.5 million customers.
RBS Insurance, under the positions as the two leading motor insurance brands.
The total Direct Line brand, is the largest direct motor insurer in Spain, number of in-force policies was 7% higher in December 2008 the second largest in Italy and the third largest in Germany.
The success of RBS Insurance in 2008 was delivered by RBS Insurance made strong progress in 2008.
Operating profit another strong performance from our people.
This was after manufacturing costs rose by 99 million to a record 780 illustrated by the Group-wide Your Feedback survey, which million, an increase of 15%.
Excluding the impact of the 2007 showed that RBS Insurance improved its position in 11 out of floods and prior year reserve releases, operating profit grew by 15 categories compared with 2007 and exceeded the global 6%.
Direct expenses grew by 4% to 771 million.
Net claims fell financial services norm in 12 of the 15 categories.
by 7% to 3,733 million and by 3% if the effects of the 2007 floods and reserving review are excluded.
The indicative ROE of Throughout 2008, RBS Insurance continued to develop and RBS Insurance was 38%.
This involved a focus on low-cost customer acquisition through multiple distribution channels, During 2008, RBS Insurance continued its strategy of growing efficiency enhancements to our low-cost operations, and own brand business, with income increasing 7%.
Within the improved underwriting risk selection and claims handling.
This partnership market, RBS Insurance continued to focus on the has given the company a strong foundation and leaves it well more profitable opportunities which resulted in discontinuing placed for future profitable growth despite the ongoing impacts some of the less profitable partnership contracts.
Consequently, of the current economic market conditions.
the number of partnership and broker policies in-force at December 2008 was down 9% compared with a year earlier Strategic review although contribution increased by 27%.
The Group has decided to retain RBS Insurance, reflecting the strength of its franchise as the leading UK personal lines insurer.
In 2008, RBS Insurance continued to develop its synergies with It provides high quality earnings, which are differentiated from the wider Group.
Excellent sales growth was achieved through the Groups banking businesses, providing valuable diversity and the RBS and NatWest brands, where home insurance new strong returns.
The business plans to pursue additional growth business sales increased by 289%, the equivalent of one policy through building its position in the online insurance aggregator every minute during branch opening hours.
channel, through the bank channels and in the commercial market.
The business retains competitive advantage through its market leading brands, low cost operating model and the benefits of scale on its claims costs.
RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 17 Corporate Responsibility Our approach RBS tries to be a responsible corporate citizen wherever we operate.
It involves regular and direct consultation with our stakeholders to find out what they think about how we do business and the actions they believe we should prioritise.
We use that intelligence to help plan how we run the business.
Progress towards achieving our plans is measured and monitored, allowing us to demonstrate the advances we made in 2008.
As well as responding to what we learn from stakeholders, we have to be flexible, adapting what we do as circumstances change.
The turbulence in financial markets in 2008 and its effects on our customers were precisely the types of events to which a responsible financial services company has to respond.
During the year we gave much greater emphasis to supporting our customers through the economic downturn, while continuing to work on the priorities which had previously been identified.
What this demonstrates above all is that at RBS social responsibility is business as usual.
Progress against priorities in 2008 Consultation with our stakeholders had led to the identification of 10 priority areas for action in 2008.
Full details of these are available at www.
Three leading priority areas were: financial crime: Corporate customer service: and how we market and sell our products.
Responsibility Financial crime is at the heart of our most basic responsibility as a bank: to keep our customers money secure.
During the year we: promoted Risk Guardian a fraud screening product to help reduce merchant liability from card fraud: 18 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 continued to offer customers the additional security for online and financial services, and is the largest financial education transactions afforded by two factor authentication, with over programme of its kind.
MoneySense aims to ensure that an three million customers now registered to use it: ever-increasing number of people whether or not they choose to bank with the Group are able to make informed decisions increased the use of online customer identification and based on a solid understanding of their money and how address verification systems.
financial products and services work.
Given the importance to stakeholders and to RBS of customer MoneySense for Schools is accredited by the Personal Finance service, it was encouraging that, according to leading Education Group, an independent charity that helps schools to independent research RBS retained top position and NatWest plan and teach personal finance education.
was again joint second for customer satisfaction among main high street banks.
Saturday opening was extended, so that 40% The core of MoneySense for Schools is lessons delivered to of the RBS NatWest branch network now opens on Saturdays.
young people in their classrooms.
Since 2004 alone, more than We increased the number of Customer Advisers in NatWest two million MoneySense lessons have been delivered to pupils, branches by 200 in 2008. with the figure for 2008 exceeding 700,000.
Some lessons are delivered by RBS and NatWest employees who visit schools in To respond to stakeholders interest in our approach to how their local communities and others by teachers.
Resources have we market and sell our products we: been developed to support teachers and include: increasingly focused our service on customers who get into online tutorials: financial difficulty: and a free telephone helpline which gives teachers the developed our Expert Managed Solutions product opportunity to speak to MoneySense educational experts: and proposition enabling customers to access industry-wide fund management expertise.
Teacher Zone, an area from which registered users can download support materials and resources for the modules.
Investing in financial education Understanding and confidently managing money are crucial life School Money allows young people to practise the skills they skills.
RBS has a long-standing commitment to financial have learned.
It is a school bank, run by pupils and for pupils education, one which was expanded in 2008 to help people and was established in 2006.
Last year saw the opening of the navigate difficult economic times.
100th inner city school bank, with a total of 332 in operation.
The Groups financial education activities are built around the Building financial capability is important for adults as well as MoneySense programme which has been running for more than young people.
That is why the programme was extended to 15 years.
It provides free and impartial guidance about money include MoneySense for Adults.
It offers advice and guidance RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 19 Corporate Responsibility continued in branches, through published guides and leaflets, and over offering accounts for first time homebuyers and young people the internet.
Each month, more than 10,000 copies of the saving for higher education.
Financial education and asset MoneySense guide are distributed to customers and the specific training are required and participants are matched MoneySense website receives an average of 60,000 visitors.
$2 for every $1 saved up to a total of $2,000.
Plans are currently in progress to introduce MoneySense across the US Recognising the impact that worsening economic conditions through Citizens, with additional programmes launching in 2009. would have on household budgets, RBS expanded MoneySense for Adults in December 2008.
Following a successful pilot Ulster Bank is introducing MoneySense to both RI and NI.
exercise which had already taken place earlier in the year in MoneySense for Schools modules have been made available NatWest branches in London, the Group significantly increased online and plans are in development to broaden the schools its investment in the provision of financial advice.
An additional programme and launch MoneySense services for adults during 1,000 MoneySense Advisers were introduced to RBS and 2009.
Ulster Bank in NI also provides financial support for the NatWest branches.
This made RBS the first bank to offer free, provision of independent debt advice by sponsoring the impartial financial guidance to everyone, including customers Citizens Advice Debt Advice handbook.
This is a reference of other banks and people without bank accounts.
The Group book for face-to-face debt advisers working in NI.
worked with the Consumer Credit Counselling Service a charity which offers free and confidential advice and support Supporting business customers to anyone worried about debt to train retail customer service RBS has implemented a range of measures designed to assist officers for this role.
These new MoneySense Advisers were both businesses and households in the current difficult nominated for the positions based on their exceptional economic climate.
Their job is to focus on helpful guidance, not selling products.
In November, the Group made a series of promises to small business customers of RBS and NatWest.
Under the Committed MoneySense is also being expanded to other countries in which Overdraft promise, customers committed facilities remain in the Group operates.
In the United States of America, Citizens place for 12 months from the date they are agreed, rather than Financial Group is involved in a number of financial inclusion being repayable on demand.
The Price Promise means that and capability initiatives.
In Vermont, Citizens runs a Federal committed overdraft pricing is guaranteed usually for 12 months Deposit Insurance Corporation Money Smart Series through the from the date it is agreed.
At renewal, the price will not increase branch network.
The Money Smart curriculum helps individuals unless there has been a rise in the risk associated with lending build financial knowledge, develop financial confidence, and to the customer.
Citizens Bank Connecticut is a lead partner with Empower New Havens Financial Literacy As well as this financial support, RBS also extended the face-toprogramme New Haven $AVE$.
This initiative promotes face advice and support that is already available to customers economic security for low income families in New Haven, through their relationship managers.
A team of 500 highly experienced managers was selected to provide business customers with hands on support to manage their businesses through the downturn.
This was followed in December 2008 by the launch of Business Lifeline, a specialist helpline which RBS has established to provide advice and support to small business customers.
20 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 In February 2009, the Group announced additional funding for 2008 highlights small and medium-sized enterprises SME.
This will be delivered through 12 Regional SME Funds in England, Wales and Scotland, with Ulster Bank providing the Fund for businesses in NI.
More than three million customers registered to use Along with providing traditional debt finance, the Funds will two factor authentication which provides additional offer businesses the opportunity to access other avenues to security for online transactions help them manage their capital and cash flow through the economic downturn.
Supporting personal customers Saturday opening extended in NatWest and In December 2008, RBS and NatWest introduced measures to RBS branches help mortgage customers should they face financial difficulties.
First, repossession proceedings will not proceed for a full six months after a customer first falls into arrears.
Secondly, customers in arrears will be given the opportunity to seek MoneySense lessons delivered to more advice from independent money advice organisations before than 700,000 pupils any steps are taken by the Group.
These commitments will remain in place at least until the end of 2009.
Environment 100th inner city school bank opened Through the RBS Group Environment Programme, we have been contributing to the global shift to a more sustainable and efficient use of natural resources.
We have provided a number of financial products and services that support the environmental An additional 1,000 MoneySense Advisers objectives of our customers, such as our Citizens Bank introduced to NatWest and RBS branches Green$ense account which rewards environmental behaviour and our highly successful green savings products.
In 2008 we were one of the worlds leading arrangers of finance to renewable power projects and we continued to procure MoneySense being introduced in the renewable electricity for our UK properties.
We completed island of Ireland by Ulster Bank large-scale energy efficiency upgrades to several of our main buildings around the world and continue to help our employees play their part in protecting the environment.
Additional funding for small and Our efforts in managing environmental risks and opportunities medium-sized enterprises were recognised through our inclusion for the second year running in the Carbon Disclosure Projects Leadership Index and our score in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index increased.
New mortgage repossession policy to help customers who fall into arrears Inclusion in the Carbon Disclosure Projects Leadership Index for the second year running RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 21 22 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Directors report and summary financial statement 24 Board of directors and secretary 26 Letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 27 Summary remuneration report 32 Financial results 39 Shareholder information RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 23 Board of directors and secretary Chairman Executive directors Philip Hampton age 55 Stephen Hester age 48 Chairman Group Chief Executive N Chairman, R Appointed to the Board on 19 January 2009, Philip Hampton is currently Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2008 and as Group Chief chairman of J Sainsbury plc.
Previously, he was group finance director Executive on 21 November 2008, Stephen Hester was chief executive of Lloyds TSB Group plc, BT Group plc, BG Group plc, British Gas and of The British Land Company PLC.
He was previously chief operating British Steel plc, an executive director of Lazards and a non-executive officer of Abbey National plc and prior to that he held positions with director of RMC Group plc.
He is also former chairman of UK Financial Credit Suisse First Boston including Chief Financial Officer, Head of Investments Limited, the company established to manage the UK Fixed Income and co-Head of European Investment Banking.
In Government's shareholding in banks subscribing to its recapitalisation February 2008, he was appointed non-executive deputy chairman of fund, and is a non-executive director of Belgacom SA.
Northern Rock plc, a position he relinquished on 1 October 2008.
He is also a trustee of The Foundation and Friends of the Royal Botanical Gardens, Kew.
Gordon Pell age 59 FCIBS, FCIB Chairman, Regional Markets Appointed to the Board in March 2000, Gordon Pell was formerly group director of Lloyds TSB UK Retail Banking before joining National Westminster Bank Plc as a director in February 2000 and then becoming Chief Executive, Retail Banking.
He is also a director of Race for Opportunity and a member of the FSA Practitioner Panel.
He was appointed chairman of the Business Commission on Racial Equality in the Workplace in July 2006 and deputy chairman of the Board of the British Bankers Association in September 2007.
Guy Whittaker age 52 Group Finance Director Appointed to the Board in February 2006, Guy Whittaker joined RBS after spending 25 years with Citigroup where he was the group treasurer based in New York and prior to that had held a number of management positions within the financial markets business based in London.
Key to abbreviations A member of the Audit Committee N member of the Nominations Committee R member of the Remuneration Committee independent non-executive director 24 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Non-executive directors Colin Buchan age 54 John McFarlane age 61 A, N, R Chairman N, R Appointed to the Board in June 2002, Colin Buchan was educated in Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2008, John McFarlane is former chief South Africa and spent the early part of his career in South Africa and executive officer of Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited.
He has considerable international investment banking Previously he was a group executive director of Standard Chartered experience, as well as experience in very large risk management in the and was head of Citicorp Citibank in the UK and Ireland.
He is currently equities business.
He was formerly a member of the group management a non-executive director of Westfield Holdings Limited and a director of board of UBS AG and head of equities of UBS Warburg, and was the Old Oak Holdings Limited.
He is a former president of the International former chairman of UBS Securities Canada Inc.
He is chairman of Monetary Conference and a former chairman of the Australian Bankers Standard Life Investments Limited and a director of Standard Life plc Association.
He has previously served as a director of the London Stock and Black Rock World Mining Trust Plc.
Exchange and a member of the Auditing Practices Board.
Archie Hunter age 65 Arthur Art Ryan age 66 A Chairman, N N Appointed to the Board in September 2004, Archie Hunter is a Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2008, Arthur Ryan is the former chartered accountant.
He was Scottish senior partner of KPMG chairman, chief executive officer and president of Prudential Financial between 1992 and 1999 and president of The Institute of Chartered Inc.
Previously he held senior positions with Prudential Insurance and Accountants of Scotland in 1997 1998.
He has extensive professional the former Chase Manhattan Bank NA.
He is currently a non-executive experience in the UK and North and South America.
He is currently director of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. and an active member of chairman of Macfarlane Group plc, a director of Edinburgh US Tracker numerous community boards.
He was a founding member of the Trust plc and a governor of the Beatson Institute for Cancer Research.
Joe MacHale age 57 Group General Counsel and Group Secretary A, N Miller McLean age 59 FCIBS, FIB Appointed to the Board in September 2004, Joe MacHale is currently a non-executive director and chairman of the remuneration committee of Brit Insurance Holdings plc, and a trustee and treasurer of MacMillan Miller McLean was appointed Group Secretary in August 1994.
He held a number of senior executive positions with trustee of the Industry and Parliament Trust, non-executive chairman of J P Morgan between 1979 and 2001 and was latterly chief executive The Whitehall and Industry Group, and president of the Chartered of J P Morgan Europe, Middle East and Africa Region.
He is a fellow of Institute of Bankers in Scotland.
the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 25 Letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee In recognition of the crisis in global financial services and the No bonuses have been paid to executive directors in relation to 2008 unprecedented losses incurred by the Group in 2008, the Remuneration performance, and no deferred awards have been made.
Over the past Committee has been working with the executive to bring about four years, the long term incentive awards granted under the Medium fundamental change to the way remuneration works throughout the Term Performance Plan have lapsed due to the performance criteria not Group.
There is an obvious need for very significant change to being met.
compensation policy and practice across the industry and we intend that the Group will lead that process in consultation with our major In respect of 2009, the Remuneration Committee has made key shareholders.
decisions in relation to the remuneration of executive directors: As we embark on a process of change, our approach has sought to There will be no base salary increase in 2009. balance the reality of our current situation with the need to offer a competitive remuneration package for teams and individuals that are Any bonus earned in 2009 will be deferred and subject to performing well and in a manner that is sustainable in the long-term.
Achieving this balance is essential to our task of rebuilding the Group's standalone strength as well as repaying the support of the UK No further payments will be made under the companys Profit Sharing taxpayers.
In previous years the Directors Remuneration Report has described Annual incentives for 2009 will be based on performance against a how remuneration policies are being implemented for executive framework of measures, with all payments deferred for up to three directors, but given the exceptional circumstances, I would like to years with potential clawback.
take this opportunity to describe in greater detail how the Group is approaching remuneration for all employees.
The exceptional maximum annual incentive opportunity will not be available.
Immediate key decisions taken by the Group were as follows: The individual performance management processes will be There have been no discretionary cash bonuses for any employees strengthened at executive levels.
This includes a revised performance for performance in 2008.
No bonuses have been paid to anyone scorecard.
The five performance areas are strategic direction: finance directly associated with the Groups major losses.
There are some and operations: stakeholder management including employee and limited contractual commitments to pay bonuses, typically as part of customer satisfaction : efficiency and control: and capability and an agreement on recruitment, and these have been honoured.
Where there has been exceptional performance by key individuals Long term incentive awards will continue to be made under the and teams, employees have been given deferred bonus awards.
These Medium-term Performance Plan and the Executive Share Option Plan awards will be released in three instalments in 2010, 2011 and 2012, but the level of awards will be lowered compared to 2008.
All awards in the form of RBS Group subordinated debt, by which time we hope will only vest if stretching performance conditions are met in three the Group will be well on its way to standalone financial strength.
If the performance on which these deferred bonus awards was The provision for an undiscounted pension on early retirement at based later turns out to have been materially different or if there is employer request will not apply to any executive director appointed in subsequent material loss or reputational damage as a result of the future.
activity in the deferral period, or otherwise at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, then part of these awards may be reduced The Remuneration Committee recognises that the Groups performance or cancelled without payment clawback.
has not only impacted its shareholders and customers, but also its employees who have worked so very hard over many years to build an No profit share payment has been made for financial year 2008 and organisation of which they were proud and which provided a secure the scheme has been withdrawn going forward.
We have made livelihood for them and their families.
The Board deeply regrets that our changes to benefits for some employees below manager level as part employees trust has been eroded and their welfare affected during the of the transitional arrangements to end the annual entitlement to profit last year.
While it is both necessary and appropriate that we adopt share bonuses.
stringent measures for employee compensation, we are more mindful than ever of the need for the Group to continue to develop the best Annual base salary increases in 2009 will be made to a limited employment practices in our industry to enable us to retain and recruit number of employees and salary increases will be below inflation for outstanding talent.
This is critical to the delivery of our strategic plan all businesses across the Group.
and to build a sustainable and successful Group for the future.
Colin Buchan Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 25 February 2009 26 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Summary remuneration report Remuneration policy Any incentive payments to executive directors in 2009 will reflect It has been agreed with HM Treasury that, in addition to complying with performance across five performance categories: Strategic Direction, the Association of British Insurer's best practice code on remuneration, Finance and Operations, Stakeholders, Efficiency and Control and the Remuneration Committee will continue to work to ensure that future Capability and Development.
Group business unit and functional remuneration arrangements are linked to long-term value creation in line performance will be considered as appropriate.
with the Groups business strategy, with appropriate account taken of risk and avoiding a bias towards short-term indicators such as profit or Long-term incentives revenues.
The company is also actively engaged in discussions with the The company provides long-term incentives in the form of share options Financial Services Authority FSA in relation to remuneration policies and and share or share equivalent awards.
Their objective is to encourage practices across the banking sector and intends that any remuneration the creation of value over the long term and to align the rewards of the policies should take account of the FSAs remuneration design criteria.
executive directors with the returns to shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee is formulating proposals under which awards may be made Accordingly, in conjunction with the Board and independent advisers in the future under two plans: the Medium Term Performance Plan and and in consultation with shareholders, the Remuneration Committee is the Executive Share Option Plan.
Any awards will be subject to rigorous undertaking a comprehensive review of its remuneration policy which it performance conditions on which shareholders will be consulted.
Medium-term Performance Plan Components of executive remuneration 2009 UK based directors The Medium-term Performance Plan was approved by shareholders in Salary April 2001.
Each executive director is eligible for an annual award under Base salaries of executive directors have been reviewed and it has the plan in the form of share or share equivalent awards.
Whilst the been agreed that no increases in base salaries will be made as part of rules of the plan allow awards of shares worth up to one and a half the annual 2009 review.
times earnings, the Remuneration Committee has adopted a policy of granting awards based on a multiple of salary.
No changes will be Benefits made to this policy without prior consultation with shareholders.
Executive directors are eligible to receive various employee benefits or a cash equivalent, from a flexible benefits account, on a similar basis to The award levels for 2009 will be reduced from the policy applied for other employees.
For all executive directors joining on or after 1 October 2006, pension Options provision is in the form of a pension allowance which may be used to The executive share option plan was approved by shareholders at the participate in The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Defined Contribution companys 2007 Annual General Meeting.
Pension Fund which is open to all employees, or to invest in alternative pension arrangements, or to take all or some of the allowance in cash.
In 2008, options were granted to executive directors under the executive In addition, as employees, executive directors are eligible to participate share option plan approved by shareholders in 2007, over shares worth in Sharesave and Buy As You Earn schemes.
These schemes are not between one and a half times salary and three times salary.
For 2009, subject to performance conditions since they are operated on an allthe award levels will be reduced from the policy applied in 2008. employee basis.
Shareholding guidelines Annual incentives The Group operates shareholding guidelines for executive directors.
The No annual incentive has been awarded to any executive director in target shareholding level is 200% of gross annual salary for the Group relation to 2008 performance.
Chief Executive and 100% of gross annual salary for executive directors.
Target shareholding levels are determined by reference to ordinary shares UK-based executive directors have a normal maximum annual incentive held, together with any vested awards under the Groups Medium-term opportunity of between 160% and 200% of salary with an exceptional Performance Plan.
Executive directors have a period of five years in maximum opportunity of 200-250% of salary.
The on-target opportunity which to build up their shareholdings to meet the guideline levels.
Group Chief Executive Stephen Hester The Remuneration Committee has determined that, for the financial Stephen Hester became Group Chief Executive on 21 November 2008. year ending 31 December 2009, the exceptional maximum incentive His annual basic salary is 1,200,000. opportunity will not be available.
Mr Hester also received certain share awards on appointment as Group Any annual incentive payments earned in 2009 will be deferred and Chief Executive and share awards to replace bonus and share awards released in equal annual instalments over three years.
The Remuneration he forfeited on leaving The British Land Company PLC.
Mr Hester was Committee will reserve the right to review performance prior to each granted conditional share awards over a total of 10,407,081 shares.
element of deferred incentive vesting and reduce the proportion that Subject to their terms, the majority of these awards will vest between vests if there is evidence that the financial performance for 2009 was February 2009 immediately after the announcement of the 2008 annual materially inaccurate or there is a material loss or reputational damage results and the third anniversary of his appointment as Group Chief as a result of activity during the deferral period.
RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 27 Summary remuneration report continued Chairman Philip Hampton Service contracts Philip Hampton became Chairman-designate on 19 January 2009, and The companys policy in relation to the duration of contracts with Chairman on 3 February 2009.
He will directors is that executive directors contracts generally continue until also receive a one-off restricted share award over shares in the company, termination by either party, subject to the required notice, or until which will vest, subject to the satisfaction of appropriate performance retirement.
The notice period under the service contracts of executive conditions, on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
The amount of directors will not normally exceed 12 months.
In relation to newly this award will be two times his annual fee, based on the share price at recruited executive directors, subject to the prior approval of the the date of grant.
Remuneration Committee, the notice period may be extended beyond 12 months if there is a clear case for this.
Where a longer period of Former executive directors notice is initially approved on appointment, it will normally be structured Sir Fred Goodwin such that it will automatically reduce to 12 months in due course.
Sir Fred Goodwins employment with the company ended on 31 January 2009.
Under the terms of an agreement reached on 13 October 2008, All new service contracts for executive directors are subject to approval he has waived any payment in lieu of notice and his rights in respect of by the Remuneration Committee.
Those contracts normally include unvested executive share options and unvested awards under the standard clauses covering the performance review process, the Medium-term Performance Plan have lapsed.
He will not receive a short companys normal disciplinary procedure, and terms for dismissal in the term incentive payment for the financial year ended 31 December 2008. event of failure to perform or in situations involving actions in breach of the Groups policies and standards.
Johnny Cameron Johnny Camerons employment with the company will end on Any compensation payment made in connection with the departure of 28 February 2009.
Under the terms of an agreement reached with him an executive director will be subject to approval by the Remuneration on 19 December 2008, he will not receive pay in lieu of notice or shortCommittee, having regard to the terms of the service contract and the term incentive payment for 2008 or 2009. reasons for termination.
Any Board members who leave the company in the future will receive a severence package which is reasonable and Mark Fisher perceived as fair.
Mark Fishers employment with the company will end on 6 March 2009.
He will not receive any short-term incentive payment in respect of either No compensation payment was made to Sir Fred Goodwin, Johnny 2008 or 2009.
Cameron or Mark Fisher in respect of their ceasing to be directors.
Total shareholder return performance The performance graph below illustrates the performance of the company over the past five years in terms of total shareholder return compared with that of the companies comprising the FTSE 100 Index.
This Index has been selected because it represents a cross-section of leading UK companies.
The total shareholder return for FTSE banks for the same period has been added for comparison.
The total shareholder return for the company and the indices have been rebased to 100 for 2003.
He was previously a non-executive director from 1 October 2008.
2 Sir Tom McKillop ceased to be Chairman and a director on 3 February 2009.
3 Sir Fred Goodwin ceased to be Group Chief Executive and a director on 21 November 2008.
His employment with the Group ceased on 31 January 2009.
4 Mr Cameron ceased to be a director on 13 October 2008 and will cease employment with the Group on 28 February 2009.
5 From 1 January 2008 until 30 April 2008, Mr Fish was an executive director of the company.
He became a non-executive director on 1 May 2008 and ceased to be a director on 31 December 2008.
Throughout this period, he was non-executive chairman of RBS America and Citizens.
Mr Fish is a non-executive director of Textron Inc. and Tiffany & Co and retained the fees paid to him in this respect.
For 2008, he received remuneration from Textron Inc. of US$260,500, including deferred fees.
He received an annual fee of US$48,500 from Tiffany & Co. 6 Mr Fisher ceased to be a director on 21 November 2008 and will cease employment with the Group on 6 March 2009.
In line with its international assignment policy, costs such as additional tax and accommodation incurred as a result of Mr Fishers assignment to the Netherlands are met by the Group.
These additional costs are shown in Benefits above.
2 Retired as directors on 6 February 2009.
3 Mr Scotts senior independent director fee covered all Board and Board Committee work including Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee.
No director received any expense allowances chargeable to UK income tax or compensation for loss of office termination payment.
The non-executive directors did not receive any bonus payments or benefits.
RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 29 Summary remuneration report continued Medium Term Performance Plan Scheme interests at 1 January 2008 and the related market price on award in the table below have been restated to reflect the rights issue in June 2008 and the capitalisation issue in September 2008.
Unvested awards were waived on cessation and lapsed on 31 January 2009.
2 Awards held at 13 October 2008 when he ceased to be a director.
Subsequently Mr Cameron exercised his vested awards on 5 December 2008.
All outstanding awards will lapse when his employment with the company ends on 28 February 2009.
3 Awards held at 21 November 2008 when he ceased to be a director.
All unvested awards and any vested, but unexercised, awards will lapse when his employment with the company ends on 6 March 2009.
For any awards that have vested, participants holding option-based awards can exercise their right over the underlying share equivalents at any time up to ten years from the date of grant.
No variation was made to any of the terms of the plan during the year.
30 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Restricted Share Award Interests at 1 January 2008 and the related prices on award and vesting in the table below have been restated to reflect the rights issue in June 2008 and the capitalisation issue in September 2008.
2 These awards vest as to 1 3 on each of the first, second and third anniversary of award, subject to their terms.
3 Awards were granted to Mr Whittaker in lieu of unvested share awards from his previous employer.
4 The end period for qualifying conditions is subject to any restrictions on dealing in the Groups shares which may be in place and to which Mr Whittaker may be subject.
As a result of the close period prior to the announcement of the Groups results, the end of the period for qualifying conditions to be fulfilled in 2009 is 26 February 2009.
5 Award has now vested and shares will be released to Mr Whittaker on 26 February 2009.
Citizens Long Term Incentive Plan 1 Benefits received from awards Interests at 1 January 2008 vested during the year Interests at 31 December 2008 Mr Fish LTIP awards for the 3 year periods: 01.01.05 31.12.07 nil 01.01.06 31.12.08 nil 2 01.01.07 31.12.09 nil 2 Notes: 1 This cash LTIP was approved by shareholders at the companys Annual General Meeting in April 2005.
Performance is measured on a combination of growth in Profit before tax and Relative Return on Equity based on a comparison of Citizens with comparator US banks.
2 When Mr Fish stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2008, under the terms of the Citizens LTIP, his outstanding awards vested, subject to pro-rating for the elapsed proportion of the performance period and for performance to date.
As a result, there was nil vesting for all awards.
RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 31 Financial results Summary financial statement The company has also complied with the Financial Reporting Council Important note Guidance on Audit Committees issued in October 2008 in all material This summary financial statement is a summary of information in the respects.
It does not contain sufficient information to allow for a full understanding of the results of the Group Under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 the Act, specific standards or of the state of affairs of the company.
For further information, the of corporate governance and business and financial disclosures apply 2008 R&A, the auditors report on those accounts and the report of the to companies with securities registered in the US.
The company directors should be consulted.
A copy of the R&A may be obtained, complies with all applicable sections of the Act.
free of charge, from the companys registrar at the address shown on the inside back cover.
Summary directors report Activities and business review Shareholders who wish to receive the R&A may also complete if they A review of the activities and business of the Group for the year ended have not done so previously the request card which accompanies this 31 December 2008, of recent events and of likely future developments document and return it to the companys registrar.
Corporate governance Going concern The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance, The accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 have been business integrity and professionalism in all its activities.
prepared on a going concern basis.
The directors have reviewed the Groups forecasts, projections and other relevant evidence including the Throughout the year ended 31 December 2008, the company has ongoing measures from governments and central banks in the UK and complied with all of the provisions of the Combined Code issued by the around the world to sustain the banking sector.
Whilst the Group has Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Code except in relation received no guarantees, the directors have a reasonable expectation, to the provision that the Remuneration Committee should have based on experience to date, of continued and sufficient access to delegated responsibility for setting remuneration for the Chairman and these funding facilities and, accordingly, that the Group will continue in executive directors.
The company considers that this is a matter which operational existence for the foreseeable future.
should rightly be reserved for the Board.
No director is involved in decisions regarding his or her own remuneration.
Directors Photographs and biographical details of the directors are shown on During the period following the changes to the Board on 6 February pages 24 and 25.
2009 and the date of this Report, the company has not had a senior independent director and the Remuneration Committee has comprised Report of the auditors two independent non-executive directors and the Chairman of the The auditors report on the full accounts for the year ended Board, not the three independent non-executive directors required by 31 December 2008 was unqualified and did not include a statement the Code.
The Board is in the process of recruiting three additional under sections 237 2 inadequate accounting records or returns or independent non-executive directors and plans to appoint a senior accounts not agreeing with records and returns or 237 3 failure to obtain independent director and an additional member of the Remuneration necessary information and explanations of the Companies Act 1985.
Committee as part of the recruitment process.
32 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 The following additional information is required to be disclosed by Part 7 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended.
Share capital Details of the ordinary and preference share capital as at 31 December 2008 are provided below.
Allotted, called up and fully paid Authorised m m Ordinary shares of 25p 9,864 11,151 Non-voting deferred shares of 0.01 27 323 Additional Value Shares of 0.01 27 Non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 23 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of US$0.01 Non-cumulative preference shares of 0.01 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of 0.01 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of 0.25 225 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of 0.01 Cumulative preference shares of 1 11 Non-cumulative preference shares of 1 6 300 Allotted, called up Number of shares thousands and fully paid Authorised Ordinary shares of 25p 39,456,005 44,603,278 Non-voting deferred shares of 0.01 2,660,556 32,300,000 Additional Value Shares of 0.01 2,700,000 Non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 308,015 516,000 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of US$0.01 1,000 3,900 Non-cumulative preference shares of 0.01 2,526 66,000 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of 0.01 3,000 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of 0.25 900,000 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of 0.01 200 1,000 Cumulative preference shares of 1 900 900 Non-cumulative preference shares of 1 5,750 300,000 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 33 Financial results continued The rights and obligations attaching to the companys ordinary shares There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the and preference shares are set out in the companys Articles of company other than certain restrictions which may from time to time be Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority certain employees of the company require the approval of the company to deal On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company every holder in the companys shares.
of ordinary shares and cumulative preference shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote.
On a poll, every A number of the companys share plans include restrictions on transfer holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to of shares while the shares are subject to the plans, in particular the vote shall have one vote for every share held.
On a poll holders of Employee Share Ownership Plan.
cumulative preference shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have four votes for every share held.
The Notice of the Non-cumulative preference shares Annual General Meeting specifies the deadlines for exercising voting Non-cumulative preference shares entitle the holders thereof subject to rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions the terms of issue to receive periodic non-cumulative cash dividends at to be passed at the meeting.
specified fixed rates for each Series payable out of distributable profits of the company.
The cumulative preference shares represent less than 0.01% of the total voting rights of the company, the remaining being represented by the The non-cumulative preference shares are redeemable at the option of ordinary shares.
the company, in whole or in part from time to time at the rates detailed below plus dividends otherwise payable for the then current dividend period accrued to the date of redemption.
Number Redemption Redemption of shares Interest date on price Debt or Class of preference share in issue rate or after per share equity 1 Non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 Series F 8 million 7.65% 31 March 2007 US$25 Debt Series H 12 million 7.25% 31 March 2004 US$25 Debt Series L 34 million 5.75% 30 September 2009 US$25 Debt Series M 37 million 6.4% 30 September 2009 US$25 Equity Series N 40 million 6.35% 30 June 2010 US$25 Equity Series P 22 million 6.25% 31 December 2010 US$25 Equity Series Q 27 million 6.75% 30 June 2011 US$25 Equity Series R 26 million 6.125% 30 December 2011 US$25 Equity Series S 38 million 6.6% 30 June 2012 US$25 Equity Series T 64 million 7.25% 31 December 2012 US$25 Equity Series U 15,000 7.64% 29 September 2017 US$100,000 Equity Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of US$0.01 Series 1 1 million 9.118% 31 March 2010 US$1,000 Debt Non-cumulative preference shares of 0.01 Series 1 1.25 million 5.5% 31 December 2009 1,000 Equity Series 2 1.25 million 5.25% 30 June 2010 1,000 Equity Series 3 26,000 7.0916% 29 September 2017 50,000 Equity Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of 0.01 Series 1 200,000 7.387% 31 December 2010 1,000 Debt Non-cumulative preference shares of 1 Series 1 750,000 8.162% 5 October 2012 1,000 Equity Series 2 5 million 12% 2 December 2013 1,000 Equity Note: 1 Those preference shares where the Group has an obligation to pay dividends are classified as debt: those where distributions are discretionary are classified as equity.
The conversion rights attaching to the convertible preference shares may result in the Group delivering a variable number of equity shares to preference shareholders: these convertible preference shares are treated as debt.
2 The whole of each series of preference share is issued or redeemed at the same time.
34 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 In the event that the non-cumulative convertible preference shares are and to attend the general meeting of shareholders at which such not redeemed on or before the redemption date, the holder may convert resolution is to be proposed and are entitled to speak and vote on such them into ordinary shares in the company.
resolution but not on any other resolution.
In addition, in the event that, prior to any general meeting of shareholders, the company has failed to Under existing arrangements, no redemption or purchase of any nonpay in full the three most recent quarterly dividend payments due on the cumulative preference shares may be made by the company without the non-cumulative dollar preference shares other than series U, the two prior consent of the UK Financial Services Authority.
most recent semi-annual dividend payments due on the non-cumulative convertible dollar preference shares and the most recent dividend On a winding-up or liquidation of the company, the holders of the nonpayments due on the non-cumulative euro preference shares, the noncumulative preference shares will be entitled to receive, out of any cumulative sterling preference shares, the series U non-cumulative surplus assets available for distribution to the companys shareholders dollar preference shares and the non-cumulative convertible sterling after payment of arrears of dividends on the cumulative preference preference shares, the holders shall be entitled to receive notice of, shares up to the date of repayment pari passu with the cumulative attend, speak and vote at such meeting on all matters together with the preference shares, and all other shares of the company ranking pari holders of the ordinary shares.
In these circumstances only, the rights of passu with the non-cumulative preference shares as regards the holders of the non-cumulative preference shares to vote shall participation in the surplus assets of the company, a liquidation continue until the company shall have resumed the payment in full of distribution per share equal to the applicable redemption price detailed the dividends in arrears.
in the table above, together with an amount equal to dividends for the then current dividend period accrued to the date of payment, before The series 2 non-cumulative preference shares of 1 each were issued any distribution or payment may be made to holders of the ordinary to HM Treasury.
The company, subject to shareholder approval, intends shares as regards participation in the surplus assets of the company.
to issue new ordinary shares by way of an open offer, the proceeds from which will be used to repay the preference shares, issued to HM Except as described above, the holders of the non-cumulative Treasury, together with the accrued dividend.
preference shares have no right to participate in the surplus assets of the company.
Authority to repurchase shares At the Annual General Meeting in 2008, shareholders renewed the Holders of the non-cumulative preference shares are not entitled to authority for the company to make market purchases of up to receive notice of or attend general meetings of the company except if 1,000,710,085 ordinary shares.
The directors have not used this any resolution is proposed for adoption by the shareholders of the authority to date and there is no current intention that the authority will company to vary or abrogate any of the rights attaching to the nonbe exercised.
This authority will lapse at the conclusion of the AGM of cumulative preference shares or proposing the winding-up or liquidation the company in 2009 and no renewal will be sought.
In any such case, they are entitled to receive notice of Shareholdings The table below shows the shareholders that have notified the Group that they hold more than 3% of the voting rights in the undernoted classes of shares as at 31 December 2008.
Number of shares % held Number of shares % held 1 Ordinary shares: 5 2% cumulative preference shares: Solicitor For The Affairs of Mr P S and Mrs J M Allen: Her Majestys Treasury Miss C L Allen, and Miss J C Allen 112,949 28.23 As Nominee for Commercial Union Assurance plc 91,429 22.86 Her Majestys Treasury 22,853,798,818 57.92 Bassett-Patrick Securities Limited 1 46,255 11.56 11% cumulative preference shares: E M Behrens Charitable Trust 20,000 5.00 Guardian Royal Exchange Assurance plc 129,830 25.97 Trustees of The Stephen Cockburn Windsor Life Assurance Company Limited 51,510 10.30 Limited Pension Scheme 19,879 4.97 Cleaning Tokens Limited 25,500 5.10 Mrs Gina Wild 19,800 4.95 Mr S J and Mrs J A Cockburn 15,520 3.10 Miss Elizabeth Hill 16,124 4.03 Mr Stephen J Cockburn 15,290 3.06 Mr W T Hardison Jr. 13,532 3.38 Note: 1 1 Notification has been received on behalf of Mr A W R Medlock and Mrs H M Medlock that they each have an interest in the holding of 5 2% cumulative preference shares registered in the name of Bassett-Patrick Securities Limited noted above and that there are further holdings of 5,300 and 5,000 shares, respectively, of that class registered in each of their names.
RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 35 Financial results continued The company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders Under the companys Articles of Association all directors must resign that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting and seek re-election by shareholders at least once every three years.
There are no persons holding securities carrying special rights Any non-executive directors who have served for more than nine years with regard to control of the company.
will also stand for annual re-election and the Board will consider their independence at that time.
The proposed re-election of directors is Under the rules of certain employee share plans eligible employees are subject to prior review by the Board.
entitled to acquire shares in the company and shares are held in trust for participants by The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Ulster Bank The companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a Dublin Trust Company as Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised by the special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Trustees on receipt of participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the Trustee no vote is registered.
A change of control of the company following a takeover bid may cause a number of agreements to which the company is party to take effect, The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 2001 Employee Share Trust, The alter or terminate.
In addition, a number of executive directors' service Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 2007 US Employee Share Trust and agreements may be affected on a change of control.
All of the The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 1992 Employee Share Trust hold shares companys employee share plans contain provisions relating to a on behalf of the Groups employee share plans.
The voting rights are change of control.
Outstanding awards and options may vest and exercisable by the Trustees: however, in accordance with investor become exercisable on change of control, subject where appropriate to protection guidelines, the Trustees abstain from voting.
The Trustees the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time and prowould take independent advice before accepting any offer in respect of rating of awards.
In the context of the company as a whole, these their shareholdings for the company in a takeover bid situation.
agreements are not considered to be significant.
Independent auditors statement to the members of We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Summary Financial Statements as described in the contents section, We have examined the summary financial statement which comprises and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any the summary consolidated income statement, the summary apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary consolidated balance sheet, the summary directors report and the financial statement.
Basis of opinion This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in We conducted our work in accordance with bulletin 1999 6 The accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work has auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Our report on those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and the companys full annual financial statements describes the basis of for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not our audit opinion on those financial statements and the part of the accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, for our audit report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion In our opinion, the summary financial statement is consistent with the full Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors annual accounts, the directors report and the directors remuneration The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review and report of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc for the year ended 31 Summary Financial Statement in accordance with United Kingdom law.
December 2008 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and the regulations made Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of thereunder.
the summary financial statement within the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement with the full annual accounts, the directors report and the directors remuneration report, and its Deloitte LLP compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
Edinburgh 25 February 2009 36 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Summary consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2008 2008 2007 m m Net interest income 18,675 12,069 Non-interest income excluding net insurance premium income 867 12,210 Insurance net premium income 6,326 6,087 Non-interest income 7,193 18,297 Total income 25,868 30,366 Administrative expenses 50,879 12,010 Depreciation and amortisation 3,154 1,932 Operating expenses 54,033 13,942 Loss profit before other operating charges and impairment 28,165 16,424 Insurance net claims 4,430 4,624 Impairment 8,072 1,968 Operating loss profit before tax 40,667 9,832 Tax 2,323 2,044 Profit loss from discontinued operations, net of tax 3,971 76 Loss profit for the year 34,373 7,712 Loss profit attributable to: Minority interests 10,832 163 Other owners 596 246 Ordinary shareholders 24,137 7,303 34,373 7,712 Basic earnings per 25p ordinary share 1 145.7p 64.0p Diluted earnings per 25p ordinary share 1 145.7p 63.4p Integration and restructuring costs included in operating expenses comprise: 2008 2007 m m Administrative expenses 1,321 48 Depreciation and amortisation 36 60 1,357 108 Note: 1 Prior year per share data have been restated to reflect the rights issue in June 2008 and the capitalisation issue in September 2008.
2008 2007 Directors remuneration 000 000 Non-executive directors emoluments 1,408 1,081 Chairman and executive directors emoluments 7,132 16,461 contributions and allowances in respect of defined contribution pension schemes 3 30 8,543 17,572 amounts receivable under long-term incentive plans 646 1,839 gains on exercise of share options 77 1,474 9,266 20,885 Retirement benefits are accruing to one director 2007 five under defined benefit schemes.
No directors 2007 one are accruing benefits under defined contribution schemes.
RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 37 Financial results continued Summary consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2008 2008 2007 m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 12,400 17,866 Loans and advances to banks 138,197 219,460 Loans and advances to customers 874,722 828,538 Debt securities 267,549 294,656 Equity shares 26,330 53,026 Settlement balances 17,832 16,589 Derivatives 992,559 277,402 Intangible assets 20,049 49,916 Property, plant and equipment 18,949 18,745 Deferred taxation 7,082 3,119 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 24,402 15,662 Assets of disposal groups 1,581 45,850 Total assets 2,401,652 1,840,829 Liabilities Deposits by banks 258,044 312,294 Customer accounts 639,512 682,363 Debt securities in issue 300,289 274,172 Settlement balances and short positions 54,277 91,021 Derivatives 971,364 272,052 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 31,482 34,208 Retirement benefit liabilities 2,032 460 Deferred taxation 4,165 5,400 Insurance liabilities 9,976 10,162 Subordinated liabilities 49,154 38,043 Liabilities of disposal groups 859 29,228 Total liabilities 2,321,154 1,749,403 Minority interests 21,619 38,388 Equity owners 58,879 53,038 Total equity 80,498 91,426 Total liabilities and equity 2,401,652 1,840,829 Memorandum items Contingent liabilities and commitments 433,261 400,099 At 31 December 2008, provisions for loan impairment amounted to 11,016 million 2007 6,452 million.
The summary financial statement on pages 32 to 38 was approved by the Board of directors on 25 February 2009.
Philip Hampton Stephen Hester Guy Whittaker Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 38 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Shareholder information Analyses of ordinary shareholders at 31 December 2008 Number of shares Shareholdings millions % Individuals 195,459 982.9 2.5 Banks and nominee companies 28,242 37,496.0 95.0 Investment trusts 179 7.0 Insurance companies 283 7.8 Other companies 2,131 893.6 2.3 Pension trusts 46 30.2 0.1 Other corporate bodies 88 38.5 0.1 226,428 39,456.0 100.0 Range of shareholdings: 1 1,000 75,566 31.9 0.1 1,001 10,000 123,493 441.6 1.1 10,001 100,000 25,347 557.7 1.4 100,001 1,000,000 1,192 385.8 1.0 1,000,001 10,000,000 613 2,106.5 5.3 10,000,001 and over 217 35,932.5 91.1 226,428 39,456.0 100.0 Financial calendar Annual General Meeting 3 April 2009 at 1pm Edinburgh International Conference Centre, The Exchange, Morrison Street, Edinburgh Interim results 7 August 2009 Dividends Payment dates: Cumulative preference shares 29 May and 31 December 2009 Non-cumulative preference shares 31 March, 30 June, 30 September and 31 December 2009 Ex-dividend dates: Cumulative preference shares 29 April 2009 Record dates: Cumulative preference shares 1 May 2009 Corporate Responsibility Report Dividend payments If you wish to obtain a copy please contact: The company pays its dividends in pounds sterling although shareholders may choose to receive payment in US dollars or euros.
Corporate Responsibility Shareholders wishing to receive payment in either US dollars or euros The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc should request an instruction form from the Companys Registrar: PO Box 1000 Gogarburn Computershare Investor Services PLC Edinburgh EH12 1HQ The Pavilions Bridgwater Road It is also available on our website at www.
com crreports Bristol BS99 6ZZ Telephone: 0870 702 0135 Investor Relations Fax: 0870 703 6009 Shareholders can access updated information on RBS via our website Email: web.
Shareholders may also download an instruction form via our website Shareholder enquiries www.
Completed instruction forms must be Shareholdings in the company may be checked by visiting our website returned to the Registrar no later than 15 working days before the www.
You will need the shareholder reference relevant dividend payment date.
number printed on your share certificate or tax voucher to gain access to this information.
RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 39 Shareholder information continued Braille and audio Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.
uk Shareholders requiring a Braille or audio version of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement should contact the Registrar on 0870 Capital gains tax 702 0135.
For shareholders who held RBS ordinary shares at 31 March 1982, the market value of one ordinary share held was 103p.
After adjusting for ShareGift the following: The company is aware that shareholders who hold a small number of shares may be retaining these shares because dealing costs make it the 1 March 1985 rights issue: uneconomical to dispose of them.
ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme is a free service operated by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation the 1 September 1989 capitalisation issue: registered charity 1052686 to enable shareholders to donate shares to charity.
the 12 July 2000 bonus issue of Additional Value Shares: Should you wish to donate your shares to charity in this way you should the 8 May 2007 bonus issue: contact ShareGift for further information: the 6 June 2008 rights issue: ShareGift, The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, 17 Carlton House Terrace, London SW1Y 5AH the 15 September 2008 capitalisation issue: and Telephone: 020 7930 3737 www.
org the basic entitlement under the 1 December 2008 open offer, Donating your shares in this way will not give rise to either a gain or a the adjusted 31 March 1982 base value of one ordinary share held loss for UK capital gains tax purposes and you may be able to reclaim currently is 73p.
UK income tax on gifted shares.
Further information can be obtained from HM Revenue & Customs.
For shareholders who held NatWest ordinary shares at 31 March 1982, Warning to shareholders boiler room scams the market value of one ordinary share held was 76.3p for shareholders Over the last year, many companies have become aware that their who accepted the basic terms of the RBS offer.
This takes account of shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence the following: concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often the August 1984 rights issue of NatWest ordinary shares: turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These the June 1986 rights issue of NatWest ordinary shares: brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive, and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has reported that the the June 1989 bonus issue of NatWest ordinary shares: average amount lost by investors is around 20,000. the 12 July 2000 bonus issue of Additional Value Shares: It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
the 8 May 2007 bonus issue: Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If the 6 June 2008 rights issue: you receive any unsolicited investment advice: the 15 September 2008 capitalisation issue: and Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation: the basic entitlement under the 1 December 2008 open offer.
Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting www.
uk register: The information set out above is intended as a general guide only and is based on current United Kingdom legislation and HM Revenue & Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or Customs practice as at this date.
This information deals only with the visiting www.
uk: and position of individual shareholders who are resident in the United Kingdom for tax purposes, who are the beneficial owners of their If the calls persist, hang up.
shares and who hold their shares as an investment.
It does not deal with the position of shareholders other than individual shareholders, If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive shareholders who are resident outside the United Kingdom for tax payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA purposes or certain types of shareholders, such as dealers in can be contacted by completing an online form at securities.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml Details of any share dealing facilities that the company endorses will be included in company mailings.
40 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Important addresses Shareholder enquiries Registrar Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ Telephone: 0870 702 0135 Facsimile: 0870 703 6009 Email: web.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Group Headquarters PO Box 1000 Gogarburn Edinburgh EH12 1HQ rbs.
