PROs beneficially owned by an individual, whose domicile is Exchange controls determined to be the United States for the purposes of the Estate Tax The company has been advised that there are currently no UK laws, Treaty and who is not a national of the UK, will not be subject to UK decrees or regulations which would prevent the import or export of inheritance tax on the individuals death or on a lifetime transfer of the capital, including the availability of cash or cash equivalents for use by PRO, except in certain cases where the PRO i is comprised in a the Group, or the remittance of dividends, interest or other payments to settlement unless, at the time of the settlement, the settlor was non-UK resident holders of the companys securities.
domiciled in the United States and was not a national of the UK : ii is part of the business property of a UK permanent establishment of an There are no restrictions under the Articles of Association of the enterprise: or iii pertains to a UK fixed base of an individual used for company or under UK law, as currently in effect, which limit the right of the performance of independent personal services.
The Estate Tax non-UK resident owners to hold or, when entitled to vote, freely to vote Treaty generally provides a credit against US federal estate or gift tax the companys securities.
liability for the amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case where the PRO is subject to both UK inheritance tax and US federal estate or gift tax.
Memorandum and Articles of Association The companys Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association Stamp duty and SDRT as in effect at the date of this annual report are registered with the No stamp duty, SDRT or similar tax is imposed in the UK on the issue, Registrar of Companies of Scotland.
The Articles of Association were transfer or redemption of the PROs.
last amended on 23 April 2008 and have been filed with the SEC.
Passive Foreign Investment Company considerations For a description of certain provisions of the companys Memorandum A foreign corporation will be a PFIC in any taxable year in which, after and Articles, see the Additional Information Memorandum and Articles taking into account the income and assets of the corporation and of Association section of the companys Annual Report on Form 20-F certain subsidiaries pursuant to applicable look-through rules, either i for the fiscal year ended 31 December 2007. at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or ii at least 50% of the average value of its assets is attributable to assets which Incorporation and registration produce passive income or are held for the production of passive The company was incorporated and registered in Scotland under the income.
The company does not believe that it was as a PFIC for its 2008 Companies Act 1948 as a limited company on 25 March 1968 under the taxable year.
Although interest income is generally passive income, a name National and Commercial Banking Group Limited.
On 10 March special rule allows banks to treat their banking business income as non- 1982, it changed its name to its present name and was registered under passive.
To qualify for this rule, a bank must satisfy certain requirements the Companies Acts 1948 to 1980 as a public company with limited regarding its licensing and activities.
The company believes that it liability.
The company is registered under Company No.
SC 45551. currently meets these requirements.
The companys possible status as a PFIC must be determined annually, however, and may be subject to Code of ethics change if the company fails to qualify under this special rule for any As discussed on page 149, the Group has adopted a code of conduct year in which a US Holder holds ordinary shares, non-cumulative dollar applicable to all Group employees, which will be provided to any person preference shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs.
If the without charge, upon request, by contacting Group Secretariat at the company were to be treated as a PFIC in any year during which a US telephone number listed on page 296.
Holder holds ordinary shares, non-cumulative dollar preference shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs, US Holders would generally be subject to adverse US federal income tax consequences.
Holders should consult their own tax advisers as to the potential application of the PFIC rules to the ownership and disposition of the companys ordinary shares, non-cumulative dollar preference shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 295
