Supervision The Groups US bank and non-bank subsidiaries and the Royal Banks United Kingdom US branches are also subject to supervision and regulation by a variety The UK Financial Services Authority FSA is the consolidated of other US regulatory agencies.
RBS Citizens, NA is supervised by the supervisor of the Group.
As at 31 December 2008, 31 companies in the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which is charged with the Group excluding subsidiaries of ABN AMRO, spanning a range of regulation and supervision of nationally chartered banks.
Citizens financial services sectors banking, insurance and investment Financial Group is under the supervision of the Federal Reserve as a business, were authorised to conduct financial activities regulated by bank holding company.
Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania is subject to the the FSA.
regulation and supervision of the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and the US Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
The Royal Banks The UK authorised banks in the Group include the Royal Bank, NatWest, New York branch is supervised by the New York State Banking Coutts & Co and Ulster Bank Limited.
Wholesale activities, other than Department, and its Connecticut branch is supervised by the Group Treasury activities, are concentrated in the Groups Global Connecticut Department of Banking.
Both branches are also subject to Markets division and are undertaken under the names of the Royal supervisory oversight by the Federal Reserve, through the Federal Bank and NatWest.
UK retail banking activities are managed by Reserve Bank of Boston.
The exception is Ulster Bank Limited, which is run as a separate division within the Group.
Ulster Bank Group will The Groups US insurance agencies are regulated by state insurance move to a single brand in the Republic of Ireland, with First Active authorities.
The Groups US broker dealer, Greenwich Capital Markets, merging with Ulster Bank.
Ulster Bank Limited provides banking Inc. is subject to regulation and supervision by the US Securities and services in Northern Ireland while the banking service in the Republic of Exchange Commission SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Ireland is provided by Ulster Bank Ireland Limited which is primarily Authority FINRA with respect to its securities activities.
The futures supervised by the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority.
activities of Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. are subject to regulation and oversight by the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission Investment management business is principally undertaken by CFTC and the Chicago Board of Trade CBOT.
The Group's US companies in the Regional Markets division, including Coutts & Co, commodities business, RBS Sempra Commodities, is primarily regulated Adam & Company Investment Management Limited, and in the Global by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC and CFTC.
Markets division through RBS Asset Management Limited.
The Group is subject to extensive regulations that impose obligations on General insurance business is principally undertaken by Direct Line financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and Insurance plc and Churchill Insurance Company Limited.
Life assurance controls to insure compliance with the rules and regulations to which business is principally undertaken by Royal Scottish Assurance plc and they are subject, in particular to detect, prevent and report money National Westminster Life Assurance Limited in partnership with Aviva plc.
laundering and terrorist financing and to ensure compliance with economic sanctions against designated foreign countries, nationals and United States others.
Anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism and economic sanctions The Group is both a bank holding company and a financial holding regulations have become a major focus of US government policy company within the meaning of the US Bank Holding Company Act of relating to financial institutions and are rigorously enforced by US 1956.
As such, it is subject to the regulation and supervision of the government agencies.
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System the Federal Reserve.
Among other things, the Groups direct and indirect activities Netherlands and investments in the United States are limited to those that are The consolidated supervisor of ABN AMRO is the Dutch Central Bank, financial in nature or incidental or complementary to a financial fide Nederlandsche Bank DNB.
The DNB operates as prudential activity, as determined by the Federal Reserve.
The Group is also supervisor of banks and insurance companies and also as part of the required to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before European System of Central Banks.
acquiring directly or indirectly, the ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of the voting shares of any US bank or holding company.
Other jurisdictions The Group operates in over 50 countries through a network of branches, Under current Federal Reserve policy, the Group is required to act as a local banks and non-bank subsidiaries.
source of financial strength for its US bank subsidiaries.
Among other things, this source of strength obligation could require the Group to inject capital into any of its US bank subsidiaries if any of them became undercapitalised.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 279
