Department of Justice investigation Major shareholders As previously disclosed by ABN AMRO, the United States Department Details of major shareholders of the companys ordinary and of Justice has been conducting a criminal investigation into ABN preference shares are given on page 152.
AMROs dollar clearing activities, Office of Foreign Assets Control compliance procedures and other Bank Secrecy Act compliance In December 2008, The Solicitor for the Affairs of Her Majestys matters.
ABN AMRO has cooperated and continues to cooperate fully Treasury acquired 22,854 million ordinary shares representing 57.92% with the investigation.
Prior to the acquisition by the Group, ABN AMRO of the companys issued ordinary share capital.
The ordinary had reached an agreement in principle with the Department of Justice shareholding of Legal & General Group plc decreased from 5.04% in that would resolve all presently known aspects of the ongoing December 2007 to below 3% in December 2008. investigation by way of a Deferred Prosecution Agreement in return for a settlement payment by ABN AMRO of US$500 million accrued by ABN Other than detailed above, there have been no significant changes in AMRO in its interim financial statements for the six months ended 30 the percentage ownership of major shareholders of the companys June 2007.
Negotiations are continuing to enable a written agreement ordinary and preference shares during the three years ended 25 to be concluded.
All shareholders within a class of the companys shares have the same voting rights.
Sub-prime exposures Certain of the Groups subsidiaries have received requests for At 25 February 2009, the directors of the company had options to information from various US governmental agencies and self-regulatory purchase a total of 3,073,445 ordinary shares of the company.
organisations including in connection with sub-prime mortgages and securitisations, collateralised debt obligations and synthetic products As at 31 December 2008, almost all of the companys US$ related to sub-prime mortgages.
In particular, during March 2008, the denominated preference shares and American Depositary Shares Group was advised by the SEC that it had commenced a non-public, representing ordinary shares were held by shareholders registered in formal investigation relating to the Groups US sub-prime securities the US.
All other shares were predominantly held by shareholders exposures and US residential mortgage exposures.
The Group and its registered outside the US.
subsidiaries are cooperating with these various requests for information and investigations.
Material contracts The company and its subsidiaries are party to various contracts in the The outcome of these reviews is outside the Groups control and it is ordinary course of business.
Material contracts include the following: not possible to predict the effect, if any, on the Groups operations of future regulatory actions or policy changes.
Consortium and Shareholders Agreement CSA On 28 May 2007, Fortis, the company, Santander and RFS Holdings Other jurisdictions entered into the CSA.
Fortis Bank Nederland acceded to the CSA on 26 The Group is active in monitoring regulatory developments in each July 2007.
On 3 October 2008, the State of the Netherlands acquired country in which it operates to ensure internal policies are sufficient to Fortis Bank Nederland.
On 24 December 2008 the State of the ensure the effective management of regulatory risk.
Netherlands acceded to the CSA following its acquisition of the shares held by Fortis Bank Nederland in RFS Holdings pursuant to a Deed of Description of property and equipment Accession entered into between RFS Holdings, the company, Fortis The Group operates from a number of locations worldwide, principally Bank Nederland, Santander and the State of the Netherlands.
At 31 December 2008, the Royal Bank and NatWest had 651 governs the relationships amongst the parties thereto in relation to the and 1,628 retail branches, respectively, in the UK.
Ulster Bank and First acquisition by RFS Holdings of ABN AMRO.
The CSA details, inter alia, Active had a network of 295 branches and business centres in Northern the funding of RFS Holdings in connection with the acquisition of ABN Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
Citizens had 1,606 retail banking AMRO, the equity interests in RFS Holdings, the governance of RFS offices including in-store branches covering Connecticut, Delaware, Holdings both before and after the acquisition of ABN AMRO, the Illinois, Indiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Hampshire, New Jersey, arrangements for the transfer of certain ABN AMRO businesses, assets New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Vermont.
A substantial and liabilities to the State of the Netherlands previously Fortis Bank majority of the UK branches are owned by the Royal Bank, NatWest and Nederland, the company and Santander post-acquisition of ABN their subsidiaries or are held under leases with unexpired terms of over AMRO, further funding obligations of the State of the Netherlands 50 years.
The Groups principal properties include its headquarters at previously Fortis Bank Nederland, the company and Santander after Gogarburn, Edinburgh, its principal offices in London at 135 and 280 the acquisition of ABN AMRO where funding is required by regulatory Bishopsgate and the Drummond House administration centre located at authorities in connection with the ABN AMRO businesses, the allocation South Gyle, Edinburgh.
of Core Tier 1 capital and the allocation of taxes and conduct of tax affairs.
Total capital expenditure on premises excluding investment properties, computers and other equipment in the year ended 31 December 2008 was 1,406 million 2007 1,792 million: 2006 1,140 million.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 281
