Department of Justice investigation Major shareholders As previously disclosed by ABN AMRO, the United States Department Details of major shareholders of the companys ordinary and of Justice has been conducting a criminal investigation into ABN preference shares are given on page 152.
AMROs dollar clearing activities, Office of Foreign Assets Control compliance procedures and other Bank Secrecy Act compliance In December 2008, The Solicitor for the Affairs of Her Majestys matters.
ABN AMRO has cooperated and continues to cooperate fully Treasury acquired 22,854 million ordinary shares representing 57.92% with the investigation.
Prior to the acquisition by the Group, ABN AMRO of the companys issued ordinary share capital.
The ordinary had reached an agreement in principle with the Department of Justice shareholding of Legal & General Group plc decreased from 5.04% in that would resolve all presently known aspects of the ongoing December 2007 to below 3% in December 2008. investigation by way of a Deferred Prosecution Agreement in return for a settlement payment by ABN AMRO of US$500 million accrued by ABN Other than detailed above, there have been no significant changes in AMRO in its interim financial statements for the six months ended 30 the percentage ownership of major shareholders of the companys June 2007.
Negotiations are continuing to enable a written agreement ordinary and preference shares during the three years ended 25 to be concluded.
All shareholders within a class of the companys shares have the same voting rights.
Sub-prime exposures Certain of the Groups subsidiaries have received requests for At 25 February 2009, the directors of the company had options to information from various US governmental agencies and self-regulatory purchase a total of 3,073,445 ordinary shares of the company.
organisations including in connection with sub-prime mortgages and securitisations, collateralised debt obligations and synthetic products As at 31 December 2008, almost all of the companys US$ related to sub-prime mortgages.
In particular, during March 2008, the denominated preference shares and American Depositary Shares Group was advised by the SEC that it had commenced a non-public, representing ordinary shares were held by shareholders registered in formal investigation relating to the Groups US sub-prime securities the US.
All other shares were predominantly held by shareholders exposures and US residential mortgage exposures.
The Group and its registered outside the US.
subsidiaries are cooperating with these various requests for information and investigations.
Material contracts The company and its subsidiaries are party to various contracts in the The outcome of these reviews is outside the Groups control and it is ordinary course of business.
Material contracts include the following: not possible to predict the effect, if any, on the Groups operations of future regulatory actions or policy changes.
Consortium and Shareholders Agreement CSA On 28 May 2007, Fortis, the company, Santander and RFS Holdings Other jurisdictions entered into the CSA.
Fortis Bank Nederland acceded to the CSA on 26 The Group is active in monitoring regulatory developments in each July 2007.
On 3 October 2008, the State of the Netherlands acquired country in which it operates to ensure internal policies are sufficient to Fortis Bank Nederland.
On 24 December 2008 the State of the ensure the effective management of regulatory risk.
Netherlands acceded to the CSA following its acquisition of the shares held by Fortis Bank Nederland in RFS Holdings pursuant to a Deed of Description of property and equipment Accession entered into between RFS Holdings, the company, Fortis The Group operates from a number of locations worldwide, principally Bank Nederland, Santander and the State of the Netherlands.
At 31 December 2008, the Royal Bank and NatWest had 651 governs the relationships amongst the parties thereto in relation to the and 1,628 retail branches, respectively, in the UK.
Ulster Bank and First acquisition by RFS Holdings of ABN AMRO.
The CSA details, inter alia, Active had a network of 295 branches and business centres in Northern the funding of RFS Holdings in connection with the acquisition of ABN Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
Citizens had 1,606 retail banking AMRO, the equity interests in RFS Holdings, the governance of RFS offices including in-store branches covering Connecticut, Delaware, Holdings both before and after the acquisition of ABN AMRO, the Illinois, Indiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Hampshire, New Jersey, arrangements for the transfer of certain ABN AMRO businesses, assets New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Vermont.
A substantial and liabilities to the State of the Netherlands previously Fortis Bank majority of the UK branches are owned by the Royal Bank, NatWest and Nederland, the company and Santander post-acquisition of ABN their subsidiaries or are held under leases with unexpired terms of over AMRO, further funding obligations of the State of the Netherlands 50 years.
The Groups principal properties include its headquarters at previously Fortis Bank Nederland, the company and Santander after Gogarburn, Edinburgh, its principal offices in London at 135 and 280 the acquisition of ABN AMRO where funding is required by regulatory Bishopsgate and the Drummond House administration centre located at authorities in connection with the ABN AMRO businesses, the allocation South Gyle, Edinburgh.
of Core Tier 1 capital and the allocation of taxes and conduct of tax affairs.
Total capital expenditure on premises excluding investment properties, computers and other equipment in the year ended 31 December 2008 was 1,406 million 2007 1,792 million: 2006 1,140 million.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 281 Additional information continued Standby underwriting commitment letter Sale of Tesco Personal Finance On 28 May 2007, the company and Merrill Lynch International entered On 28 July 2008, the company announced that it had agreed to sell its into a standby underwriting commitment letter, pursuant to which Merrill 50 per cent.
shareholding in Tesco Personal Finance to its joint venture Lynch International undertook to underwrite one or more issues by the partner Tesco plc for a cash consideration of 950 million, subject to company of securities eligible to be treated as part of its innovative or transaction adjustments.
As part of this transaction, the Group will non-innovative Tier 1 capital and or convertible securities convertible continue to provide certain commercial services to Tesco Personal into Ordinary Shares, the proceeds of which would be used to finance Finance post-completion.
The sale completed on 19 December 2008. part of the cash portion of consideration payable to ABN AMRO shareholders upon settlement of the offers for shares in ABN AMRO.
First Placing and Open Offer Agreement The aggregate amount of Merrill Lynch Internationals standby Pursuant to a placing and open offer agreement effective as of 13 underwriting commitment was6.2 billion.
Pursuant to the letter, the October 2008 entered into between the company, UBS, Merrill Lynch company agreed to pay certain fees and expenses to Merrill Lynch International and HM Treasury, i the company agreed to invite International in consideration for its standby commitment.
qualifying shareholders to apply to acquire new Shares at the issue price of 65.5 pence by way of the First Open Offer, ii UBS and Merrill Agreement with Bank of America for the sale of LaSalle Lynch International were appointed as joint sponsors, joint bookrunners On 22 April 2007, ABN AMRO Bank and Bank of America entered into and joint placing agents and agreed to use reasonable endeavours to an agreement for the sale by ABN AMRO Bank to Bank of America of procure placees to acquire the new Shares at not less than the issue all of the outstanding shares of common stock of ABN AMRO North price of 65.5 pence on such terms as agreed by HM Treasury on the America Holding Company ABN AMRO North America, a Delaware basis that the new Shares placed were subject to clawback to the corporation whose subsidiaries include LaSalle.
The consideration for extent they were taken up under the Open Offer and iii HM Treasury the shares was US$21 billion, subject to a potential purchase price agreed that, to the extent not placed or taken up under the First Open adjustment if ABN AMRO Banks estimate of the net income of ABN Offer and subject to the terms and conditions set out in the First Placing AMRO North America for the pre-closing period was less than a and Open Offer Agreement, HM Treasury would acquire such new specified income threshold.
The agreement also provided for Shares itself at the issue price of 65.5 pence.
approximately US$6 billion owed by ABN AMRO North America to other members of the ABN AMRO group to be converted into common stock In consideration of its services under the First Placing and Open Offer of ABN AMRO North America.
ABN AMRO Bank gave certain Agreement, HM Treasury was paid i a commission of 0.5 per cent.
of representations and warranties to Bank of America, including, inter alia, the aggregate value of the new Shares at the issue price of 65.5 pence as to title to the shares, authority and capacity to enter into the per new Share payable on Admission as defined in the First Placing agreement, financial statements, tax and employee benefits.
The and Open Offer Agreement and the second business day after the day warranties given by ABN AMRO Bank were repeated on closing of the on which the First Placing and Open Offer Agreement terminated and agreement.
ABN AMRO Bank is liable to indemnify and hold harmless ii a further commission of 1 per cent.
of the aggregate value of the Bank of America for damages arising out of certain specified events, new Shares acquired by placees including HM Treasury at the issue including breach of any covenant that survives closing.
price of 65.5 pence per new Share payable on Admission as defined in the First Placing and Open Offer Agreement.
The company paid all Underwriting agreement legal and other costs and expenses of HM Treasury, those of UBS and On 22 April 2008, the company, Goldman Sachs International, Merrill Merrill Lynch International properly incurred and the costs and Lynch International, UBS and the Royal Bank entered into an underwriting expenses of HM Treasurys financial advisers incurred in connection agreement, pursuant to which Merrill Lynch International, Goldman with the First Placing and Open Offer and the Preference Share Issue.
Sachs International and UBS agreed to procure subscribers for, or failing which themselves to subscribe for, Ordinary Shares not taken up under The company also bore all costs and expenses relating to the First the Rights Issue, in each case at the relevant issue price.
Pursuant to the Placing and Open Offer and the Preference Share Issue, including but underwriting agreement, the company agreed to pay certain fees and not limited to the fees and expenses of its professional advisers, the expenses to Merrill Lynch International, Goldman Sachs International and cost of preparation, advertising, printing and distribution of the First UBS in consideration for their underwriting commitment.
The company Placing and Open Offer prospectus and all other documents connected gave certain representations and warranties and indemnities to those with the First Placing and Open Offer and the Preference Share Issue, persons defined as underwriters in the Underwriting Agreement.
The the listing fees of the FSA, any charges by CREST and the fees of the liabilities of the company were uncapped as to time and amount.
London Stock Exchange and Euronext.
Sale of Angel Trains The company gave certain undertakings to HM Treasury in relation to On 6 August 2008, the company completed the sale of Angel Trains such matters as mortgage lending, lending to SMEs and Board Group to a consortium advised by Babcock & Brown for an enterprise remuneration.
These undertakings were aimed at ensuring that any state value of 3.6 billion.
aid involved in the potential acquisition of new Shares and the companys potential participation in the guarantee scheme to be promoted by HM Treasury as part of its support for the UK banking industry was compatible with the common market under EU law.
These constraints will cease to apply when, broadly, it is determined that the company is no longer in receipt of state aid.
282 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 The undertakings the company has given to HM Treasury included the Treasury at not less than the Issue Price on the basis that the New following: Shares placed will be subject to clawback to the extent they are taken up under the Open Offer and iii HM Treasury agreed that, to the extent no bonus will be awarded to any director for 2008 and any bonuses not placed or taken up under the Open Offer and subject to the terms earned by directors in respect of 2009 will be paid in restricted and conditions set out in the Placing and Open Offer Agreement, HM shares, remuneration will seek to reward long term value creation and Treasury will subscribe for such New Shares itself at the Issue Price.
not encourage excessive risk taking short term indicators will be taken into account only where fully consistent with long term value Pursuant to the terms of the Second Placing and Open Offer creation and not encouraging excessive risk taking and Directors Agreement, the aggregate proceeds of the Placing and Open Offer will who are dismissed will receive a severance package which is be used in full to fund the redemption on Admission of the Preference reasonable and perceived as fair: Shares held by HM Treasury at 101 per cent.
of their issue price 5,050,000,000 together with the accrued dividend on the Preference to work with HM Treasury on the appointment of up to three new Shares from and including 1 December 2008 to but excluding the date independent non-executive directors: of Admission and the commissions payable to HM Treasury under the Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement.
Should the proceeds of to maintain its SME and mortgage lending availability to at least 2007 the Placing and Open Offer be insufficient to fund the redemption of the levels until the end of 2011 with the active marketing of competitively Preference Shares, the company shall provide additional finance from priced loan products: its own resources and make use of its own reserves to enable such redemption to be effected in full.
to increase its support to shared equity projects until the end of 2009 in order to assist those in difficulties with their mortgage payments to In consideration of the provision of its services under the Second stay in their homes, either through individual bank schemes or paid Placing and Open Offer Agreement, the company shall pay to HM into a central fund run by industry: and Treasury i a commission of 0.5 per cent.
of the aggregate value of the New Shares at the Issue Price per New Share payable on the earlier of to publish an annual report, for each year until 2011, on its lending to Admission and the second Business Day after the day on which the SMEs and establish transparent public reporting on both SME and Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement is terminated and ii a mortgage lending as agreed with HM Treasury.
further commission of 1 per cent.
of the aggregate value of the New Shares subscribed for by Placees at the Issue Price per New Share In addition, the company agreed to limit its activities to the higher of: payable on the date of Admission.
i the annual rate of growth of UK nominal GDP in the preceding year: and ii the average historical growth of the balance sheets in the UK The company shall pay to each of HM Treasury, UBS and Merrill Lynch banking sector during the period 1987-2007, unless there is evidence International all legal and other costs and expenses properly incurred that the thresholds are exceeded for reasons unrelated to the provision in the case of UBS and Merrill Lynch International and those of HM of the aid.
HM Treasury agreed, in certain circumstances, to consult Treasurys financial advisers, incurred in connection with the Placing with the company with a view to making submissions to the European and Open Offer, the redemption of the Preference Shares or any Commission to obtain clarity as to the duration of the conditions and or arrangements referred to in the Second Placing and Open Offer seek their disapplication.
Sale of Bank of China investment The company shall also bear all costs and expenses relating to On 14 January 2009, pursuant to i a placing agreement entered into the Placing and Open Offer and the Preference Share Redemption, between the company, RBS China Investments Sarl a Luxembourg including but not limited to the fees and expenses of its professional incorporated subsidiary of the company and ABN AMRO Bank N. V. advisers, the cost of preparation, advertising, printing and distribution Hong Kong Branch, ii a placing agreement entered into between the of all documents connected with the Placing and Open Offer and the company, RBS China Investments Sarl, ABN AMRO Bank N. V. Hong Preference Share Redemption, the listing fees of the FSA, any charges Kong Branch and Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc, and iii a by CREST and the fees of the London Stock Exchange and Euronext.
share purchase agreement entered into between RBS China Investments Sarl.
Primestar Resource Holdings Limited and Orientmax The obligations of HM Treasury, UBS and Merrill Lynch International Capital Limited, the company through RBS China Investments Sarl.
under the Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement are subject to sold its entire 4.26 per cent.
stake in Bank of China for HKD18.4 billion.
certain conditions including, amongst others: Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement the passing of the Resolutions to be proposed at the General Pursuant to a placing and open offer agreement dated 19 January 2009 Meeting: entered into between the company, UBS, Merrill Lynch International and HM Treasury, i the company agreed to invite Qualifying Shareholders the obtaining of regulatory approvals: and to apply to subscribe for New Shares at the Issue Price by way of the Open Offer, ii UBS and Merrill Lynch International were appointed as Admission becoming effective by not later than 8.00 a. m. on 15 April joint sponsors, joint bookrunners and joint placing agents and agreed to 2009 or such later time and date as HM Treasury may agree.
use reasonable endeavours to procure Placees to subscribe for the New Shares on such terms as may be agreed by the Company and HM RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 283
