Additional information continued Certain of the conditions may be waived by HM Treasury at its Subscription and Transfer Agreements discretion.
Prior to Admission, HM Treasury may terminate the Second In connection with the First Placing and Open Offer, the company, Placing and Open Offer Agreement in certain circumstances.
On a Merrill Lynch International, UBS, Computershare and Encuentro Limited termination event arising, neither UBS nor Merrill Lynch International are entered into several agreements dated 4 November 2008, in respect of entitled to effect the termination of the Second Placing and Open Offer the subscription and transfer of ordinary shares and redeemable Agreement but each may terminate its obligations under the Second preference shares in Encuentro Limited.
Under the terms of these Placing and Open Offer Agreement.
agreements: On termination of appointment by UBS or Merrill Lynch International, the the company and UBS and or Merrill Lynch International agreed to Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement will continue to be in force acquire ordinary shares in Encuentro Limited and enter into put and as between the non-terminating parties.
call options in respect of the ordinary shares in Encuentro Limited subscribed for by UBS and or Merrill Lynch that were exercisable if HM Treasury is entitled to novate its rights under the Second Placing the Placing and Open Offer did not proceed: and Open Offer Agreement to any entity that is owned, directly or indirectly, by HM Treasury.
Merrill Lynch International or UBS, as applicable, agreed to apply monies received from Qualifying Shareholders, placees or HM The company has given certain representations and warranties and Treasury under the Placing and Open Offer to subscribe for indemnities to each of HM Treasury, UBS and Merrill Lynch International redeemable preference shares in Encuentro Limited to an aggregate under the Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement.
The liabilities of value equal to such monies, after deduction of the amount of certain the company are unlimited as to time and amount.
commissions and expenses: and The company also gave HM Treasury the following undertakings: the company agreed to allot and issue the New Shares to those persons entitled thereto in consideration of Merrill Lynch International to extend the lending commitments made to HM Treasury in the First or UBS, as applicable, transferring its holding of redeemable Placing and Open Offer Agreement in respect of the UK mortgage preference shares and ordinary shares in Encuentro Limited to and SME lending markets.
These commitments will now also apply to the company.
the companys lending to larger commercial and industrial companies in the United Kingdom: and Accordingly, instead of receiving cash as consideration for the issue of the New Shares, at the conclusion of the First Placing and Open Offer a commitment to increase the level at which competitively priced the company owned the entire issued ordinary and redeemable lending is made available and actively marketed by the Group in the preference share capital of Encuentro Limited whose only assets were United Kingdom by 6 billion.
its cash reserves, which represented an amount equivalent to the net proceeds of the First Placing and Open Offer.
The company was able to Preference Share Subscription Agreement utilise this amount equivalent to the First Placing and Open Offer net Pursuant to a preference share subscription agreement effective as of proceeds by exercising its right of redemption over the redeemable 13 October 2008 between the company and HM Treasury, HM Treasury preference shares it held in Encuentro Limited.
subscribed for, and the company allotted and issued to HM Treasury, the Preference Shares for a total consideration of 5 billion.
The company Qualifying Shareholders were not party to these arrangements and so and HM Treasury agreed that applications would be made to the UKLA did not acquire any direct right against Merrill Lynch International, UBS for the Preference Shares to be admitted to the Official List and to the and Computershare pursuant to these arrangements.
The company was London Stock Exchange for the Preference Shares to be admitted to responsible for enforcing the other parties obligations thereunder.
trading on the London Stock Exchange.
Pursuant to the Preference Share Subscription Agreement, the company agreed to pay the costs and FSA Listing Rules disclosure expenses of both parties in relation to the negotiation of the Preference With effect from 1 July 2008, the Group sold to Santander a related Share Subscription Agreement and the subscription for, and allotment and party for the purposes of the FSA Listing Rules its interests in the issue of, the Preference Shares including, without limitation, any stamp European Consumer Finance businesses in Germany and Austria for duty or stamp duty reserve tax.
HM Treasury was entitled to novate its 306 million.
rights under the Preference Share Subscription Agreement to any entity that is owned, directly or indirectly, by HM Treasury.
The Preference Share Subscription Agreement was conditional on the First Placing and Open Offer Agreement becoming unconditional in accordance with its terms.
284 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
