Basis of consolidation The accounts are prepared in accordance with International Financial The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Reporting Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards statements of the company and entities including certain special Board IASB and interpretations issued by the International Financial purpose entities that continue to be controlled by the Group its Reporting Interpretations Committee of the IASB together IFRS as subsidiaries.
Control exists where the Group has the power to govern adopted by the European Union EU.
The EU has not adopted the the financial and operating policies of the entity: generally conferred by complete text of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and holding a majority of voting rights.
On acquisition of a subsidiary, its Measurement: it has relaxed some of the standards hedging identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are included in the requirements.
The Group has not taken advantage of this relaxation and consolidated accounts at their fair value.
Any excess of the cost the fair has adopted IAS 39 as issued by the IASB: the Groups financial value of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the instruments issued by the Group plus any directly attributable costs of IASB.
The date of transition to IFRS for the Group and the company an acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired is The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and the date of their opening recognised as goodwill.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated IFRS balance sheets was 1 January 2004. at their share of the fair value of the subsidiarys net assets.
The Group adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments with effect from 1 The results of subsidiaries acquired are included in the consolidated January 2008.
Early adoption of IFRS 8 has not materially affected income statement from the date control passes up until the Group segmental disclosures.
ceases to control them through a sale or significant change in circumstances.
In October 2008, the IASB issued and, the European Union endorsed, amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are Measurement to permit the reclassification of financial assets out of eliminated on consolidation.
The consolidated accounts are prepared the held-for-trading HFT and available-for-sale AFS categories using uniform accounting policies.
Transfers must be made at fair value and this fair value becomes the instruments new cost or amortised cost.
Revenue recognition The amendments are effective from 1 July 2008.
Reclassifications Interest income on financial assets that are classified as loans and made before 1 November 2008 were backdated to 1 July 2008: receivables, available-for-sale or held-to-maturity and interest expense subsequent reclassifications were effective from the date the on financial liabilities other than those at fair value through profit or loss reclassification was made.
are determined using the effective interest method.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a The Group has reclassified certain loans and debt securities out of the financial asset or financial liability or group of financial assets or held-for-trading and available-for-sale categories into the loans and liabilities and of allocating the interest income or interest expense over receivables category.
It has also reclassified certain debt securities out the expected life of the asset or liability.
The effective interest rate is the of the held-for-trading category into the available-for-sale category.
The rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash flows to the balance sheet values of these assets, the effect of the reclassification instruments initial carrying amount.
Calculation of the effective interest on the income statement and the impairment losses relating to these rate takes into account fees payable or receivable, that are an integral assets are shown in Note 11 Financial instruments on page 208. part of the instruments yield, premiums or discounts on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and transaction costs.
All contractual terms The 2007 comparative amounts have been restated for the netting of of a financial instrument are considered when estimating future cash certain derivative asset and derivative liability balances with the London flows.
Clearing House as described in Note 13: the finalisation of the ABN AMRO acquisition accounting as set out in Note 34: and for the classification of Financial assets and financial liabilities held-for-trading or designated as Banco Real as a discontinued operation as described in Note 20. at fair value through profit or loss are recorded at fair value.
Changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss together with dividends and The Group is not required to include reconciliations of shareholders interest receivable and payable.
equity and net income under IFRS and US GAAP in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the US.
Commitment and utilisation fees are determined as a percentage of the outstanding facility.
If it is unlikely that a specific lending arrangement The company is incorporated in the UK and registered in Scotland.
will be entered into, such fees are taken to profit or loss over the life of The accounts are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the the facility otherwise they are deferred and included in the effective following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative interest rate on the advance.
financial instruments, held-for-trading financial assets and financial liabilities, financial assets and financial liabilities that are designated as at fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets and investment property.
Recognised financial assets and financial liabilities in fair value hedges are adjusted for changes in fair value in respect of the risk that is hedged.
The company accounts are presented in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
178 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Fees in respect of services are recognised as the right to consideration The results of discontinued operations are shown as a single amount on accrues through the provision of the service to the customer.
The the face of the income statement comprising the post-tax profit or loss arrangements are generally contractual and the cost of providing the of discontinued operations and the post-tax gain or loss recognised service is incurred as the service is rendered.
The price is usually fixed either on measurement to fair value less costs to sell or on the disposal and always determinable.
The application of this policy to significant fee of the discontinued operation.
A discontinued operation is a cashtypes is outlined below.
generating unit or a group of cash-generating units that either has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale, and a represents a Payment services: this comprises income received for payment separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, b services including cheques cashed, direct debits, Clearing House is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line Automated Payments the UK electronic settlement system and CHAPs of business or geographical area of operations or c is a subsidiary payments the automated clearing house that processes direct debits acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
These are generally charged on a per transaction basis.
The income is earned when the payment or transaction occurs.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits Charges for payment services are usually debited to the customers The Group provides post-retirement benefits in the form of pensions account monthly or quarterly in arrears.
Accruals are raised for services and healthcare plans to eligible employees.
provided but not charged at period end.
For defined benefit schemes, scheme liabilities are measured on an Card related services: fees from credit card business include: actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and discounted at a rate that reflects the current rate of return on a high quality corporate Commission received from retailers for processing credit and debit bond of equivalent term and currency to the scheme liabilities.
Scheme card transactions: income is accrued to the income statement as the assets are measured at their fair value.
Any surplus or deficit of scheme service is performed: assets over liabilities is recognised in the balance sheet as an asset surplus or liability deficit.
The current service cost and any past Interchange received: as issuer, the Group receives a fee service costs together with the expected return on scheme assets less interchange each time a cardholder purchases goods and services.
the unwinding of the discount on the scheme liabilities is charged to The Group also receives interchange fees from other card issuers for operating expenses.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in providing cash advances through its branch and Automated Teller the period in which they occur outside profit or loss and presented in Machine networks.
These fees are accrued once the transaction has the statement of recognised income and expense.
Contributions to taken place: and defined contribution pension schemes are recognised in the income statement when payable.
An annual fee payable by a credit card holder is deferred and taken to profit or loss over the period of the service i. e. 12 months.
Intangible assets and goodwill Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less Insurance brokerage: this is made up of fees and commissions accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is received from the agency sale of insurance.
Commission on the sale of charged to profit or loss over the assets estimated economic lives using an insurance contract is earned at the inception of the policy, as the methods that best reflect the pattern of economic benefits and is insurance has been arranged and placed.
However, provision is made included in depreciation and amortisation.
The estimated useful where commission is refundable in the event of policy cancellation in economic lives are as follows: line with estimated cancellations.
Core deposit intangibles 6 to 10 years Investment management fees: fees charged for managing investments Other acquired intangibles 5 to 10 years are recognised as revenue as the services are provided.
Incremental Computer software 3 to 5 years costs that are directly attributable to securing an investment management contract are deferred and charged as expense as the Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is written-off related revenue is recognised.
Direct costs relating to the development of internal-use computer software are capitalised once technical feasibility and Insurance premiums: see accounting policy 12. economic viability have been established.
These costs include payroll, the costs of materials and services, and directly attributable overheads.
Assets held for sale and discontinued operations Capitalisation of costs ceases when the software is capable of A non-current asset or disposal group is classified as held for sale if operating as intended.
During and after development, accumulated the Group will recover the carrying amount principally through a sale costs are reviewed for impairment against the projected benefits that transaction rather than through continuing use.
A non-current asset or the software is expected to generate.
Costs incurred prior to the disposal group classified as held for sale is measured at the lower of establishment of technical feasibility and economic viability are its carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
If the asset or expensed as incurred as are all training costs and general overheads.
disposal group is acquired as part of a business combination it is The costs of licences to use computer software that are expected to initially measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Assets and liabilities of generate economic benefits beyond one year are also capitalised.
disposal groups classified as held for sale and non-current assets classified as held for sale are shown separately on the face of the balance sheet.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 179 Accounting policies continued Acquired goodwill, being the excess of the cost of an acquisition over asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from those of the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, other assets or groups of assets, recoverable amount is determined for liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary, associate or joint the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable venture acquired, is initially recognised at cost and subsequently at cost amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value less cost to sell and its less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on the value in use.
Value in use is the present value of future cash flows from acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures is included in the balance the asset or cash-generating unit discounted at a rate that reflects sheet category Intangible assets and that on associates within their market interest rates adjusted for risks specific to the asset or cashcarrying amounts.
The gain or loss on the disposal of a subsidiary, generating unit that have not been reflected in the estimation of future associate or joint venture includes the carrying value of any related cash flows.
If the recoverable amount of an intangible or tangible asset goodwill.
is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss and the carrying value of the asset reduced On implementation of IFRS, the Group did not restate business by the amount of the loss.
A reversal of an impairment loss on combinations that occurred before January 2004.
Under previous GAAP, intangible assets excluding goodwill or property, plant and equipment goodwill arising on acquisitions after 1 October 1998 was capitalised is recognised as it arises provided the increased carrying value does and amortised over its estimated useful economic life.
Goodwill arising not exceed that which it would have been had no impairment loss been on acquisitions before 1 October 1998 was deducted from equity.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
carrying amount of goodwill in the Groups opening IFRS balance sheet 1 January 2004 was 13,131 million, its carrying value under previous 9.
Investment property comprises freehold and leasehold properties that are held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both.
Property, plant and equipment depreciated but is stated at fair value based on valuations by Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less independent registered valuers.
Fair value is based on current prices for accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Where an item of similar properties in the same location and condition.
Any gain or loss property, plant and equipment comprises major components having arising from a change in fair value is recognised in profit or loss.
Rental different useful lives, they are accounted for separately.
Property that is income from investment property is recognised on a straight-line basis being constructed or developed for future use as investment property is over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives granted are recognised as classified as property, plant and equipment and stated at cost until an integral part of the total rental income.
construction or development is complete, at which time it is reclassified as investment property.
Foreign currencies The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling Depreciation is charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis so as to which is the functional currency of the company.
write-off the depreciable amount of property, plant and equipment including assets owned and let on operating leases except investment Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the property see accounting policy 9 over their estimated useful lives.
foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary The depreciable amount is the cost of an asset less its residual value.
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated Land is not depreciated.
Estimated useful lives are as follows: into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are reported in Freehold and long leasehold buildings 50 years income from trading activities except for differences arising on cash Short leaseholds unexpired period flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Nonof the lease monetary items denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair Property adaptation costs 10 to 15 years value are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the Computer equipment up to 5 years dates the values were determined.
Translation differences arising on Other equipment 4 to 15 years non-monetary items measured at fair value are recognised in profit or loss except for differences arising on available-for-sale non-monetary Under previous GAAP, the Groups freehold and long leasehold property financial assets, for example equity shares, which are included in the occupied for its own use was recorded at valuation on the basis of available-for-sale reserve in equity unless the asset is the hedged item existing use value.
The Group elected to use this valuation as at 31 in a fair value hedge.
December 2003 2,391 million as deemed cost for its opening IFRS balance sheet 1 January 2004.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated into sterling 8.
Impairment of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling indication that its intangible assets, or property, plant and equipment at average exchange rates unless these do not approximate to the are impaired.
If any such indication exists, the Group estimates the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign recoverable amount of the asset and the impairment loss if any.
exchange differences arising on the translation of a foreign operation Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events are recognised directly in equity and included in profit or loss on its or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
180 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 11.
Leases Life assurance Contracts to lease assets are classified as finance leases if they transfer The Groups long-term assurance contracts include whole-life term substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to the assurance, endowment assurance, flexible whole-life, pension and customer.
Other contracts to lease assets are classified as operating annuity contracts that are expected to remain in force for an extended leases.
Long-term assurance contracts under which the Group does not accept significant insurance risk are classified as financial Finance lease receivables are stated in the balance sheet at the amount instruments.
of the net investment in the lease being the minimum lease payments and any unguaranteed residual value discounted at the interest rate The Group recognises the value of in-force long-term assurance implicit in the lease.
Finance lease income is allocated to accounting contracts as an asset.
Cash flows associated with in-force contracts and periods so as to give a constant periodic rate of return before tax on the related assets, including reinsurance cash flows, are projected, using net investment.
Unguaranteed residual values are subject to regular appropriate assumptions as to future mortality, persistency and levels of review to identify potential impairment.
If there has been a reduction in expenses and excluding the value of future investment margins, to the estimated unguaranteed residual value, the income allocation is estimate future surpluses attributable to the Group.
These surpluses, revised and any reduction in respect of amounts accrued is recognised discounted at a risk-adjusted rate, are recognised as a separate asset.
Changes in the value of this asset are included in profit or loss.
Rental income from operating leases is credited to the income Premiums on long-term insurance contracts are recognised as income statement on a receivable basis over the term of the lease.
Claims on long-term insurance contracts reflect the lease assets are included within Property, plant and equipment and cost of all claims arising during the year, including claims handling depreciated over their useful lives see accounting policy 7. costs.
Claims are recognised when the Group becomes aware of the claim.
Insurance General insurance Reinsurance General insurance comprises short-duration contracts, principally The Group has reinsurance treaties that transfer significant insurance property and liability insurance contracts.
Due to the nature of the risk.
Liabilities for reinsured contracts are calculated gross of products sold retail-based property and casualty, motor, home and reinsurance and a separate reinsurance asset recorded.
personal health insurance contracts the insurance protection is provided on an even basis throughout the term of the policy.
Provisions The Group recognises a provision for a present obligation resulting from Premiums from general insurance contracts are recognised in the a past event when it is more likely than not that it will be required to accounting period in which they begin.
Unearned premiums represent transfer economic benefits to settle the obligation and the amount of the the proportion of the net premiums that relate to periods of insurance obligation can be estimated reliably.
after the balance sheet date and are calculated over the period of exposure under the policy, on a daily basis, 24ths basis or allowing for Provision is made for restructuring costs, including the costs of the estimated incidence of exposure under policies which are longer redundancy, when the Group has a constructive obligation to than twelve months.
Provision is made where necessary for the restructure.
An obligation exists when the Group has a detailed formal estimated amount of claims over and above unearned premiums plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those including that in respect of future written business on discontinued lines affected by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main under the run-off of delegated underwriting authority arrangements.
provision is designed to meet future claims and related expenses and is calculated across related classes of business on the basis of a If the Group has a contract that is onerous, it recognises the present separate carry forward of deferred acquisition expenses after making obligation under the contract as a provision.
An onerous contract is one allowance for investment income.
where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under it exceed the expected economic benefits.
When the Group vacates a leasehold Acquisition expenses relating to new and renewed business for all property, a provision is recognised for the costs under the lease less classes are expensed over the period during which the premiums are any expected economic benefits such as rental income.
The principal acquisition costs so deferred are commissions payable, costs associated with the telesales and underwriting staff and Contingent liabilities are possible obligations arising from past events prepaid claims handling costs in respect of delegated claims handling whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain future events or arrangements for claims which are expected to occur after the balance present obligations arising from past events that are not recognised sheet date.
Claims and the related reinsurance are recognised in the because either an outflow of economic benefits is not probable or the accounting period in which the loss occurs.
Provision is made for the full amount of the obligation cannot be reliably measured.
Contingent cost of settling outstanding claims at the balance sheet date, including liabilities are not recognised but information about them is disclosed claims estimated to have been incurred but not yet reported at that unless the possibility of any outflow of economic benefits in settlement date, and claims handling expenses.
The related reinsurance receivable is remote.
is recognised at the same time.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 181 Accounting policies continued 14.
Taxation The principal category of financial assets designated as at fair value Provision is made for taxation at current enacted rates on taxable through profit or loss is policyholders assets underpinning insurance profits, arising in income or in equity, taking into account relief for and investment contracts issued by the Group's life assurance overseas taxation where appropriate.
Deferred taxation is accounted for businesses.
Fair value designation significantly reduces the in full for all temporary differences between the carrying amount of an measurement inconsistency that would arise if these assets were asset or liability for accounting purposes and its carrying amount for tax classified as available-for-sale.
purposes, except in relation to overseas earnings where remittance is controlled by the Group, and goodwill.
Loans and receivables non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable repayments that are not quoted in an active market are Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable classified as loans and receivables, except those that are classified as that they will be recovered.
available-for-sale or as held-for-trading, or designated as at fair value through profit or loss.
Loans and receivables are initially recognised at 15.
Financial assets fair value plus directly related transaction costs.
They are subsequently On initial recognition, financial assets are classified into held-to-maturity measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method see investments: available-for-sale financial assets: held-for-trading: accounting policy 3 less any impairment losses.
designated as at fair value through profit or loss: or loans and receivables.
Available-for-sale financial assets that are not classified as held-tomaturity: held-for-trading: designated as at fair value through profit or Held-to-maturity investments a financial asset may be classified as a loss: or loans and receivables, are classified as available-for-sale.
held-to-maturity investment only if it has fixed or determinable Financial assets can be designated as available-for-sale on initial payments, a fixed maturity and the Group has the positive intention and recognition.
Available-for-sale financial assets are initially recognised at ability to hold to maturity.
Held-to-maturity investments are initially fair value plus directly related transaction costs.
They are subsequently recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs.
They are measured at fair value.
Unquoted equity investments whose fair value subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest cannot be measured reliably are carried at cost and classified as method see accounting policy 3 less any impairment losses.
Impairment losses and exchange differences resulting from retranslating the amortised cost of foreign Held-for-trading a financial asset is classified as held-for-trading if it is currency monetary available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in acquired principally for sale in the near term, or forms part of a portfolio profit or loss together with interest calculated using the effective interest of financial instruments that are managed together and for which there method see accounting policy 3.
Other changes in the fair value of is evidence of short-term profit taking, or it is a derivative not in a available-for-sale financial assets are reported in a separate component qualifying hedge relationship.
Held-for-trading financial assets are of shareholders equity until disposal, when the cumulative gain or loss recognised at fair value with transaction costs being recognised in profit is recognised in profit or loss.
Subsequently they are measured at fair value.
Gains and losses on held-for-trading financial assets are recognised in profit or loss as Reclassifications held-for-trading and available-for-sale financial they arise.
assets that meet the definition of loans and receivables non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted Designated as at fair value through profit or loss financial assets may in an active market may be reclassified to loans and receivables if the be designated as at fair value through profit or loss only if such Group has the intention and ability to hold the financial asset for the designation a eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or foreseeable future or until maturity.
The Group typically regards the recognition inconsistency: or b applies to a group of financial assets, foreseeable future as twelve months from the date of reclassification.
financial liabilities or both, that the Group manages and evaluates on a Additionally, held-for-trading financial assets that do not meet the fair value basis: or c relates to an instrument that contains an definition of loans and receivables may, in rare circumstances, be embedded derivative which is not evidently closely related to the host transferred to available-for-sale financial assets or to held-to-maturity contract.
Financial assets that the Group designates on initial recognition as Regular way purchases of financial assets classified as loans and being at fair value through profit or loss are recognised at fair value, receivables are recognised on settlement date: all other regular way with transaction costs being recognised in profit or loss, and are purchases are recognised on trade date.
subsequently measured at fair value.
Gains and losses on financial assets that are designated as at fair value through profit or loss are Fair value for a net open position in a financial asset that is quoted in an recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
active market is the current bid price times the number of units of the instrument held.
Fair values for financial assets not quoted in an active market are determined using appropriate valuation techniques including discounting future cash flows, option pricing models and other methods that are consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing financial assets.
182 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 16.
Financial liabilities The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is any On initial recognition financial liabilities are classified into held-forobjective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets trading: designated as at fair value through profit or loss: or amortised classified as held-to-maturity, available-for-sale or loans and receivables cost.
A financial asset or portfolio of financial assets is impaired and an impairment loss incurred if there is objective evidence that an A financial liability is classified as held-for-trading if it is incurred event or events since initial recognition of the asset have adversely principally for repurchase in the near term, or forms part of a portfolio of affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset.
financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is evidence of short-term profit taking, or it is a derivative not in a Financial assets carried at amortised cost if there is objective qualifying hedge relationship.
Held-for-trading financial liabilities are evidence that an impairment loss on a financial asset or group of recognised at fair value with transaction costs being recognised in profit financial assets classified as loans and receivables or as held-toor loss.
Gains and losses maturity investments has been incurred, the Group measures the are recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
amount of the loss as the difference between the carrying amount of the asset or group of assets and the present value of estimated future Financial liabilities that the Group designates on initial recognition as cash flows from the asset or group of assets discounted at the effective being at fair value through profit or loss are recognised at fair value, interest rate of the instrument at initial recognition.
with transaction costs being recognised in profit or loss, and are subsequently measured at fair value.
Gains and losses on financial Impairment losses are assessed individually for financial assets that are liabilities that are designated as at fair value through profit or loss are individually significant and individually or collectively for assets that are recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
In making collective assessment of impairment, financial assets are grouped into portfolios on the basis of Financial liabilities may be designated as at fair value through profit or similar risk characteristics.
Future cash flows from these portfolios are loss only if such designation a eliminates or significantly reduces a estimated on the basis of the contractual cash flows and historical loss measurement or recognition inconsistency: or b applies to a group of experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics.
Historical financial assets, financial liabilities or both that the Group manages and loss experience is adjusted, on the basis of current observable data, to evaluates on a fair value basis: or c relates to an instrument that reflect the effects of current conditions not affecting the period of contains an embedded derivative which is not evidently closely related historical experience.
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss and the carrying The principal categories of financial liabilities designated as at fair value amount of the financial asset or group of financial assets reduced by through profit or loss are a structured liabilities issued by the Group: establishing an allowance for impairment losses.
If, in a subsequent designation significantly reduces the measurement inconsistency period, the amount of the impairment loss reduces and the reduction between these liabilities and the related derivatives carried at fair value: can be ascribed to an event after the impairment was recognised, the and b investment contracts issued by the Group's life assurance previously recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance.
Once businesses: fair value designation significantly reduces the an impairment loss has been recognised on a financial asset or group measurement inconsistency that would arise if these liabilities were of financial assets, interest income is recognised on the carrying measured at amortised cost.
amount using the rate of interest at which estimated future cash flows were discounted in measuring impairment.
All other financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method see accounting policy 3.
Financial assets carried at fair value when a decline in the fair value of a financial asset classified as available-for-sale has been recognised Fair value for a net open position in a financial liability that is quoted in directly in equity and there is objective evidence that the asset is an active market is the current offer price times the number of units of impaired, the cumulative loss is removed from equity and recognised in the instrument held or issued.
Fair values for financial liabilities not profit or loss.
The loss is measured as the difference between the quoted in an active market are determined using appropriate valuation amortised cost of the financial asset and its current fair value.
techniques including discounting future cash flows, option pricing Impairment losses on available-for-sale equity instruments are not models and other methods that are consistent with accepted economic reversed through profit or loss, but those on available-for-sale debt methodologies for pricing financial liabilities.
instruments are reversed, if there is an increase in fair value that is objectively related to a subsequent event.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 183 Accounting policies continued 18.
Capital instruments Provision is made for loan commitments, other than those classified as The Group classifies a financial instrument that it issues as a financial held-for-trading, if it is probable that the facility will be drawn and the asset, financial liability or an equity instrument in accordance with the resulting loan will be recognised at a value less than the cash substance of the contractual arrangement.
An instrument is classified advanced.
Syndicated loan commitments in excess of the level of as a liability if it is a contractual obligation to deliver cash or another lending under the commitment approved for retention by the Group are financial asset, or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities on classified as held-for-trading and measured at fair value.
An instrument is classified as equity if it evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after the 19.
The components of a compound financial A financial asset is derecognised when it has been transferred and the instrument issued by the Group are classified and accounted for transfer qualifies for derecognition.
A transfer requires that the Group separately as financial assets, financial liabilities or equity as either: a transfers the contractual rights to receive the assets cash appropriate.
flows: or b retains the right to the assets cash flows but assumes a contractual obligation to pay those cash flows to a third party.
Derivatives and hedging transfer, the Group assesses the extent to which it has retained the risks Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised, and and rewards of ownership of the transferred asset.
If substantially all subsequently measured, at fair value.
Derivative fair values are the risks and rewards have been retained, the asset remains on the determined from quoted prices in active markets where available.
If substantially all the risks and rewards have been Where there is no active market for an instrument, fair value is derived transferred, the asset is derecognised.
If substantially all the risks and from prices for the derivatives components using appropriate pricing or rewards have been neither retained nor transferred, the Group assesses valuation models.
whether or not it has retained control of the asset.
If it has not retained control, the asset is derecognised.
Where the Group has retained A derivative embedded in a contract is accounted for as a stand-alone control of the asset, it continues to recognise the asset to the extent of derivative if its economic characteristics are not closely related to the its continuing involvement.
economic characteristics of the host contract: unless the entire contract is carried at fair value through profit or loss.
A financial liability is removed from the balance sheet when the obligation is discharged, or cancelled, or expires.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of a derivative are recognised as they arise in profit or loss unless the derivative is the 20.
Sale and repurchase transactions hedging instrument in a qualifying hedge.
The Group enters into three Securities subject to a sale and repurchase agreement under which types of hedge relationship: hedges of changes in the fair value of a substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the recognised asset or liability or firm commitment fair value hedges : Group continue to be shown on the balance sheet and the sale hedges of the variability in cash flows from a recognised asset or proceeds recorded as a deposit.
Securities acquired in a reverse sale liability or a forecast transaction cash flow hedges : and hedges of the and repurchase transaction under which the Group is not exposed to net investment in a foreign operation.
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are not recognised on the balance sheet and the consideration is recorded in Loans and Hedge relationships are formally documented at inception.
The advances to banks or Loans and advances to customers as documentation includes identification of the hedged item and the appropriate.
hedging instrument, details the risk that is being hedged and the way in which effectiveness will be assessed at inception and during the period Securities borrowing and lending transactions are usually secured by of the hedge.
If the hedge is not highly effective in offsetting changes in cash or securities advanced by the borrower.
Borrowed securities are fair values or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk, consistent with not recognised on the balance sheet or lent securities derecognised.
the documented risk management strategy, hedge accounting is Cash collateral received or given is treated as a loan or deposit: discontinued.
collateral in the form of securities is not recognised.
However, where securities borrowed are transferred to third parties, a liability for the Fair value hedge in a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the obligation to return the securities to the stock lending counterparty is hedging instrument is recognised in profit or loss.
The gain or loss on recorded.
the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is recognised in profit or loss and adjusts the carrying amount of the hedged item.
Netting accounting is discontinued if the hedge no longer meets the criteria for Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount hedge accounting or if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, presented in the balance sheet when, and only when, the Group terminated or exercised or if hedge designation is revoked.
If the currently has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised hedged item is one for which the effective interest rate method is used, amounts: and it intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the any cumulative adjustment is amortised to profit or loss over the life of asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The Group is party to a the hedged item using a recalculated effective interest rate.
number of arrangements, including master netting agreements, that give it the right to offset financial assets and financial liabilities but Cash flow hedge where a derivative financial instrument is designated where it does not intend to settle the amounts net or simultaneously and as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or therefore the assets and liabilities concerned are presented gross.
liability or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective portion of 184 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in Critical accounting policies and key sources of estimation equity.
The ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss.
When the uncertainty forecast transaction results in the recognition of a financial asset or The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the accounting financial liability, the cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from equity in policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its the same periods in which the asset or liability affects profit or loss.
UK company law and IFRS require the directors, in Otherwise the cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and preparing the Groups financial statements, to select suitable recognised in profit or loss at the same time as the hedged transaction.
accounting policies, apply them consistently and make judgements and Hedge accounting is discontinued if the hedge no longer meets the estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
In the absence of an criteria for hedge accounting: if the hedging instrument expires or is applicable standard or interpretation, IAS 8 Accounting Policies, sold, terminated or exercised: if the forecast transaction is no longer Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, requires management to expected to occur: or if hedge designation is revoked.
On the develop and apply an accounting policy that results in relevant and discontinuance of hedge accounting except where a forecast reliable information in the light of the requirements and guidance in transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative unrealised IFRS dealing with similar and related issues and the IASBs Framework gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in profit or loss when the for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
The hedged cash flow occurs or, if the forecast transaction results in the judgements and assumptions involved in the Groups accounting recognition of a financial asset or financial liability, in the same periods policies that are considered by the Board to be the most important to during which the asset or liability affects profit or loss.
Where a forecast the portrayal of its financial condition are discussed below.
The use of transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative unrealised estimates, assumptions or models that differ from those adopted by the gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
Group would affect its reported results.
Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation in the hedge of a net Loan impairment provisions investment in a foreign operation, the portion of foreign exchange The Groups loan impairment provisions are established to recognise differences arising on the hedging instrument determined to be an incurred impairment losses in its portfolio of loans classified as loans effective hedge is recognised directly in equity.
Any ineffective portion is and receivables and carried at amortised cost.
A loan is impaired when recognised in profit or loss.
Non-derivative financial liabilities as well as there is objective evidence that events since the loan was granted have derivatives may be the hedging instrument in a net investment hedge.
affected expected cash flows from the loan.
The impairment loss is the difference between the carrying value of the loan and the present value 24.
Share-based payments of estimated future cash flows at the loans original effective interest rate.
The Group grants options over shares in The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc to its employees under various share option schemes.
The At 31 December 2008, gross loans and advances to customers totalled Group has applied IFRS 2 Share-based Payment to grants under these 885,611 million 2007 834,987 million and customer loan schemes after 7 November 2002 that had not vested on 1 January 2005. impairment provisions amounted to 10,889 million 2007 6,449 The expense for these transactions is measured based on the fair value million.
on the date the options are granted.
The fair value is estimated using valuation techniques which take into account the options exercise price, There are two components to the Groups loan impairment provisions: its term, the risk-free interest rate and the expected volatility of the individual and collective.
market price of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plcs shares.
Vesting conditions are not taken into account when measuring fair value, but are Individual component all impaired loans that exceed specific reflected by adjusting the number of options included in the thresholds are individually assessed for impairment.
Individually measurement of the transaction such that the amount recognised assessed loans principally comprise the Groups portfolio of reflects the number that actually vest.
The fair value is expensed on a commercial loans to medium and large businesses.
Impairment losses straight-line basis over the vesting period.
are recognised as the difference between the carrying value of the loan and the discounted value of managements best estimate of future cash 25.
Cash and cash equivalents repayments and proceeds from any security held.
These estimates take Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash and demand deposits with into account the customers debt capacity and financial flexibility: the banks together with short-term highly liquid investments that are readily level and quality of its earnings: the amount and sources of cash flows: convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of the industry in which the counterparty operates: and the realisable change in value.
value of any security held.
Estimating the quantum and timing of future recoveries involves significant judgement.
The size of receipts will 26.
Shares in Group entities depend on the future performance of the borrower and the value of The companys investments in its subsidiaries are stated at cost less security, both of which will be affected by future economic conditions: any impairment.
additionally, collateral may not be readily marketable.
The actual amount of future cash flows and the date they are received may differ from these estimates and consequently actual losses incurred may differ from those recognised in these financial statements.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 185 Accounting policies continued Collective component this is made up of two elements: loan Financial instruments measured at fair value include: impairment provisions for impaired loans that are below individual assessment thresholds collective impaired loan provisions and for loan Loans and advances held-for-trading and designated as at fair value losses that have been incurred but have not been separately identified though profit or loss principally comprise reverse repurchase at the balance sheet date latent loss provisions.
These are established agreements reverse repos and syndicated loans.
In repurchase on a portfolio basis using a present value methodology taking into agreements one party agrees to sell securities to another and account the level of arrears, security, past loss experience, credit simultaneously agrees to repurchase the securities at a future date for a scores and defaults based on portfolio trends.
The most significant specified price.
The repurchase price is fixed at the outset, usually factors in establishing these provisions are the expected loss rates and being the original sale price plus an amount representing interest for the the related average life.
These portfolios include credit card receivables period from the sale to the repurchase.
Syndicated loans measured at and other personal advances including mortgages.
The future credit fair value are amounts retained, from syndications where the Group was quality of these portfolios is subject to uncertainties that could cause lead manager or underwriter, in excess of the Groups intended long actual credit losses to differ materially from reported loan impairment term participation.
These uncertainties include the economic environment, notably interest rates and their effect on customer spending, the Debt securities held-for-trading, designated as at fair value though unemployment level, payment behaviour and bankruptcy trends.
profit or loss and available-for-sale debt securities include those issued by governments, municipal bodies, mortgage agencies and Pensions financial institutions as well as corporate bonds, debentures and The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes as residual interests in securitisations.
described in Note 4 on the accounts.
The assets of the schemes are measured at their fair value at the balance sheet date.
Scheme liabilities Equity securities held-for-trading, designated as at fair value though are measured using the projected unit method, which takes account of profit or loss and available-for-sale comprise equity shares of projected earnings increases, using actuarial assumptions that give the companies or corporations both listed and unlisted.
best estimate of the future cash flows that will arise under the scheme liabilities.
These cash flows are discounted at the interest rate Deposits by banks and customer accounts held-for-trading and applicable to high-quality corporate bonds of the same currency and designated as at fair value though profit or loss deposits measured term as the liabilities.
Any recognisable surplus or deficit of scheme at fair value principally include repurchase agreements repos assets over liabilities is recognised in the balance sheet as an asset discussed above and investment contracts issued by the Groups life surplus or liability deficit.
In determining the value of scheme assurance businesses.
liabilities, assumptions are made as to price inflation, dividend growth, pension increases, earnings growth and employees.
There is a range of Debt securities in issue held-for-trading and designated as at fair assumptions that could be adopted in valuing the schemes liabilities.
value though profit or loss measured at fair value and principally Different assumptions could significantly alter the amount of the surplus comprise medium term notes.
or deficit recognised in the balance sheet and the pension cost charged to the income statement.
The assumptions adopted for the Groups Short positions held-for-trading arise in dealing and market making pension schemes are set out in Note 4 on the accounts together with activities where debt securities and equity shares are sold which the the sensitivity of reported amounts to changes in those assumptions.
A Group does not currently possess.
pension asset of 36 million and a liability of 2,032 million were recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 2008 2007 asset Derivatives these include swaps, forwards, futures and options.
may be traded on an organised exchange exchange-traded or overthe-counter OTC.
Holders of exchange traded derivatives are generally Fair value financial instruments required to provide margin daily in the form of cash or other collateral.
Financial instruments classified as held-for-trading or designated as at fair value through profit or loss and financial assets classified as Swaps include currency swaps, interest rate swaps, credit default available-for-sale are recognised in the financial statements at fair value.
swaps, total return swaps and equity and equity index swaps.
A swap is All derivatives are measured at fair value.
Gains or losses arising from an agreement to exchange cash flows in the future in accordance with a changes in the fair value of financial instruments classified as held-forpre-arranged formula.
In currency swap transactions, interest payment trading or designated as at fair value through profit or loss are included obligations are exchanged on assets and liabilities denominated in in the income statement.
Unrealised gains and losses on  currencies: the exchange of principal may be notional or sale financial assets are recognised directly in equity unless an actual.
Interest rate swap contracts generally involve exchange of fixed impairment loss is recognised.
and floating interest payment obligations without the exchange of the underlying principal amounts.
Forwards include forward foreign exchange contracts and forward rate agreements.
A forward contract is a contract to buy or sell a specified amount of a physical or financial commodity, at an agreed price, on an agreed future date.
Forward foreign exchange contracts are contracts for the delayed delivery of currency on a specified future date.
Forward 186 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 rate agreements are contracts under which two counterparties agree on included.
Outward reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the the interest to be paid on a notional deposit of a specified term starting same accounting period as the direct claims to which they relate.
The on a specific future date: there is no exchange of principal.
outstanding claims provision is based on information available to Futures are exchange-traded forward contracts to buy or sell management and the eventual outcome may vary from the original standardised amounts of underlying physical or financial commodities.
Actual claims experience may differ from the historical The Group buys and sells currency, interest rate and equity futures.
pattern on which the estimate is based and the cost of settling individual claims may exceed that assumed.
Options include exchange-traded options on currencies, interest rates and equities and equity indices and OTC currency and equity options, Goodwill interest rate caps and floors and swaptions.
They are contracts that give The Group capitalises goodwill arising on the acquisition of businesses, the holder the right but not the obligation to buy or sell a specified as discussed in accounting policy 6.
The carrying value of goodwill as amount of the underlying physical or financial commodity at an agreed at 31 December 2008 was 15,562 million 2007 42,953 million.
price on an agreed date or over an agreed period.
Goodwill is the excess of the cost of an acquired business over the fair Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a value of its net assets.
The determination of the fair value of assets and liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms liabilities of businesses acquired requires the exercise of management length transaction.
Fair values are determined from quoted prices in judgement: for example those financial assets and liabilities for which active markets for identical financial assets or financial liabilities where there are no quoted prices, and those non-financial assets where these are available.
Fair value for a net open position in a financial asset valuations reflect estimates of market conditions, such as property.
or financial liability in an active market is the current bid or offer price Different fair values would result in changes to the goodwill arising and times the number of units of the instrument held.
Where a trading to the post-acquisition performance of the acquisition.
Goodwill is not portfolio contains both financial assets and financial liabilities which are amortised but is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if derivatives of the same underlying instrument, fair value is determined events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
by valuing the gross long and short positions at current mid market prices, with an adjustment at portfolio level to the net open long or short For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business position to amend the valuation to bid or offer as appropriate.
Where the combination is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value is established or groups of cash-generating units expected to benefit from the using a valuation technique.
These valuation techniques involve a combination.
Goodwill impairment testing involves the comparison of degree of estimation, the extent of which depends on the instruments the carrying value of a cash-generating unit or group of cashcomplexity and the availability of market-based data.
The sensitivity to generating units with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is reasonably possible alternative assumptions of the fair value of financial the higher of the units fair value and its value in use.
Value in use is the instruments valued using techniques where at least one significant input present value of expected future cash flows from the cash-generating is unobservable is given in Note 11 on pages 202 and 203. unit or group of cash-generating units.
Fair value is the amount obtainable for the sale of the cash-generating unit in an arms length General insurance claims transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties.
The Group makes provision for the full cost of settling outstanding claims arising from its general insurance business at the balance sheet Impairment testing inherently involves a number of judgmental areas: date, including claims estimated to have been incurred but not yet the preparation of cash flow forecasts for periods that are beyond the reported at that date and claims handling expenses.
General insurance normal requirements of management reporting: the assessment of the claims provisions amounted to 5,478 million at 31 December 2008 discount rate appropriate to the business: estimation of the fair value of 2007 5,466 million.
cash-generating units: and the valuation of the separable assets of each business whose goodwill is being reviewed.
Sensitivity to changes Provisions are determined by management based on experience of in assumptions is discussed in Note 17 on page 220. claims settled and on statistical models which require certain assumptions to be made regarding the incidence, timing and amount of Deferred tax claims and any specific factors such as adverse weather conditions.
In The Group makes provision for deferred tax on short-term and other order to calculate the total provision required, the historical development temporary differences where tax recognition occurs at a different time of claims is analysed using statistical methodology to extrapolate, within from accounting recognition.
acceptable probability parameters, the value of outstanding claims at the balance sheet date.
Also included in the estimation of outstanding The Group has recognised deferred tax assets in respect of losses, claims are other assumptions such as the inflationary factor used for principally in the UK, and short-term timing differences.
Tax relief is bodily injury claims which is based on historical trends and, therefore, given for operating losses by offset when future profits arise and allows for some increase due to changes in common law and statute.
therefore the recoverability of deferred tax assets is a matter of Costs for both direct and indirect claims handling expenses are also judgement.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 187 Accounting policies continued Accounting developments The IASB issued amendments to a number of standards in May 2008 as International Financial Reporting Standards part of its annual improvements project.
The amendments are effective The International Accounting Standards Board issued a revised IAS 23 for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 and are Borrowing Costs in March 2007.
Entities are required to capitalise not expected to have a material effect on the Group or company.
borrowing costs attributable to the development or construction of intangible assets or property plant or equipment.
The standard is Also in May 2008, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 1 First-time effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and IAS 27 and is not expected to have a material effect on the Group or company.
Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements that change the investor's accounting for the cost of an investment in a subsidiary, jointly The IASB issued a revised IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements controlled entity or associate.
It does not affect the consolidated in September 2007 effective for accounting periods beginning on or accounts but may prospectively affect the companys accounting and after 1 January 2009.
The amendments to the presentation requirements presentation of receipts of dividends from such entities.
for financial statements are not expected to have a material effect on the Group or company.
The IASB issued an amendment to IAS 39 in July 2008 to clarify the IFRS stance on eligible hedged items.
The amendment is effective for The IASB published a revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations and accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 and is not related revisions to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial expected to have a material effect on the Group or the Bank.
Statements following the completion in January 2008 of its project on the acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries.
The standards improve The International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC convergence with US GAAP and provide new guidance on accounting issued interpretation IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real for changes in interests in subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition will Estate in July 2008.
This interpretation clarifies the accounting for comprise only consideration paid to vendors for equity: other costs will construction profits.
It is applicable for accounting periods beginning on be expensed immediately.
Groups will only account for goodwill on or after 1 January 2009 and is not expected to have a material effect on acquisition of a subsidiary: subsequent changes in interest will be the Group or company.
recognised in equity and only on a loss of control will there be a profit or loss on disposal to be recognised in income.
The changes are The IFRIC issued interpretation IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 but a Foreign Operation in July 2008.
The interpretation addresses the both standards may be adopted together for accounting periods nature of the hedged risk and the amount of the hedged item: where in beginning on or after 1 July 2007.
These changes will affect the Groups a group the hedging item could be held: and what amounts should be accounting for future acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries.
reclassified from equity on the disposal of a foreign operation that had been subject to hedging.
The interpretation is effective for accounting The IASB published revisions to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: periods beginning on or after 1 October 2008 and is not expected to Presentation and consequential revisions to other standards in February have a material effect on the Group or company.
2008 to improve the accounting for and disclosure of puttable financial instruments.
The revisions are effective for accounting periods The IFRIC issued interpretation IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash beginning on or after 1 January 2009 but together they may be adopted Assets to Owners and the IASB made consequential amendments to earlier.
They are not expected to have a material affect on the Group or IFRS 5 'Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations' the company.
The interpretation requires distributions to be presented at fair value with any surplus or deficit to be recognised in The IASB issued an amendment, 'Vesting Conditions and Cancellations', income.
The amendment to IFRS 5 extends the definition of disposal to IFRS 2 'Share-based Payment' in January 2008 that will change the groups and discontinued operations to disposals by way of distribution.
accounting for share awards that have non-vesting conditions.
The fair The interpretation is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after value of these awards does not currently take account of the effect of 1 July 2009, to be adopted at the same time as IFRS 3 revised 2008, non-vesting conditions and where such conditions are not subsequently and is not expected to have a material effect on the Group or company.
met, costs recognised up to the date of cancellation are reversed.
The amendment requires costs not recognised up to the date of The IFRIC issued interpretation IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from cancellation to be recognised immediately.
The amendment is effective Customers in January 2009.
The interpretation addresses the for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The Group accounting by suppliers that receive assets from customers, requiring estimates that adoption will cause a restatement of 2008 results, measurement at fair value.
The interpretation is effective for assets from reducing profit by 110 million with no material affect on earlier periods.
customers received on or after 1 July 2009 and is not expected to have There is not expected to be a material effect on the company.
a material effect on the Group or company.
188 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
