Business review continued Operational risk events by category % of total by value The charts below show that execution, delivery, and process management accounted for over 60% of losses by value during 2008.
This differs from 2007 where a single large value event meant that clients, products and business practices was the largest category.
The data is on a statutory basis.
2008 2007 Clients, product and business practices Execution, delivery and process management External fraud Other Financial crime The Group recognises information security, relating to the loss of Financial crime remains a big challenge for the Group, especially given confidentiality, integrity or availability of our information and systems, as the sophistication of the criminal fraternity.
However, the Group a specific risk, which is managed through a Group Information Security continues to respond to such threats, by continuing to invest in people Policy.
This is reviewed annually and includes processes for managing and processes for both detective and preventative measures especially and ensuring compliance with the policy.
The same standards apply to relating to card fraud and cyber crime.
Key initiatives include changes information controlled by the Group or managed by authorised third to authentication of payments, ATM security, software enhancements parties.
The Group continues to invest in programmes to enhance and and improvement in counterfeit detection.
maintain information security controls and systems.
For example, during 2008, security reviews on third party suppliers and vendors were Physical security environment significantly increased.
The number of physical attacks on our retail business was broadly static in 2008 compared with 2007. Business plans and controls have been Business continuity enhanced to reflect the increase in size of the global business during The management of crisis situations and the need to ensure the the year, for example changes to retail and ATM security and sharing continuity of business across the Group is a key activity within the risk best practice with competitors and law enforcement agencies.
A consistent crisis and incident management framework has been rolled out across the Group, to ensure that any incident is Information security identified, managed and resolved through skilled divisional, country, The Group is committed to protecting customer and Group information.
A six step methodology is in place within the Under a Group-wide policy framework, Group Information Security is Group for managing incidents.
developing, maintaining and implementing policies and systems to secure such information.
All employees and agents of the Group are Key risks and threats that the Group is consistently monitoring from the responsible for the protection of Group assets, systems and information.
crisis and incident management perspective include pandemics, All customer information is treated as confidential and appropriate terrorism, environmental impacts and technology disruptions.
security is applied to protect the information.
The Group Information Security Policies are aligned to international standards and regulatory Business continuity plans have been implemented to ensure that the requirements.
Group can continue key services, products and operations.
120 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
