Additional information continued Regulatory reviews and developments A review by the Competition Commission and the FSA into Payment The Group works with domestic and international trade associations and Protection Insurance is ongoing, with the Competition Commission proactively engages with regulators and other authorities such as the drafting the implementation order following finalisation of its remedies.
Basel Committee, the Committee of European Banking Supervisors and the EU Commission in order to understand the implications of proposed In July 2008, the Office of Fair Trading OFT published the results of its regulatory change and to contribute to the development of regulatory market study into personal current accounts and is now consulting on policy.
remedial action in the three key areas of transparency, complexity of charging structure and switching.
The OFT is also continuing its inquiry The Group and its subsidiaries have co-operated fully with various into credit and debit card interchange fees.
regulatory reviews and developments in the UK and internationally, including enquiries or investigations into alleged or possible breaches UK regulated firms within the Group are members of the Financial of regulations.
Services Compensation Scheme FSCS, which provides compensation to eligible customers of authorised financial services firms that are United Kingdom unable to meet their obligations.
The FSCS is funded through annual The Group successfully implemented the Markets in Financial levies charged to UK regulated firms.
These levies are apportioned Instruments Directive MiFID by the implementation date of 1 November between firms on the basis of their shares of the FSCS tariff base: in 2007.
MiFID established a comprehensive legislative framework at the the case of deposit takers, this means that levies are determined by European level, which is now implemented in the UK, for the their share of protected deposits.
As a result of FSCS involvement in a establishment and conduct of investment firms, multilateral trading number of bank failures in 2008, there will be a significant impact on facilities and regulated markets.
levies charged to deposit takers, starting with those for 2008-09.
These impacts are reflected in the accounts.
FSA authorised firms must also comply with rules designed to reduce the scope for firms to be used for financial crime and in particular The FSA, in their 2008 09 Business Plan, emphasised the continued money laundering.
Revised Joint Money Laundering Steering Group focus on Treating Customers Fairly in line with their view that the area Guidance Notes were issued on 13 November 2007 to take into account of greatest structural concern remains the retail market.
The Group has the new Money Laundering Regulations 2007.
These Regulations came undertaken a process of continuous improvement of management into force on 15 December 2007 and implemented the EUs Third information and root cause analysis of customer issues in order to Money Laundering Directive.
Amongst their other provisions, the ensure that it can demonstrate that it is consistently treating customers Regulations endorse a risk based approach to combating money fairly throughout the product lifecycle.
laundering, while also prescribing enhanced due diligence for non face to face customers, politically exposed persons PEPs and The Group also continues to co-operate with the Information correspondent banking.
Whilst for all material purposes the Group is Commissioners Office, the UKs independent public body set up to already compliant these provisions having been anticipated in industry promote access to official information and to protect personal guidance for some time internal processes are continually reviewed to information.
The Group continues to improve its processes in line with ensure best practice standards are met.
In particular, the Group has changing guidelines in order to meet information security requirements.
issued new internal policy guidelines based on the regulations and supporting industry guidance against which all divisions have European Union undertaken a gap analysis as a basis for further action plans where In the EU, the Group has also responded to a number of proposals for necessary.
regulatory and legislative change, including proposed amendments to the Capital Requirements Directive and the establishment of Colleges of In the UK, the Group has engaged proactively with a variety of Supervisors to enhance cross border cooperation between supervisors.
Financial stability and depositor The Group also follows closely the work and recommendations of the protection have been a key focus for the UK regulatory authorities.
Group participated fully in the consultation process on the Banking Reform Bill.
In addition, the Group continues to comment on regulatory United States and legal changes that impact its business.
Examples include the In the US the Group also engages constructively with regulators and Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform BERR other bodies on regulatory and legislative change and seeks to ensure transposition of the Consumer Credit Directive and Consumer Law proper implementation and compliance.
Current issues include Review: HM Treasurys Dormant Bank and Building Society Accounts mortgage reform and student lending.
Bill: Lord Hunts Review of the Financial Ombudsman Service and the review of the Banking Codes and the FSAs consultations on liquidity and regulatory capital.
280 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
