Business review continued Conduits the Groups most significant multi-seller conduits have thus The Group values the funding flexibility and liquidity provided by the far continued to fund the vast majority of their assets solely through ABCP market to fund client and Group-originated assets.
There were significant disruptions to the liquidity of the are plans to decrease the multi-seller conduit business in line with the financial markets during the year following the bankruptcy filing of Groups balance sheet, the Group is reviewing the potential for new Lehman Brothers in September 2008 and this required a small amount own-asset conduit structures to add funding diversity.
of the assets held in certain conduits to be funded by the Group rather than through ABCP issuance.
By the end of 2008 there had been an Outlook for 2009 unaudited improvement in market conditions, supported by central bank initiatives, The market outlook for 2009 remains uncertain with the prospect of which enabled normal ABCP funding to replace this Group funding of recession on a global scale.
The wholesale funding markets remain the conduits.
difficult with a high degree of risk aversion towards the banking market and no restoration of the unguaranteed debt capital markets for bank The average maturity of ABCP issued by the Groups conduits as at 31 issuance yet visible.
The continuation of these conditions means that the December 2008 was 72.1 days 2007 60.9 days.
use of central bank and other government facilities are likely to be required for some time.
Other deposit initiatives have commenced to The total assets held by the Groups sponsored conduits are 49.9 widen wholesale and other retail deposit gathering actions.
Since these liquidity facilities are sanctioned on the basis of total conduit purchase commitments, the liquidity facility commitments will exceed the level of assets held, with the difference representing undrawn commitments.
Group balance sheet audited The following tables show the contractual undiscounted cash flows receivable and payable up to a period of twenty years including future receipts and payments of interest.
While the Group has given commitments to provide these funds, some facilities may be subject to certain conditions being met by the counterparty.
The Group does not expect all facilities to be drawn, and some may lapse before drawdown.
The tables above show the timing of cash inflows and outflows to settle This contractual analysis highlights the maturity transformation of the financial assets and liabilities.
They have been prepared on the following balance sheet that is fundamental to the structure of banking.
In basis: practice, this is not a reflection of the actual behaviour of assets or liabilities.
In particular the customer funding of the balance sheet Financial assets have been reflected in the time band of the latest date exhibits much greater stability and maturity than the tables indicate.
This on which they could be repaid unless earlier repayment can be is because the funding franchise of the Group is diversified across an demanded by the reporting entity: financial liabilities are included at the extensive retail network.
earliest date on which the counterparty can require repayment regardless of whether or not such early repayment results in a penalty.
If Regulatory environment audited the repayment of a financial asset or liability is triggered by, or is The Group is subject to the FSAs liquidity regime, whilst overseas subject to, specific criteria such as market price hurdles being reached, subsidiaries and branches are subject to local regimes.
the asset is included in the latest date on which it can repay regardless of early repayment whereas the liability is included at the earliest Sterling liquidity possible date that the conditions could be fulfilled without considering The FSA requires the Group, on a consolidated basis, to maintain daily the probability of the conditions being met.
For example, if a structured a minimum ratio of 100% between: note is automatically prepaid when an equity index exceeds a certain level, the cash outflow will be included in the less than three months a stock of qualifying high quality liquid assets primarily UK and EU period whatever the level of the index at the year end.
The settlement government securities, treasury bills and cash held in branches : and date of debt securities in issue issued by certain securitisation vehicles consolidated by the Group depends on when cash flows are received the sum of: sterling wholesale net outflows contractually due within from the securitised assets.
Where these assets are prepayable, the five working days offset up to a limit of 50%, by 85% of sterling timing of the cash outflow relating to securities assumes that each asset certificates of deposit held which mature beyond five working days : will be prepaid at the earliest possible date.
As the repayment of assets and 5% of retail deposits with a residual contractual maturity of five and liabilities are linked, the repayment of assets in securitisations are working days or less.
The FSA also sets an absolute minimum level for shown on the earliest date that the asset can be prepaid as this is the the stock of qualifying liquid assets that the Group is required to basis used for liabilities.
Assets and liabilities with a contractual maturity of greater than 20 Given the developments in 2008 the FSA has published new proposals years the principal amounts of financial assets and liabilities that are for liquidity management CP08 22 to replace the current regulatory repayable after 20 years or where the counterparty has no right to framework.
The FSA is proposing a major overhaul of liquidity risk repayment of the principal are excluded from the table as are interest regulation that will include: payments after 20 years.
Improved systems and controls including governance standards, Held-for-trading assets and liabilities held-for-trading assets and pricing, intra day systems and collateral management.
liabilities amounting to 1,226.8 billion assets and 1,146.7 billion liabilities 2007 678.6 billion assets, 478.6 billion liabilities have Individual liquid assessments that will include mandatory scenarios been excluded from the table in view of their short term nature.
and an analysis of principal liquidity exposure factors.
Reporting standards improved both in scope and frequency by enhanced mismatch reporting.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 107
