| | 76 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Estimation techniques, risks, uncertainties and contingencies Introduction r Notified claims development, where notified claims to date for each One of the purposes of insurance is to enable policyholders to protect year are extrapolated based upon observed development of earlier themselves against uncertain future events.
Insurance companies accept years and r Expected loss ratios.
the transfer of uncertainty from policyholders and seek to add value through the aggregation and management of these risks.
In addition, the Group uses other methods such as the BornhuetterFerguson method, which combines features of the above methods.
The uncertainty inherent in insurance is inevitably reflected in the The Group also uses bespoke methods for specialist classes of business.
financial statements of insurance companies.
The uncertainty in the In selecting its best estimate, the Group considers the appropriateness of financial statements principally arises in respect of the insurance liabilities the methods and bases to the individual circumstances of the provision of the company.
The process is designed to select the most appropriate best estimate.
The insurance liabilities of an insurance company include the provision for unearned premiums and unexpired risks and the provision for Large claims impacting each relevant business class are generally assessed outstanding claims.
Unearned premiums and unexpired risks represent separately, being measured either at the face value of the loss adjusters the amount of income set aside by the company to cover the cost of estimates or projected separately in order to allow for the future claims that may arise during the unexpired period of risk of insurance development of large claims.
policies in force at the balance sheet date.
Outstanding claims represent the companys estimate of the cost of settlement of claims that have Provisions are calculated gross of any reinsurance recoveries.
A separate occurred by the balance sheet date but have not yet been finally settled.
estimate is made of the amounts that will be recoverable from reinsurers based upon the gross provisions and having due regard to collectability.
In addition to the inherent uncertainty of having to make provision for future events, there is also considerable uncertainty as regards the The claims provisions are subject to close scrutiny both within the eventual outcome of the claims that have occurred by the balance sheet Groups business units and at Group Corporate Centre.
In addition, date but remain unsettled.
This includes claims that may have occurred for major classes where the risks and uncertainties inherent in the but have not yet been notified to the company and those that are not provisions are greatest, regular and ad hoc detailed reviews are yet apparent to the insured.
undertaken by advisers who are able to draw upon their specialist expertise and a broader knowledge of current industry trends in claims As a consequence of this uncertainty, the insurance company needs development.
As an example, the Groups exposure to asbestos and to apply sophisticated estimation techniques to determine the appropriate provisions.
environmental pollution is examined on this basis.
The results of these reviews are considered when establishing the appropriate levels of provisions for outstanding claims and unexpired periods of risk.
Estimation techniques Claims and unexpired risks provisions are determined based upon It should be emphasised that the estimation techniques for the previous claims experience, knowledge of events and the terms determination of insurance liabilities involve obtaining corroborative and conditions of the relevant policies and on interpretation of evidence from as wide a range of sources as possible and combining circumstances.
Particularly relevant is experience with similar cases these to form the overall estimate.
This technique means that the and historical claims payment trends.
The approach also includes the estimate is inevitably deterministic rather than stochastic.
A stochastic consideration of the development of loss payment trends, the potential valuation approach, whereby a range of possible outcomes is longer term significance of large events, the levels of unpaid claims, estimated and probabilities assigned thereto, is only possible legislative changes, judicial decisions and economic and in a limited number of situations.
The pension assets and pension and post retirement liabilities are Where possible, the Group adopts multiple techniques to estimate the calculated in accordance with International Accounting Standard 19 required level of provisions.
This assists in giving greater understanding IAS 19.
The assets, liabilities and income statement charge, calculated of the trends inherent in the data being projected.
The Groups in accordance with IAS 19, are sensitive to the assumptions made from estimates of losses and loss expenses are reached after a review of time to time, including inflation, interest rate, investment return and several commonly accepted actuarial projection methodologies and a mortality.
IAS 19 compares, at a given date, the current market value of number of different bases to determine these provisions.
These include a pension funds assets with its long term liabilities, which are calculated methods based upon the following: using a discount rate in line with yields on AA rated bonds of suitable duration and currency.
As such, the financial position of a pension fund r The development of previously settled claims, where payments to on this basis is highly sensitive to changes in bond rates and will also be date are extrapolated for each prior year impacted by changes in equity markets.
r Estimates based upon a projection of claims numbers and average cost FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RSA 77 Uncertainties and contingencies Asbestos and environmental claims The uncertainty arising under insurance contracts may be characterised The estimation of the provisions for the ultimate cost of claims for under a number of specific headings, such as: asbestos and environmental pollution is subject to a range of uncertainties that is generally greater than those encountered for r Uncertainty as to whether an event has occurred which would give other classes of insurance business.
As a result it is not possible to rise to a policyholder suffering an insured loss determine the future development of asbestos and environmental r Uncertainty as to the extent of policy coverage and limits applicable claims with the same degree of reliability as with other types of claims, r Uncertainty as to the amount of insured loss suffered by a particularly in periods when theories of law are in flux.
Consequently, policyholder as a result of the event occurring and traditional techniques for estimating claims provisions cannot wholly r Uncertainty over the timing of a settlement to a policyholder be relied upon and the Group employs specialised techniques to for a loss suffered.
determine provisions using the extensive knowledge of both internal asbestos and environmental pollution experts and external legal and The degree of uncertainty will vary by policy class according to the professional advisors.
characteristics of the insured risks and the cost of a claim will be determined by the actual loss suffered by the policyholder.
Factors contributing to this higher degree of uncertainty include: There may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of the r The long delay in reporting claims from the date of exposure insured event and the time it is actually reported to the Group.
for example, cases of mesothelioma can have a latent period of up to Following the identification and notification of an insured loss, there 40 years.
This makes estimating the ultimate number of claims we will may still be uncertainty as to the magnitude and timing of the settlement receive particularly difficult of the claim.
There are many factors that will determine the level of r Issues of allocation of responsibility among potentially responsible uncertainty such as inflation, inconsistent judicial interpretations and parties and insurers court judgments that broaden policy coverage beyond the intent of the r Emerging court decisions and the possibility of retrospective legislative changes increasing or decreasing insurer liability original insurance, legislative changes and claims handling procedures.
r The tendency for social trends and factors to influence court awards r Developments pertaining to the Groups ability to recover reinsurance The establishment of insurance liabilities is an inherently uncertain process for claims of this nature and and, as a consequence of this uncertainty, the eventual cost of settlement of r For US liabilities from our London market business, developments in outstanding claims and unexpired risks can vary substantially from the initial the tactics of US plaintiff lawyers and court decisions and awards.
estimates, particularly for the Groups long tail lines of business.
The Group seeks to provide appropriate levels of claims provision and provision for unexpired risks taking the known facts and experience into account.
Acquisitions and disposals The Group makes acquisitions and disposals of businesses as part of its The Group has exposures to risks in each class of business within each normal operations.
All acquisitions are made after due diligence, which operating segment that may develop and that could have a material will include, amongst other matters, assessment of the adequacy of impact upon the Groups financial position.
The geographic and insurance claims reserves, assessment of the recoverability of reinsurance balances, risk diversity within the Groups portfolio of issued insurance policies inquiries with regard to outstanding litigation and inquiries of local make it not possible to predict whether material development will occur regulators and taxation authorities.
Consideration is also given to and, if it does occur, the location and the timing of such an occurrence.
potential costs, risks and issues in relation to the integration of any The estimation of insurance liabilities involves the use of judgments and proposed acquisitions with existing RSA operations.
The Group will seek assumptions that are specific to the insurance risks within each territory to receive the benefit of appropriate contractual representations and and the particular type of insurance risk covered.
The diversity of the warranties in connection with any acquisition and, where necessary, insurance risks results in it not being possible to identify individual additional indemnifications in relation to specific risks although there judgments and assumptions that are more likely than others to have a can be no guarantee that such protection will be adequate in all material impact on the future development of the insurance liabilities.
The Group may also provide relevant representations, warranties and indemnities to counterparties on any disposal.
While The sections below identify a number of specific risks relating to such representations, warranties and indemnities are essential asbestos and environmental claims.
There may be other classes of risk components of many contractual relationships, they do not represent which could develop in the future and that could have a material impact the underlying purpose for the transaction.
on the Groups financial position.
These clauses are customary in such contracts and may from time to The Group evaluates the concentration of exposures to individual and time lead to us receiving claims from counterparties.
cumulative insurance risk and establishes its reinsurance policy to reduce such exposure to levels acceptable to the Group.
| | 78 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Estimation techniques, risks, uncertainties and contingencies continued Contracts with third parties Credit risk includes the non performance of contractual payment The Group enters into joint ventures, outsourcing contracts and obligations on invested assets and adverse changes in the credit distribution arrangements with third parties in the normal course of its worthiness of invested assets including exposures to issuers or business and is reliant upon those third parties being willing and able to counterparties for bonds, equities, deposits and derivatives.
Limits are perform their obligations in accordance with the terms and conditions set at both a portfolio and counterparty level based on likelihood of of the contracts.
default to manage the Groups overall credit profile and specific concentrations within risk appetite.
Litigation, disputes and investigations The Group, in common with the insurance industry in general, Our insurance investment portfolios are concentrated in listed securities is subject to litigation, mediation and arbitration, and regulatory, with very low levels of exposure to assets without quoted market prices.
governmental and other sectoral inquiries and investigations in the We use model based analysis to verify asset values when market values normal course of its business.
In addition the Group is exposed to are not readily available.
the risk of litigation in connection with its former ownership of the US operation.
The directors do not believe that any current Rating environment mediation, arbitration, regulatory, governmental or sectoral inquiries The ability of the Group to write certain types of insurance business is and investigations and pending or threatened litigation or dispute dependent on the maintenance of the appropriate credit ratings from will have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position, the rating agencies.
The Group has the objective of maintaining single A although there can be no assurance that losses or financial penalties ratings.
At the present time the ratings are A stable from S&P resulting from any current mediation, arbitration, regulatory, upgraded from Ain December 2007, Apositive outlook from AM governmental or sectoral inquiries and investigations and pending or Best and A2 stable from Moodys upgraded from A3 in December threatened litigation or dispute will not materially affect the Groups 2008.
Any worsening in the ratings could have an adverse impact on the financial position or cashflows for any period.
ability of the Group to write certain types of general insurance business.
Reinsurance In assessing credit risk in relation to reinsurance and investments, the The Group is exposed to disputes on, and defects in, contracts with its Group takes into account a variety of factors, including credit rating.
reinsurers and the possibility of default by its reinsurers.
The Group is If any such rating changes, or is otherwise reassessed, this has potential also exposed to the credit risk assumed in fronting arrangements and implications for the related exposures.
to potential reinsurance capacity constraints.
In selecting the reinsurers with whom we do business our strategy is to seek reinsurers with the Changes in foreign exchange rates may impact our results best combination of financial strength, price and capacity.
We publish We publish our consolidated financial statements in Pounds Sterling.
internally a list of authorised reinsurers who pass our selection process Therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates used to translate other and which our operations may use for new transactions.
currencies, particularly other European currencies and the US Dollar, into Pounds Sterling will impact our reported consolidated financial The Group monitors the financial strength of its reinsurers, including condition, results of operations and cashflows from period to period.
those to whom risks are no longer ceded.
Allowance is made in the These fluctuations in exchange rates will also impact the Pound Sterling financial position for non recoverability due to reinsurer default by value of our investments and the return on our investments.
requiring operations to provide, in line with Group standards, having regard to companies on the Groups Watch List.
The Watch List is Income and expenses for each income statement item are translated at the list of companies whom the directors believe will not be able to average exchange rates.
Balance sheet assets and liabilities are translated pay amounts due to the Group in full.
at the closing exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Investment risk Regulatory environment The Group is exposed to market risk and credit risk on its invested The legal, regulatory and accounting environment is subject to significant assets.
Market risk includes the risk of potential losses from adverse change in many of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including movements in market rates and prices including interest rates, equity developments in response to changes in the economic and political prices, property prices and foreign currency exchange rates.
We continue to monitor the developments and Groups exposure to market risks is controlled by the setting of react accordingly.
investment limits in line with the Groups risk appetite.
From time to time the Group also makes use of derivative financial instruments In particular the Group is continuing to monitor and respond to to reduce exposure to adverse fluctuations in interest rates, foreign developments relating to the Solvency II Framework Directive, which exchange rates and equity markets.
The Group has strict controls is intended, in the medium term, to achieve greater harmonisation of over the use of derivative instruments.
approach across European member states to assessing capital resources and requirements.
The directors are confident that the Group will continue to meet all future regulatory capital requirements.
