| | 68 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the consolidated financial statements are set out below.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
Consolidated financial statements The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
The consolidated financial statements are The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the revaluation of available for sale financial assets, investment property, date of exchange, including costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Group occupied property and financial assets and financial liabilities Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities held for trading which include all derivative contracts.
assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority Except where otherwise stated, all figures included in the consolidated interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the financial statements are presented in millions of British Pounds Sterling Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as Sterling, shown as m, rounded to the nearest million.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Selection of accounting policies The Group exercises judgement in selecting each Group accounting policy.
The accounting policies of the Group are selected by the Changes in the ownership interests of a subsidiary between shareholders of the Group and minority shareholders are accounted for as directors to present financial statements that they consider provide transactions between equity holders of the Group.
Any difference the most relevant information.
For certain accounting policies there are between the fair value of the consideration given by the transferee and different accounting treatments that could be adopted, each of which the carrying value of the ownership interest transferred is recognised would be in compliance with IFRS and would have a significant influence directly in equity.
upon the basis on which the financial statements are presented.
The bases of selection of the accounting policies for the accounting for Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on financial assets and for the recognition of actuarial gains and losses transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised related to pension obligations are set out below: losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries r The Group designates financial assets that are held as investments are changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies on the basis on which the investment return is managed and the adopted by the Group.
Where the investment return is managed on the basis of the periodic cashflows arising from the Associates investment, a financial asset is designated as an available for sale Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but financial asset with unrealised gains recognised in the statement of not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and recognised income and expense.
Where the investment return is 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for by managed on the basis of the total return on the investment including unrealised investment gains, the financial asset is designated as at fair the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
value through the income statement r The Group accounting policy is to recognise actuarial gains and losses The Groups shares of its associates post acquisition profits or losses are arising from the recognition and funding of the Groups pension recognised in the income statement, and its share of post acquisition obligations in the statement of recognised income and expense during movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post the period in which they arise.
This policy has been adopted as it acquisition movements are adjusted in the carrying amount of the provides the most relevant basis of recognition of such gains and losses.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has Consolidation incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern Adjustments are made, where necessary, to conform the accounting the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from their policies of associates to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by activities, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half the Group.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RSA 69 Translation of foreign currencies When calculating the goodwill arising on an acquisition, claims provisions Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are discounted to present value.
Immediately following the acquisition, are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment the claims provisions are valued at full nominal value.
This increase in liabilities is matched by the recognition of an intangible asset arising from in which the entity operates the functional currency.
acquired claims provisions, representing the present value of future investment income implicit in the claims discount.
The intangible asset is The results and financial position of those Group entities whose amortised over the expected run off period and is tested in the context functional currency is not Sterling are translated into Sterling as follows: of the liability adequacy test of insurance liabilities where the balances of intangible assets associated with insurance contracts is deducted from r Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated the carrying amount of the insurance liabilities.
The run off period is at the closing exchange rate at the date of that balance sheet normally between five and 11 years.
r Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates during each period Expenditure that increases the future economic benefits arising from r All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a component computer software in excess of its standard of performance assessed of equity.
immediately before the expenditure was made is recognised as an intangible asset.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency Other intangible assets comprise renewal rights, customer lists, instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to brands and other acquired identifiable non monetary assets without equity.
When a foreign entity is sold, the cumulative exchange physical form.
differences relating to that foreign entity are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Computer software and other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation on computer software and Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity is treated as an other intangible assets is calculated using the straight line method to asset of the foreign entity and the carrying value is translated at the allocate the cost over their estimated useful lives, which is normally closing exchange rate.
estimated to be between three and 12 years.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Property and equipment Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such Property and equipment comprise Group occupied land and buildings, transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of fixtures, fittings and equipment including computer hardware and monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are motor vehicles.
These assets are depreciated over their estimated useful recognised in the income statement.
life after taking into account residual values.
Translation differences on non monetary items, such as equities classified Group occupied property is stated at fair value, less subsequent as available for sale financial assets, are included in the fair value reserve depreciation for buildings.
All other assets are stated at depreciated cost.
Fair value movements are recorded in equity.
Goodwill and other intangible assets Fair value is based on current prices in an active market for similar Goodwill, being the difference between the cost of a business property in the same location and condition and subject to similar acquisition and the Groups interest in the net fair value of the contractual terms of ownership.
Valuations are performed by external identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, is initially capitalised in the professionally qualified valuation surveyors on at least an annual basis, balance sheet at cost and is subsequently recognised at cost less with reference to current market conditions.
The cost of the acquisition is the amount of cash paid and the fair value of other purchase consideration All other classes are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
given together with associated expenses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Each of those of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset only when it is cash generating units represents the Groups investment within each probable that future economic benefits associated to the item will flow operation.
Goodwill is subject to an impairment review at least annually.
to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably.
An impairment review is also carried out whenever there is an indication that goodwill or other intangible assets are impaired.
Where the carrying amount is more than the recoverable amount, an impairment is recognised in the income statement.
| | 70 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Significant accounting policies continued Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on all other items is calculated on purpose for which the investments were acquired.
Management the straight line method to write down the cost of such assets to their determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition.
residual value over their estimated useful lives as follows: The Group designates investments in accordance with its investment Group occupied buildings normally 30 years strategy on the basis on which the investment return is managed and Fixtures and fittings 10 years the performance is evaluated internally.
Where the investment return Motor vehicles 4 years is managed on the basis of the periodic cashflows arising from the Equipment 3-5 years investment, a financial asset is designated as an available for sale financial asset.
Where the investment return is managed on the basis The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if of the total return on the investment including unrealised investment appropriate, at the balance sheet date.
gains, the financial asset is designated as at fair value through the income statement.
An impairment review is carried out whenever there is an indication that the assets are impaired.
An assets carrying amount is written down to Financial assets arising from non investment activities are not classified its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its on initial recognition as available for sale assets and are therefore categorised as loans and receivables.
Increases in the carrying amount arising on the revaluation of Group Where the cumulative changes recognised in equity represent an unrealised loss the individual asset or group of assets is reviewed to test occupied property are credited to revaluation reserves in equity.
whether an indication of impairment exists.
Decreases that offset the previous increases of the same asset are charged against revaluation surplus directly in equity: other decreases For securities whose fair values are readily determined and where there are charged to the income statement.
Each year the difference between is objective evidence that such an asset is impaired, including a significant depreciation based on the fair value of the asset charged to the income or prolonged decline in the fair value below cost, the unrealised loss statement and depreciation based on the assets original cost is charged to equity is reclassified to the income statement.
transferred from revaluation surplus to retained earnings.
If the fair value of a previously impaired debt security increases and Investment property the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the Investment property, comprising freehold and leasehold land and impairment loss was recognised, the impairment loss is reversed and buildings, is held for long term rental yields and is not occupied by the reversal recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses on the Group.
equity investments are not reversed.
Investment property is recorded at fair value, measured by independent For other loans and receivables, where there is evidence that the professionally qualified valuers, who hold a recognised and relevant contracted cashflows will not be received in full, an impairment charge is professional qualification and have recent experience in the location and recognised in the income statement to reduce the carrying value of the category of the investment property being valued.
Valuations are carried financial asset to its recoverable amount.
out on an annual basis or more frequently and by internal valuers for interim periods, with reference to current market conditions.
Related Investment income is recognised in the income statement.
Dividends on unrealised gains and unrealised losses or changes thereof are recognised equity investments are recognised on the date at which the investment is in net investment return.
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method.
Unrealised gains and losses on available for sale Financial assets investments are recognised directly in equity, except for impairment A financial asset is initially recognised, on the date the Group commits losses and foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary items which to purchase the asset, at fair value plus, in the case of all financial assets are recognised in the income statement.
On derecognition of an not classified as at fair value through the income statement, transaction investment classified as available for sale, the cumulative gain or loss costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition.
A financial asset is previously recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement.
derecognised when the rights to receive cashflows from the investment have expired or have been transferred and when the Group has transferred substantially the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset.
Derivative financial instruments Derivatives are recognised in the balance sheet on a trade date basis and On initial recognition, the financial assets may be categorised into the are carried at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when fair value following categories: financial assets at fair value through the income is positive and as liabilities when fair value is negative.
The method of statement, loans and receivables, held to maturity financial assets and recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative available for sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the is designated as a hedging instrument and the nature of the item being FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RSA 71 discounted cashflow calculations based upon prevailing market rates.
Where a derivative is not designated as a hedging instrument, Loan capital is carried at amortised cost and, when different, fair value changes in its fair value are recognised in the income statement.
is shown in the relevant note.
For borrowings that carry a variable rate of interest other than loan capital, carrying values approximate Hedging to fair values Transactions are classified as hedging transactions when the following r For derivatives, fair values are generally based upon quoted conditions for hedge accounting are met: market prices.
r There is a formal designation and documentation of the hedging relationship and the Groups risk management objective and strategy Insurance contracts for undertaking the hedge Product classification r The hedge is expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting Insurance contracts are those contracts that transfer significant insurance changes in fair value or cashflows attributable to the hedged risk, risk at the inception of the contract.
Insurance risk is transferred when consistent with the originally documented risk management strategy the Group agrees to compensate a policyholder if a specified uncertain for that particular hedging relationship future event other than a change in a financial variable adversely affects r The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured the policyholder.
Any contracts not meeting the definition of an r For cashflow hedges, a forecast transaction that is the subject of the insurance contract under IFRS are classified as investment contracts or hedge must be highly probable and must present an exposure to derivative contracts, as appropriate.
variations in cashflows that could ultimately affect profit or loss r The hedge is assessed on an ongoing basis and determined to have Recognition of income been highly effective.
Premiums written are accounted for in the period in which the contract is entered into and include estimates where the amounts are not Where loan capital or a forward foreign exchange contract is designated determined at the balance sheet date.
Premiums written exclude taxes as a hedging instrument against the net investment in foreign entities, and duties levied on premiums and directly related expenses, the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity: the gain or e. g. commissions.
Premiums are earned as revenue over the period of loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the contract and are calculated principally on a daily pro rata basis.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the underlying hedged item Acquisition costs is derecognised.
Acquisition costs comprise the direct and indirect costs of obtaining and processing new insurance business.
These costs are recognised as a Estimation of the fair value of financial assets and deferred acquisition cost asset and amortised on the same basis as the liabilities related premiums are earned.
The methods and assumptions used by the Group in estimating the fair value of financial assets and liabilities are: Insurance liabilities The provision for unearned premium represents the portion of the premiums written relating to periods of insurance coverage subsequent r For fixed maturity securities, fair values are generally based upon to the balance sheet date.
Where market prices are not readily available, fair values are estimated using either values obtained from quoted The provisions for claims outstanding, whether reported or not, market prices of comparable securities or estimated by discounting comprise the estimated cost of claims incurred but not settled at the expected future cashflows using a current market rate applicable to balance sheet date.
It includes related expenses and a deduction for the yield, credit quality and maturity of the investment the expected value of salvage and other recoveries.
The provision is r For equity securities fair values are based upon quoted market prices determined using the best information available of claims settlement r If the market for a financial asset is not active, the Group establishes patterns, forecast inflation and settlement of claims.
The provisions for fair value by using valuation techniques.
These include the use of claims outstanding relating to long term permanent disability claims in recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that Canada and Scandinavia are also determined using recognised are substantially the same, discounted cashflow analysis and option actuarial methods.
pricing models r For mortgage loans on real estate and collateral loans, fair values are The provisions for claims outstanding, and related reinsurance estimated using discounted cashflow calculations based upon recoveries, are discounted where there is a particularly long period from prevailing market rates incident to claims settlement and where there exists a suitable claims r For cash, short term investments, commercial paper, other assets, liabilities and accruals, carrying amounts approximate to fair values payment pattern from which to calculate the discount.
In defining those r For notes, bonds, loans payable and loan capital, fair values are claims with a long period from incident to claims settlement, those determined by reference to quoted market prices or estimated using categories of claims where the average period of settlement is six years | | 72 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Significant accounting policies continued or more from the balance sheet date has been used as a guide.
The Treasury shares discount rate used is based upon an investment return expected to be Treasury shares are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised earned by assets, which are appropriate in magnitude and nature to on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the treasury shares.
Any cover the provisions for claims outstanding being discounted, during the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity.
period necessary for the payment of such claims.
Loan capital Differences between the estimated cost and subsequent settlement of Loan capital comprises subordinated bonds which are initially measured claims are recognised in the income statement in the year in which they at the consideration received less transaction costs.
Subsequently, are settled or in which the provisions for claims outstanding are loan capital is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest re-estimated.
At each balance sheet date an assessment is made of whether the An exchange with an existing lender of loan capital with substantially provisions for unearned premiums are adequate.
A separate provision is different terms is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original made, based on information available at the balance sheet date, for any financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability.
The terms estimated future underwriting losses relating to unexpired risks.
The are substantially different if the discounted present value of the cashflows provision is calculated after taking into account future investment income under the new terms, including any fees paid net of any fees received and that is expected to be earned from the assets backing the provisions for discounted using the original effective interest rate, is at least 10% unearned premiums net of deferred acquisition costs.
The unexpired different from the discounted present value of the remaining cashflows risk provision is assessed in aggregate for business classes which, in the of the original financial liability.
An exchange where the terms are not opinion of the directors, are managed together.
substantially different is accounted for as an exchange.
Reinsurance ceded If an exchange of loan capital or modification of terms is accounted for Premiums payable in respect of reinsurance ceded are recognised in as an extinguishment, any costs or fees incurred are recognised as part the period in which the reinsurance contract is entered into and include of the gain or loss on the extinguishment.
If it is accounted for as an estimates where the amounts are not determined at the balance sheet exchange, any costs or fees incurred adjust the carrying amount of the date.
Premiums are expensed over the period of the reinsurance liability and are amortised over the remaining term of the modified contract, calculated principally on a daily pro rata basis.
liability and no adjustment is made to the carrying value of the liability to reflect its fair value at the date of exchange.
A reinsurance asset reinsurers share of insurance liabilities is recognised to reflect the amount estimated to be recoverable under the Taxation reinsurance contracts in respect of the outstanding claims reported Taxation in the income statement is based on profits and income for under insurance liabilities.
The amount recoverable from reinsurers is the year as determined in accordance with the relevant tax legislation, initially valued on the same basis as the underlying claims provision.
together with adjustments to provisions for prior years.
UK tax in The amount recoverable is reduced when there is an event arising after respect of overseas subsidiaries and principal associated undertakings is the initial recognition that provides objective evidence that the Group recognised as an expense in the year in which the profits arise, except may not receive all amounts due under the contract and the event has where the remittance of earnings can be controlled and it is probable a reliably measurable impact on the expected amount that will be that remittance will not take place in the foreseeable future, in which recovered from the reinsurer.
case UK tax is based on dividends received.
The reinsurers share of each unexpired risk provision is recognised on Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method on temporary the same basis.
differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and the carrying amounts in the financial statements.
However, if the deferred Annuities purchased by the Group to make payments under structured tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction settlement arrangements are accounted for as reinsurance ceded if the other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction Group remains liable for the settlement in the event of default by the affects neither accounting, nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted annuity provider.
Any gain or loss arising on the purchase of an annuity for.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been is recognised in the income statement at the date of purchase.
enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or Cash and cash equivalents the related deferred tax liability is settled.
Cash and cash equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that are subject to insignificant changes in value and are readily convertible Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that into known amounts of cash.
Cash equivalents comprise financial assets future taxable profits will be available against which these temporary differences can be utilised.
with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RSA 73 The change in the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the Employee benefits changes in the fair value of scheme assets resulting from any curtailments Pension obligations and settlements of scheme liabilities during the period are recognised in Group companies operate various pension schemes.
The schemes the income statement.
Additionally, any previously unrecognised past are generally funded through payments to trustee administered funds, service costs related to these liabilities are recognised in the gains or determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The Group has both losses on settlement and curtailment.
defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme under which the Group pays The expected returns on scheme assets are determined for each fixed contributions into a separate entity.
A defined benefit scheme is asset class, at the beginning of the period, as the expected investment a pension scheme that defines an amount of pension benefit that an returns on scheme assets over the entire life of the related obligations.
employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or All returns are net of investment expenses.
more factors such as age, years of service and salary.
Actuarial gains and losses arise from changes to actuarial assumptions Post retirement benefits including pension schemes and post when revaluing future benefits and from actual experience in respect of retirement health schemes scheme liabilities and investment performance of scheme assets being Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged in different from previous assumptions.
Actuarial gains and losses are the period in which the employment services qualifying for the benefit recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The value recognised in the balance sheet for each individual post retirement scheme is calculated as follows: The amounts charged or credited where relevant in the income statement relating to post retirement benefits in respect of defined r The present value of defined benefit obligation of the scheme at the benefit schemes are as follows: balance sheet date r Minus any past service cost not yet recognised r The current service cost r Minus the fair value at the balance sheet date of the scheme assets r The past service costs for additional benefits granted in the current out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
or earlier periods r The interest cost for the period r The impact of any curtailments or settlements during the period For those individual schemes in deficit, the resulting net liabilities are r The expected return on scheme assets where relevant.
recognised on the consolidated balance sheet in provisions.
For those individual schemes in surplus, an asset is recognised on the balance sheet The current service cost in respect of defined benefit schemes in other debtors and other assets to the extent that the Group can comprises the present value of the additional benefits attributable to realise an economic benefit, in the form of a refund or a reduction in employees services provided during the period.
future contributions, at some point during the life of the scheme or when the scheme liabilities are settled.
The present value of defined benefit obligations and the present values of additional benefits accruing during the period are calculated using the Termination benefits Projected Unit Credit Method.
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts Past service costs arise where additional benefits are granted.
The cost voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group of providing additional benefits is recognised on a straight line basis over recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to the remaining period of service until such benefits vest.
The cost of either: terminating the employment of current employees according providing additional benefits that vest on their introduction are to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: or providing recognised immediately.
termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance The calculation of the present value of accrued benefits includes an sheet date are discounted to present value.
actuarial assumption of future interest rates, which is used to discount the expected ultimate cost of providing the benefits.
The discount rate is Share based payment determined at each balance sheet date by reference to current market The value of the employee share options and other equity settled share yields on high quality corporate bonds identified to match the currency based payments is calculated at fair value at the grant date using and estimated term of the obligations.
The interest cost for the period is appropriate and recognised option pricing models.
The value of liabilities calculated by multiplying the discount rate determined at the start of the in respect of cash settled share based payment transactions is based period by the defined benefit obligations during the period.
upon the fair value of the awards at the balance sheet date.
| | 74 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Significant accounting policies continued Vesting conditions, which comprise service conditions and performance period where a non current asset or disposal group is recognised for conditions, other than those based upon market conditions, are not the first time the balance sheet for the comparative prior period taken into account when estimating the fair value of such awards but presented is not restated.
are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments included in the ultimate measurement of the transaction amount.
The Discontinued operations are presented on the face of the income value of the awards is recognised as an expense on a systematic basis statement as a single amount comprising the total of the net profit or over the period during which the employment services are provided.
loss of discontinued operations and the after tax gain or loss recognised Where an award of options is cancelled by an employee, the full value on the sale or the measurement to fair value less costs to sell of the net of the award less any value previously recognised is recognised at the assets constituting the discontinued operations.
In the period where an cancellation date.
operation is presented for the first time as discontinued, the income statement for the comparative prior period presented is restated to The proceeds received net of any transaction costs are credited to present that operation as discontinued.
share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
Unless otherwise stated, in the period where an operation is presented as discontinued, the notes to the financial statements contain amounts Provisions attributable to continuing operations only.
The comparatives for the Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or notes to the income statement are restated.
constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and Current and non current distinction the amount can be reliably estimated.
Assets are classified as current when expected to be realised within the Groups normal operating cycle of one year.
Liabilities are classified Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an as current when expected to be settled within the Groups normal outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the operating cycle of one year.
All other assets and liabilities are classified class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the as non current.
likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
The Groups consolidated balance sheet is not presented using current and non current classifications.
However, the following balances are Dividends to equity holders generally classified as current: cash and cash equivalents: deferred The final dividend is recognised as a liability when approved at the acquisition costs: and insurance and reinsurance debtors.
The interim dividend is recognised as a liability when paid.
The following balances are generally classified as non current: goodwill and other intangible assets: property and equipment: investment Leases property: investment in associates: financial assets: deferred tax assets: Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight line basis loan capital: and deferred tax liabilities.
over the term of the lease.
Payments made under operating leases are charged on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
The remaining balances are of a mixed nature.
The current and non current portions of such balances are set out in the respective notes Operating segments or in the risk management section.
Operating segments are identified on the basis of the regional structure of the Group.
Internal reports about these segments are regularly reviewed by the Group Chief Executive Officer and by the Board of Directors to assess their performance and to allocate capital and resources.
Non current and disposal group assets and liabilities held for sale and discontinued operations Non current and disposal group assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction, that is highly probable to complete within one year from the date of classification, rather than through continuing use.
Such assets are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell and are classified separately from other assets in the balance sheet.
Assets and liabilities of a disposal group are not netted.
In the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RSA 75 Recently issued accounting pronouncements r In a business combination, the acquiring company must measure the Pronouncements issued by the International Accounting Standards non controlling interest at either fair value or as the non controlling Board IASB but which are not yet mandatory for adoption in the interests proportionate share of the identifiable net assets.
Group financial statements are listed below: Currently only the second basis is permitted r Costs incurred by the acquirer in connection with a business a Published standards and amendments to published standards that are combination must be accounted for separately from the business not yet effective but which have been early adopted by the Group combination.
This will result in such costs being expensed and not r The Group first adopted IFRS 8 Operating segments in its financial being included in goodwill statements in 2007.
IFRS 8 is mandatory for accounting periods r All consideration including contingent consideration transferred in beginning on or after 1 January 2009. a business combination is measured at fair value at the acquisition date.
Changes in the value of contingent consideration are measured b Published standards and amendments to published standards that in accordance with the relevant accounting treatment under IFRS are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group r Pre-existing equity interests in an acquiree are remeasured to fair r On 6 September 2007 the IASB issued a revised version of IAS 1 value at the date of, and immediately before, the business Presentation of Financial Statements.
combination and any resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
The revised standard changes certain aspects of the presentation of financial statements including the mandatory introduction of a The revised standards will come into effect for the annual periods statement of comprehensive income.
The revised standard gives beginning on or after 1 July 2009, but early adoption is permitted.
preparers of financial statements the option of presenting items The revised standards have not yet been adopted by the EU.
The new of income and expense and components of other comprehensive standards will be applied prospectively and so will have no impact on the income either in a single statement of comprehensive income results and the earnings per share of the current period, the comparative with subtotals, or in two separate statements a separate income period or earlier periods, and on the Groups financial position at the statement followed by a statement of comprehensive income.
It is not possible to assess the impact the In addition, the revisions include changes in the titles of some of changes will have on future periods.
the financial statements to standardise accounting terminology c Other standards and interpretations to published standards issued for example, the balance sheet is renamed a statement of financial that are not relevant for the Groups operations or not expected position.
The new titles will be used in accounting standards, to change accounting policies but are not mandatory for use in financial statements.
r Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs issued 29 March 2007 The revised standard will come into effect for the annual periods r Interpretation IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes issued 28 beginning on or after 1 January 2009, but early adoption is permitted.
June 2007 The revisions will result in changes to the presentation of the financial r Amendment to IFRS 2 Share Based Payment issued 17 January 2008 statements but are not expected to change the results or the r Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 earnings per share of the current period, the comparative period Presentation of Financial Statements Puttable Financial Instruments or earlier periods, and the Groups financial position at the end of and Obligations Arising on Liquidation issued 14 February 2008 each such period.
r Improvements to IFRSs issued 22 May 2008 r Amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 27 Cost of an investment in a r On 10 January 2008 the IASB issued a revised version of IFRS 3 subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or associate issued 22 May 2008 Business Combinations and an amended version of IAS 27 r Interpretation IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
The revisions include Estate issued 3 July 2008 the following changes to existing accounting practice: r Interpretation IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign An equity interest in a subsidiary entity that is not held by the Operation issued 3 July 2008 r r Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and reporting and controlling entity is now described as a non controlling Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items issued 31 July 2008 interest currently described as a minority interest r Interpretation IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non cash Assets to Owners r Total comprehensive income is attributed to a non controlling issued 27 November 2008 interest even if this results in the non controlling interest having r Revised IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of IFRS issued 27 November 2008. a deficit balance r A change in a controlling interest arising from a transaction between None of the above are anticipated to have a material impact on the a controlling interest and a non controlling interest that does not Group financial statements.
result in a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction
