Shareholder information Important information Under Article 79 of the Companys Articles of Notice of Annual This notice of meeting contains important Association, any Director appointed to office by General Meeting information and requires your attention.
If you are the Board may only hold office until the next in any doubt as to what action to take you should Annual General Meeting, when shareholders consult with an appropriate adviser.
have the opportunity to vote on his election.
114 115 Accordingly, Lord Howard, who was appointed Notice is hereby given that the 2009 Annual on 20 November 2008 and Philip Mallinckrodt, General Meeting of Schroders plc will be held who was appointed on 1 January 2009, are at 31 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QA on seeking election.
The Board supports the election Thursday, 23 April 2009 at 11.30 a. m. to transact of those Directors.
the following business: Re-election of Directors no later than the third Resolutions Annual General Meeting following last election To consider and, if thought fit, to pass resolutions or re-election resolutions 6 to 8 numbered 1 to 13 as Ordinary Resolutions 6.
That Luc Bertrand, who retires in accordance requiring a majority of more than 50 per cent.
with Article 80, be re-elected as a Director and resolutions 14 and 15 as Special Resolutions of the Company.
requiring a majority of not less than 75 per cent.. 7.
That Alan Brown, who retires in accordance In the opinion of the Directors, all of the resolutions with Article 80, be re-elected as a Director proposed are in the best interests of shareholders of the Company.
and consequently the Directors recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each resolution.
That Kevin Parry, who retires in accordance with Article 80, be re-elected as a Director Report and Accounts of the Company.
That the Directors report and the Accounts of Under Article 80 of the Companys Articles of the Company for the year ended 31 December Association, Directors must retire and may offer 2008 be received and adopted.
themselves for re-election not later than the third For each financial year the Directors are required Annual General Meeting following his or her to present the Directors report and the Accounts election or last re-election to the Board.
Luc of the Company for adoption by shareholders.
Bertrand, Alan Brown and Kevin Parry are retiring from office under this Article and offer themselves Final dividend for re-election.
A profile of each Director is 2.
That a final dividend of 21.0 pence per share contained on pages 28 and 29.
The Board on the ordinary shares and on the non-voting supports the re-election of these Directors.
ordinary shares as recommended by the Re-election of Directors having served more than Directors be declared payable on 30 April nine years on the Board resolutions 9 and 10 2009 to shareholders on the register on 9.
That Bruno Schroder, who retires having 20 February 2009. served more than nine years as a Director, The payment of the final dividend of 21.0 pence be re-elected as a Director of the Company.
per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008, which is recommended by 10.
That Sir Peter Job, who retires having served the Board, requires the approval of shareholders more than nine years as a Director, be rein general meeting.
elected as a Director of the Company.
In accordance with the Companys Corporate Remuneration report Governance Guidelines, which reflect the 3.
That the remuneration report for the year provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate ended 31 December 2008 be approved.
Governance, non-executive Directors must retire Under section 234B of the Companies Act 1985 and may offer themselves for re-election annually as amended, the Directors must prepare an once they have served nine or more years on annual report detailing the remuneration of the the Board.
This applies to Bruno Schroder and Directors and the Companys remuneration Sir Peter Job and they each offer themselves for policy for Directors.
The Act also requires that re-election.
A profile of each Director is contained a resolution be put to shareholders each year on page 29.
The Board believes that it is appropriate for their approval of that report.
The Directors for Bruno Schroder, as the representative of the remuneration report can be found on pages 38 Companys principal shareholder group, to be reto 48.
This notice therefore contains a resolution elected.
The Board also supports the re-election to approve the remuneration report for the year of Sir Peter Job as it considers that Sir Peter ended 31 December 2008.
The result of this continues to be independent in character and resolution is advisory only.
judgement and that he makes a significant contribution to the Boards effectiveness.
Election of Directors appointed since the If re-elected Sir Peter will continue as the last Annual General Meeting Companys Senior Independent Director.
That Lord Howard of Penrith, who retires The Chairman confirms that, following the in accordance with Article 79, be elected completion of the Board performance evaluation as a Director of the Company.
process for 2008, the performance of each of the 5.
That Philip Mallinckrodt, who retires in Directors standing for re-election continues to be accordance with Article 79, be elected effective and demonstrates commitment to his as a Director of the Company.
Accordingly, the re-election of each of these Directors is recommended.
Auditors resolutions 11 and 12 non-voting ordinary shares up to an aggregate Notice of Annual 11.
That  LLP be nominal amount of 5,000,000.
The authority General Meeting reappointed as auditors of the Company to would not permit the Directors to issue ordinary hold office from the conclusion of this meeting shares or to grant rights to subscribe for, or until the conclusion of the next general convert securities into, ordinary shares.
The 116 117 meeting at which accounts are laid before maximum amount of the authority is equal to the Company in accordance with section approximately 1.7 per cent.
of the Companys 437 of the Companies Act 2006. total issued share capital and approximately 8.2 per cent.
of its issued non voting ordinary share 12.
That the Directors be authorised to fix the capital, in each case as at 9 March, being the remuneration of  latest practicable date prior to the publication of LLP as auditors of the Company.
The Company does not currently The Companys auditors must offer themselves hold any shares in treasury.
for reappointment at each Annual General Meeting The authority given in this resolution would expire at which accounts are presented.
Accordingly, on the earlier of 1 May 2010 or the conclusion of the Board, on the recommendation of the Audit the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Committee, proposes the reappointment of Except for the issue of non-voting ordinary shares  LLP as the Companys under the Companys share or share option plans, auditors.
Resolution 12 authorises the Directors to the Directors do not presently intend to allot any agree the remuneration of  unissued shares.
The Directors do, however, LLP for their services as auditors.
consider that it would be appropriate to have the flexibility to make limited issues of non-voting Authority to allot shares ordinary shares or to grant rights to subscribe 13.
That the Directors be and are hereby generally for, or convert securities into, non-voting ordinary and unconditionally authorised to exercise shares.
This flexibility could be required, for all powers of the Company to allot relevant example, should the Company wish to use securities up to an aggregate nominal amount non-voting ordinary shares as consideration for of 5,000,000, which authority shall expire on possible acquisitions.
1 May 2010 or at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after Authority to purchase own shares the passing of this resolution whichever is 14.
That the Company be and is hereby generally earlier unless previously revoked or varied and unconditionally authorised to make by the Company in general meeting, save market purchases within the meaning of that the Company may before such expiry section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 make an offer or agreement which would or as amended of non-voting ordinary shares might require relevant securities to be allotted of 1 each Shares, subject to the following after such expiry and the Directors may allot conditions: relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred a such authority be limited to a maximum hereby had not expired.
For the purposes number of 14,300,000 Shares: of this authority, the expression relevant b in the case of purchases made otherwise securities shall mean relevant securities than by tender offer, the maximum price, as defined in section 80 of the Companies exclusive of expenses, at which Shares Act 1985 as amended, but shall not in any may be purchased is the higher of: circumstances include ordinary shares i 5 per cent.
above the average of the as defined in the Companys Articles of middle market quotations for the Shares Association or any right to subscribe for, or as derived from the London Stock to convert any security into, ordinary shares.
Exchange Daily Official List for the five Under the Companies Act, the Directors may business days preceding the date of not allot unissued shares in the Company without purchase: and the authority of shareholders in general meeting, ii the higher of the price of the last except for the issue of shares under the Companys independent trade and the highest share or share option plans.
If approved by current independent bid on the London shareholders, this resolution would renew the Stock Exchange at the time the authority given by shareholders at the 2008 purchase is carried out: Annual General Meeting and permit the Directors to issue non-voting ordinary shares or rights to c in the case of a tender offer, the maximum subscribe for, or convert securities into, price, exclusive of expenses, at which Shares may be purchased is 5 per cent.
above the average of the middle market quotations for the Shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days preceding the date on which the tender offer is announced: Shareholder information d the minimum price at which Shares may Notice of general meetings be purchased is 1 per share, exclusive 15.
That a general meeting other than an annual of expenses: and general meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
e such authority shall, unless renewed prior to such time, expire at the conclusion of This resolution is required to reflect the proposed the next Annual General Meeting of the implementation in August 2009 of the EU Company save that the Company may Shareholder Rights Directive.
The regulation before such expiry enter into a contract implementing this Directive will increase the notice to purchase Shares which would or might period for general meetings of the Company to be completed or executed wholly or partly 21 days.
The Company is currently able to call after its expiry and may make a purchase of general meetings other than an annual general Shares in pursuance of any such contract.
meeting on 14 clear days notice and would like to preserve this ability.
In order to be able to do If passed, this resolution would renew the so after August 2009, shareholders must have Companys general authority to make purchases approved the calling of meetings on 14 days of its non-voting ordinary shares.
This resolution seeks the necessary relates to 14,300,000 shares, representing approval.
The approval will be effective until the approximately 5 per cent.
of the Companys Companys next annual general meeting, when total issued share capital and 23.6 per cent.
it is intended that a similar resolution will be of its issued non-voting ordinary share capital.
The Company will also need to meet The authority sets limits on the price which may the requirements for electronic voting under the be paid for any shares and is limited to market Directive before it can call a general meeting on purchases on the London Stock Exchange or 14 days notice after August 2009. so far as required under the Listing Rules market purchases by tender offer to all shareholders.
Proxy forms Since the previous authority was renewed at the A proxy form is enclosed to enable shareholders last Annual General Meeting on 24 April 2008, unable to attend the meeting to cast their votes 1,526,232 non-voting ordinary shares have at the Annual General Meeting by post or online, been purchased and cancelled at a total cost or by appointing someone else to attend, speak of 13,525,808.
As at the date of this notice and vote on their behalf.
of meeting there were 6,303,207 options By Order of the Board outstanding over non-voting ordinary shares.
of the total issued Graham Staples share capital and 10.4 per cent.
of the issued Company Secretary non-voting ordinary share capital at that date and Registered office: would represent 2.3 per cent.
of the total issued 31 Gresham Street share capital and 10.4 per cent.
of the issued London EC2V 7QA non-voting ordinary share capital if the Company 9 March 2009 were to purchase the maximum number of shares allowed under this general authority.
In recent years, this authority has been used with a view to maintaining the ratio of ordinary shares to non-voting ordinary shares over the medium term, taking into account the issue of non-voting ordinary shares under the Companys share or share option plans.
This policy was extended in 2007 to take into account the issue of any nonvoting ordinary shares pursuant to the authority contained in resolution 13.
In addition, purchases may also be undertaken at the Directors discretion, where they consider them to be otherwise appropriate.
Purchases under this authority would only be made where the Directors believed that they were in the best interests of the Company, taking into account other available investment opportunities and the overall financial position of the Group, and where earnings per share would be increased except possibly in respect of purchases made in relation to the issue of nonvoting ordinary shares under the Companys share or share option plans.
If the Company were to purchase any non-voting ordinary shares pursuant to this authority, the Directors would consider whether to cancel those shares or subject to the limits allowed by company law hold them as treasury shares.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using Notice of Annual the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST 1.
Ordinary shareholders entitled to attend and vote at the message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly General Meeting meeting are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or authenticated in accordance with Euroclears any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their specifications, and must contain the information required behalf at the meeting.
An ordinary shareholder may appoint for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
118 119 more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the the rights attached to a different share or shares held by instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by Company.
A proxy form for ordinary shareholders which the issuers agent ID RA19 by 11.30 a. m. on 21 April 2009. may be used to make such appointment and give proxy For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the instructions accompanies this notice.
Non-voting ordinary time as determined by the timestamp applied to the shareholders have no right to attend or vote at the Annual message by the CREST Application Host at which the General Meeting.
issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
To be valid, any proxy form or other instrument appointing any change of instructions to proxies appointed through a proxy must be received by post or during normal CREST should be communicated to the appointee through business hours only by hand at the Companys registrar, other means.
Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZL no later than 48 hours before the time 11.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST fixed for the meeting.
sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in 3.
Ordinary shareholders who prefer to register the CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings appointment of their proxy electronically via the internet and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input can do so at www.
co. uk where full instructions of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the are given.
The voting ID, task ID and shareholder reference CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST number printed on the proxy form will be required.
member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored Alternatively ordinary shareholders who have already member, or has appointed a voting service provider, registered with Equinitis Shareview service can appoint to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service their proxy by logging on to their portfolio at provider s take s such action as shall be necessary www.
co. uk and clicking on Company to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the Meetings.
A proxy appointment made electronically will CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, not be valid if sent to any email address other than those CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST provided or if received after 11.30 a. m. on 21 April 2009. sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in Any communication found to contain a computer virus will particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual not be accepted.
concerning practical limitations of the CREST system 4.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such and timings.
instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction as described 12.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy in paragraph 10 below will not prevent a shareholder Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. if he she wishes to do so.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives 5.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 meeting so that: to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be of the meeting as its corporate representative with appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person directions of all of the other corporate representatives has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have corporate representatives will give voting directions to a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold exercise of voting rights.
a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and 6.
The statement of the rights of ordinary shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 ii if more than one corporate representative for the same and 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman by ordinary shareholders of the Company.
of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, 7.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General from those corporate representatives who attend, Meeting and for the purpose of the determination who will vote on a poll and the other corporate by the Company of the votes they may cast, ordinary representatives will give voting directions to that shareholders must be registered in the Register of designated corporate representative.
Members of the Company at 6.00 p. m. on 21 April 2009 or, in the event of any adjournment, 6.00 p. m. on the Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued date which is two business days before the time of the by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being the meeting.
appointed as described in i above.
As at 9 March 2009 being the last business day prior to 14.
Profiles of each of the Directors offering themselves for the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share election or re-election are on pages 28 and 29 of this Annual capital consisted of 226,022,400 ordinary shares, carrying Report and Accounts.
The profiles include, where one vote each, and 60,700,960 non-voting ordinary shares appropriate, membership of Board Committees.
No shares are held in treasury.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 9 March 2009 are 15.
The following documents are available for inspection at the 226,022,400.
Companys registered office during normal business hours on weekdays and will be available for inspection at least 9.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting: Articles of through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service Association: and Directors service contracts or letters may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST of appointment.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who 16.
In the event that you have sold or transferred your shares have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their in the Company, you should pass this Annual Report and CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be Accounts to the person through whom the sale or transfer able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
was made for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
