Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 Presentation of the financial current financial assets with the intention Measurement and reclassified all financial statements of generating future income and cash flows assets previously classified as held for Financial information for the year and no longer uses the terminology liquid trading as available-for-sale where such ended 31 December 2008 is presented funds when managing its portfolio of assets were eligible for reclassification.
in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation investments, this presentation is no longer The application of the amendments to the of Financial Statements.
appropriate, and the Group now presents Standard was made in accordance with the cash flows on all current financial its transitional provisions.
Where financial IAS 1 allows an entity to present assets, together with the interest received assets and economic conditions met some of its assets and liabilities using on them, within the Investing activities the criteria specified within the Standard, a current non-current classification section of the cash flow statement.
these provisions allowed an entity to and others in order of liquidity when The effect of this change in presentation reclassify a financial asset retrospectively this provides information that is reliable is to reduce 2007 net cash from operating to 1 July 2008 if the reclassification took and more relevant.
activities and increase net cash from place before 1 November 2008.
The investing activities by 114.9 million.
Group did reclassify before this date The Group has adopted a mixed basis There is no change to the Groups overall and opted to apply the reclassification of presentation within its consolidated net increase in cash and cash equivalents.
retrospectively to 1 July 2008. balance sheet which shows the assets and liabilities of the Groups life company As a result of this adoption, the Group business, Schroder Pension Management 1.
Summary of accounting policies is required to make certain disclosures Limited, in order of liquidity and the under IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: remainder of the Groups assets and a Basis of preparation Disclosures which are included within liabilities using a current non-current The consolidated financial statements notes 4, 15 and 17 below.
have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards The consolidated financial information This presentation provides more relevant IFRS, which comprise standards and presented within these financial information in that, if the assets and interpretations approved by either the statements has been prepared on liabilities of the Groups life company International Accounting Standards Board the historical cost basis, except for the business, Schroder Pension Management or the International Financial Reporting measurement at fair value of derivative Limited, were to be included within Interpretations Committee or their financial instruments and financial assets existing captions on the Groups balance predecessors, as adopted by the and liabilities that are available-for-sale sheet, the effect would be to gross European Union, and with those parts or held at fair value through profit up a number of individual line items of the Companies Act 1985 applicable or loss and the measurement of long-term to a material extent.
By adopting a mixed to companies reporting under IFRS.
employee benefits at present value of the basis of presentation, the Group is able obligation less fair value of any assets held to provide a more transparent presentation At the balance sheet date, the Group had to settle the obligation.
The carrying value that shows the life company asset and adopted all Standards and Interpretations of recognised assets and liabilities that the related unit-linked liability as separate that were either issued, or which had are hedged is adjusted to record changes and distinct from the remainder of the become effective, during the year, with in the fair values attributable to the risks Groups balance sheet items.
the exception of the following Standards that are being hedged.
This valuation which were issued during the year, is in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Classification changes within the but were not effective at the balance Instruments: Recognition and consolidated income statement sheet date: Measurement.
In prior years, the Group has included IAS 1 Amended Presentation of charges in respect of the amortisation b Basis of consolidation Financial Statements The consolidated financial information of intangible assets arising from business IAS 27 Amended Consolidation and combinations within Cost of sales.
contained within these financial Separate Financial statements incorporates financial It has now reclassified such charges as Statements Administrative expenses to be consistent statements of the Company and IFRS 3 Amended Business Combinations entities controlled by the Company with the classification of other depreciated IFRS 8 Operating Segments and amortised assets.
The effect of this its subsidiaries prepared to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the reclassification is to decrease 2007 cost of sales by 1.7 million, with a corresponding Company has the power to govern the In addition, a number of other existing financial and operating policies of an increase in administrative expenses.
There Standards and Interpretations have also is no effect on the Groups profit before tax investee entity so as to obtain benefits been revised to ensure consistency with from its activities.
Where the Group or segmental results.
Details of the current the amended Standards listed above.
year amortisation charge can be found in controls an entity, but does not own The Directors do not anticipate that the note 11 below.
all the share capital of that entity, the adoption of any of these new or revised interest of minority shareholders is stated Standards and Interpretations in future Changes to the presentation of the within equity at the minoritys proportion periods will have a material impact on consolidated cash flow statement of the fair values of the assets and the financial statements of the Group.
In prior years, the Group has made a liabilities recognised.
distinction within its cash flow statement Apart from the adoption of the amendment and the accompanying note to that The accounts of subsidiary undertakings to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: statement between those current financial and associates, which are prepared Recognition and Measurement detailed assets held for operating purposes and using uniform accounting policies, are below, none of the Standards and those held for investing purposes.
Cash coterminous with those of the Company Interpretations adopted had any impact flows from financial assets held within the apart from those of certain undertakings on the Groups financial statements.
Groups liquid funds portfolios, together which have accounting reference dates with interest received on such investments, other than 31 December for commercial During the year, the Group adopted were recorded as arising from investing reasons.
Management accounts made the amendments to IAS 39 Financial activities.
As the Group holds all its Instruments: Recognition and Financial statements Financial accounts 60 61 up to 31 December are used for such in the income statement and is not carrying values exceed the estimated undertakings.
recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
The results of subsidiary undertakings and Goodwill arising on the acquisition of The recoverable amount is the greater associates acquired or sold are included associates or jointly controlled entities is of fair value less costs to sell and from or to the date control changes.
included in the amount of the investments.
Where intangible software Gains and losses on the disposal of an assets are not yet available for use, Employee share ownership trusts have entity include the carrying amount of the an assessment of whether the carrying been established for the purposes of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill values exceed the estimated recoverable satisfying certain share-based awards.
arising on acquisitions before the date of amount is made irrespective of whether These trusts are fully consolidated within transition to IFRS has been retained at the there is any indication of impairment.
previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date g Property, plant and equipment The Group has seed capital investments and annually thereafter.
Goodwill written The Groups assets include leasehold in a number of funds where it is in a off to equity prior to 1998 has not been improvements, office equipment, position to be able to control those funds.
reinstated and is not included in determining computers and cars.
Property, plant and These funds are consolidated unless they any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
equipment is recorded initially at cost.
meet the criteria set out in the accounting Depreciation is provided on the depreciable policy in respect of non-current assets e Intangible assets arising from amount over their useful lives on a held for sale to be categorised as being business combinations straight-line basis at rates varying between held for sale, in which case they are The costs of acquiring intangible assets 20 per cent.
classified and accounted for in accordance such as fund management contracts and The depreciable amount is the gross with that policy.
Where the Group client relationships as part of a business carrying amount, less the estimated consolidates a fund, but does not own combination are capitalised where it is residual value at the end of its economic all the net assets of that fund, the interests probable that future economic benefits life.
Depreciation rates and methods as of minority investors are classified as that are attributable to the assets will flow well as the residual values underlying the non-equity minority interests and are to the Group and the cost of the assets calculation of depreciation of items of stated within trade and other payables at can be measured reliably.
property, plant and equipment are kept the minoritys proportion of the fair values under review to take account of any of the assets and liabilities recognised.
The fund management contracts are change in circumstances.
recorded initially at fair value and then All intra-Group transactions, balances, amortised over their useful lives on a The carrying values of these assets are income and expense are eliminated straight-line basis.
The fair value at the reviewed for impairment at each reporting on consolidation.
date of acquisition is calculated using date.
An assessment is made as to discounted cash flow methodology and whether there is any indication that c Business combinations represents the valuation of the net residual an asset may be impaired: if any such The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted income stream arising from the fund indication exists and where the carrying for using the purchase method.
The cost management contracts in place at the values exceed the estimated recoverable of the acquisition is measured at the date of acquisition.
The contracts are amount, the assets are written down to aggregate of the fair values, at the date included in the balance sheet as an their recoverable amount.
The recoverable of exchange, of assets given, liabilities intangible asset.
amount is the greater of fair value less incurred or assumed, and equity costs to sell and value in use.
Impairment instruments issued by the Group in At each reporting date, an assessment is losses are recognised in the income exchange for control of the acquiree, made as to whether there is any indication statement.
plus any costs directly attributable to that an asset in use may be impaired.
The acquirees If any such indication exists and the h Associates and joint ventures identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent carrying values exceed the estimated Associates comprise those undertakings, liabilities that meet the conditions for recoverable amount, the assets are not being subsidiary undertakings, where recognition under IFRS 3 Business written down to their recoverable amount.
the Group is in a position to exercise Combinations are recognised at their The recoverable amount is the greater of significant influence, but not control or fair values at the acquisition date, except fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
joint control, through participation in the for non-current assets or disposal groups financial and operating policy decisions that are classified as held for sale in f Intangible assets software of the investee.
accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current The costs of purchasing and implementing Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued software, together with associated Joint ventures comprise those Operations, which are recognised and relevant expenditure, are capitalised where undertakings, not being subsidiary measured at fair value less costs to sell.
it is probable that future economic benefits undertakings, which carry on related that are attributable to the assets will flow activities, and where there is contractually d Goodwill to the Group and the cost of the assets agreed sharing of control over the financial Goodwill arising on consolidation represents can be measured reliably.
and operating policy decisions of the the excess of the cost of acquisition over investee.
the Groups interest in the fair value of Software is recorded initially at cost and the identifiable assets and liabilities of a then amortised over its useful life on a Investments in associates and joint subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled straight-line basis.
It is included in the ventures are accounted for using the entity at the date of acquisition.
balance sheet as an intangible asset.
The investments are carried in the balance sheet at cost as Goodwill arising on the acquisition of At each reporting date, an assessment is adjusted by post-acquisition changes subsidiaries is recognised as an asset and made as to whether there is any indication in the Groups share of the net assets reviewed for impairment at least annually.
that an asset in use may be impaired.
of the associate or joint venture.
Any impairment is recognised immediately If any such indication exists and the Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 The income statement includes the until the investment is determined to be has applied the scope exclusion within Groups post-tax share of associates impaired, at which time the cumulative IAS 28 Investments in Associates for and joint ventures profits less losses gain or loss previously reported in mutual funds, unit trusts and similar for the year.
Where a Group company equity is included within Revenue in the entities see note h above, or where those transacts with an associate or joint financial assets provide either a hedge income statement.
Assets categorised as venture of the Group, profits and losses available-for-sale are reviewed at the end against liabilities for long-term employee are eliminated to the extent of the Groups benefits that are recorded at present value of each reporting period for impairment.
interest in that associate or joint venture.
in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits or they provide a hedge against Where investments have been reclassified Where the Group has investments in funds out of the fair value through profit or loss financial liabilities held at fair value in over which it is able to exert significant accordance with IAS 39.
Such assets category and into the available-for-sale influence but not control, the Group has category, they were reclassified at their fair are therefore categorised in the same applied the scope exclusion within IAS 28 way as the hedged item in order to value on the date of reclassification.
Any Investments in Associates for mutual funds, gain or loss recognised in profit or loss avoid a recognition or measurement unit trusts and similar entities and has inconsistency and principally comprise prior to reclassification is not reversed.
accounted for such holdings at fair value investments purchased by the Group through profit or loss.
to hedge against compensation awards Gains or losses on reclassified investments are recognised after reclassification as such as fund awards and against deferred i Financial assets consideration payable on the acquisition a separate component of equity until the Items included within this caption on investment is sold or otherwise disposed of NewFinance Holdings Limited NFC the face of the balance sheet principally that derives its underlying value from of, or until the investment is determined to comprise investments in debt securities be impaired, at which time the cumulative specified hedge funds managed and equities and derivative instruments.
The Group holds a small gain or loss previously reported in equity It excludes financial assets that are is included within Revenue in the income number of assets classified as Held recorded under the following headings: for trading.
Loans and advances to customers: Measurement For investments that are actively traded in Trade and other receivables: organised financial markets, fair value is All investments are initially recognised at Cash and cash equivalents: and fair value, being the consideration given.
determined by reference to official quoted Non-current assets held for sale.
market bid prices at the close of business After initial recognition, investments which on the balance sheet date.
For investments Separate accounting policies are presented that are not actively traded in organised are classified as held at fair value through in respect of these excluded items.
profit or loss are measured at fair value.
financial markets, fair value is determined by using quoted prices from third parties Gains or losses, together with transaction Derivative instruments are included within costs, on investments are recognised such as brokers, market makers and the caption Financial assets on the face pricing agencies.
For private equity within Revenue in the income statement.
of the balance sheet, but the accounting investments where there is no quoted Such gains or losses, where they arise policy in respect of such instruments is market price, fair value is determined with on seed capital investments, include presented separately below.
reference to International Private Equity and distributions from funds.
Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines or by During the year, IAS 39 Financial independent professional valuers.
In such For investments that are actively traded Instruments: Recognition and circumstances, fair values are derived using in organised financial markets, fair value is Measurement was amended to permit the most appropriate technique, examples determined by reference to official quoted the reclassification of certain financial of which include the use of earnings market bid prices at the close of business assets in rare circumstances.
The Group multiples applying an appropriate earnings on the balance sheet date.
For quoted believes that the deterioration of the multiple to the earnings of individual investments that are not actively traded worlds financial markets that occurred businesses being valued in order to derive in organised financial markets, fair value is during the year meets the definition of a value and the values assigned to recent determined by using appropriate valuation rare circumstances and has therefore similar transactions.
For Private Equity investments reclassified certain financial assets that were classified as at fair value through during the year.
The Group adopted the All regular way purchases and sales of profit or loss until 1 July 2008, fair value amendment with effect from 1 July 2008. financial assets are recognised on the was determined with reference to trade date, i. e. the date that the Group International Private Equity and Venture Financial assets held as availablecommits to purchase or sell the asset.
Capital Valuation Guidelines or by for-sale Regular way purchases or sales are independent professional valuers.
Measurement purchases or sales of financial assets that Where financial assets have been require delivery of assets within the time All regular way purchases and sales of categorised as being available-for-sale, frame generally established by regulation financial assets are recognised on the all such investments are initially recognised or convention in the marketplace.
trade date, i. e. the date that the Group at fair value, being the consideration given, commits to purchase or sell the asset.
including, where appropriate, acquisition Financial assets held at fair value Regular way purchases or sales are costs associated with the investment.
through profit or loss purchases or sales of financial assets that With effect from 1 July 2008, the Group require delivery of assets within the time After initial recognition, investments which reclassified its held for trading financial frame generally established by regulation are classified as available-for-sale are assets as available-for-sale wherever this or convention in the marketplace.
Gains or losses, was allowable.
As a result, the Group together with transaction costs, on currently only holds financial assets at Financial assets held to maturity available-for-sale investments are fair value through profit or loss where it Designation recognised as a separate component intends to hold those financial instruments Where the Group has the positive intention of equity until the investment is sold, for a very short period of time, where it to hold financial assets to maturity, such collected or otherwise disposed of, or Financial statements Financial accounts 62 63 investments are categorised as held to k Loans and advances to customers with short maturity dates that will be rolled maturity.
Such assets are held exclusively Loans and advances to banks and over as part of an investment portfolio, by the Groups Private Banking operations.
customers are initially recorded at fair they are classified as financial assets rather value and subsequently at amortised than cash and cash equivalents.
For the Measurement cost using the effective interest method.
purposes of the cash flow statement, All investments are initially recognised at cash and cash equivalents consist of fair value, being the consideration given, Impairments for specific bad and doubtful cash and cash equivalents as defined including, where appropriate, acquisition debts are made against loans and above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts charges associated with the investment.
advances made by Private Banking where such facilities form an integral part subsidiaries to reflect an assessment of the Groups cash management.
Financial assets held to maturity are of irrecoverability and are deducted from measured at amortised cost, being the the relevant assets.
Such impairments are o Non-current assets held for sale amount at which they are measured at recorded within Administrative expenses Non-current assets and disposal groups initial recognition less principal repayments, in the income statement.
acquired exclusively with a view to plus or minus the cumulative amortisation subsequent disposal through sale or using the effective interest method of any l Deferred tax deemed disposal are classified as held difference between that initial amount Deferred tax is provided in full, using for sale and measured at the lower of their and the maturity amount, and minus any the liability method, on all taxable and carrying amount and fair value less costs reduction directly or through the use deductible temporary differences at the to sell.
of an allowance account for impairment balance sheet date between the tax or irrecoverability.
bases of assets and liabilities and their Non-current assets and disposal groups carrying amounts for financial reporting are classified as held for sale if their j Derivative financial instruments and purposes.
carrying amount will be recovered through hedge accounting a sale transaction rather than through Derivative contracts are included at fair However, if the deferred tax arises from continuing use.
This condition is regarded value at the balance sheet date within the initial recognition of an asset or liability as met only when the sale is highly Financial assets or Financial liabilities.
in a transaction other than a business probable and the asset or disposal group Fair value represents the amount at which combination that at the time of the is available for immediate sale in its a derivative could be exchanged in a transaction affects neither the accounting present condition.
Management must transaction at the balance sheet date nor taxable profit or loss, it is not be committed to the sale which should between willing parties.
Deferred tax assets and be expected to qualify for recognition liabilities are measured at the tax rates as a completed sale within one year from Where derivatives are held for risk that are expected to apply to the period the date of classification.
At date of sale, management purposes, the Group when the asset is realised or the liability is post-tax gains or losses on such assets formally documents the relationship settled, based on tax rates and tax laws are taken to the income statement where between the derivative and any hedged that have been enacted or substantively they are recorded within Revenue.
item, its risk management objectives, enacted at the balance sheet date.
its strategy for undertaking the various p Unit-linked liabilities and assets hedging transactions and its assessment, Deferred tax assets are recognised to backing unit-linked liabilities both at hedge inception and on an the extent that it is probable that future Investments in authorised unit trusts ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives taxable profit will be available against and other financial assets held by the life that are used in hedging transactions are which the deductible temporary company are recognised and measured highly effective in offsetting changes in fair differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax under IAS 39 which applies to investment value of hedged items.
is provided on temporary differences contracts that do not meet the insurance arising on investments in subsidiaries, contract definition under IFRS 4 Insurance In relation to fair value hedges which branches and associates, except where Contracts.
Accordingly the life fund assets meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the timing of the reversal of the temporary and liabilities are recorded at fair value, any gain or loss from re-measuring difference is controlled by the Group and with gains and losses recorded within the hedging instrument at fair value is it is probable that the temporary difference Revenue in the income statement in recognised immediately in the income will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
the year in which they arise.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged m Trade and other receivables q Financial liabilities risk is adjusted against the carrying Trade receivables are recorded initially at fair Items included within this caption on amount of the hedged item and value and subsequently at amortised cost.
the face of the balance sheet principally recognised in the income statement.
comprise debt securities in issue, Hedge accounting is discontinued when Impairments for specific bad and doubtful derivative financial instruments and hedge the hedging instrument expires or is sold, debts are made against receivables to accounting see note j above and terminated or exercised, or no longer reflect an assessment of irrecoverability deferred consideration arising from the qualifies for hedge accounting.
and are deducted from the relevant acquisition of NFC in 2006.
Such impairments are recorded financial liabilities that are recorded under In relation to hedges of a net investment within Administrative expenses in the the following headings: in a foreign operation, the portion of the income statement.
Deposits by customers and banks: gain or loss on the hedging instrument Trade and other payables: and that is determined to be an effective n Cash and cash equivalents Provisions.
hedge is recognised directly in equity Cash and cash equivalents comprise and the ineffective portion is recognised cash at bank and in hand and short-term Debt securities in issue are initially within Revenue in the income statement.
deposits with an original maturity of three recognised at cost, being the fair value On disposal of the foreign operation, the months or less.
Where the Group considers of the consideration received net of issue gain or loss on the hedging instrument that such items are not to be used for costs associated with the borrowing.
recognised directly in equity is transferred settling its liabilities, for example, securities After initial recognition, interest-bearing to the income statement.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 loans and borrowings are subsequently u Provisions interest method and is recorded in the measured at amortised cost using the Provisions are recognised when the income statement within Interest receivable effective interest method.
Amortised cost Group has a present obligation legal or and similar income or Interest payable is calculated by taking into account any constructive as a result of a past event, and similar charges, as appropriate.
issue costs, and any discount or premium it is probable that an outflow of resources on settlement.
Gains and losses are embodying economic benefits will be Interest banking recognised within Revenue in the income required to settle the obligation and a Interest receivable on the Groups Private statement when the liabilities are reliable estimate can be made of the Banking activities comprises interest derecognised.
receivable on debt securities and other fixed income securities, loans, advances The deferred consideration arising from Where the existence of an obligation and deposits placed, guarantee and the acquisition of NFC is categorised as at is possible, dependent on uncertain commitment commissions, and is fair value through profit or loss.
The liability events not wholly within the control of recognised using the effective interest represents the obligation the Group has the Group, or a present obligation cannot method.
Interest payable on banking to the former owners of NFC in respect be measured reliably, or it is not probable activities comprises interest payable of amounts linked to the performance that an outflow of resources embodying on deposits taken and debt securities of certain of the Groups hedge funds.
economic benefits will be required to settle in issue, and is recognised using the Such amounts are categorised as at the obligation, the Group discloses, but effective interest method.
fair value through profit or loss to avoid does not recognise, a contingent liability.
a measurement inconsistency with Fees and commissions corresponding assets held by the Group.
Where the Group expects to recover Asset management fees, investment amounts provided, for example under advisory fees, ad hoc advisory fees, r Deposits by customers and banks an insurance contract, the recovery is custody fees, stock lending commission, Deposits by banks are initially recognised recognised as a separate asset but only commitment fees, arrangement fees, at cost, being the fair value of the when the recovery is virtually certain.
guarantor fees, and Directors fees are consideration received net of any directly accrued over the period for which the attributable transaction costs incurred.
For provisions for surplus space, where service is provided.
After initial recognition, the liabilities are the effect of the time value of money is accounted for at amortised cost using material, provisions are determined by Private Banking transaction and loanthe effective interest method taking into discounting the expected future cash related fees, together with fees from account any attributable transaction costs.
flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current structured client facilitation transactions market assessments of the time value of are accrued over the period for which s Trade and other payables money and, where appropriate, the risks the service is provided.
Trade payables, other than long-term specific to the liability.
Where discounting employee benefits see note t below, is used, the increase in the provision due Asset management fees received in are recorded initially at fair value and to the passage of time is recognised as advance are taken to the balance sheet subsequently at amortised cost.
and amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of the provision of the t Long-term employee benefits v Own shares asset management service.
The period Long-term employee benefits consist Employee trusts have been established of provision of asset management service of surpluses deficits in defined benefit for the purposes of satisfying certain is estimated based on experience of pension schemes and deferred cash equity-based awards.
The holdings of average holding periods for investments awards under the Equity Compensation these trusts include shares that have not in the separate geographical locations Plan.
They are recorded at the present vested unconditionally in employees of where such fees are earned.
Redemptions value of the defined benefit obligation at the Group own shares.
are reviewed on an annual basis and the the balance sheet date less the fair value amortisation rate adjusted where there at the balance sheet date of plan assets Own shares are held for the short term has been a significant and lasting change out of which the obligations are to be to meet future award requirements and in redemption levels.
are recorded, at cost, as a deduction from equity.
Asset management fees received in For further details on the accounting advance in respect of structured product policy in respect of defined benefit w Revenue funds and the reimbursement of any schemes, see note z below.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that marketing and distribution fees paid to it is probable that the economic benefits the distributor as agent of the fund are The Group makes deferred cash awards will flow to the Group and the revenue can deferred and spread over the life of the to key employees under the Equity be reliably measured.
Unless otherwise fund on a straight-line basis.
Such Compensation Plan in the form of a stated, the types of revenue listed below deferred fees are released to the income notional investment in funds operated are all reported within Revenue in the statement on redemption.
Such awards do not income statement.
The following specific constitute share-based payments, but recognition criteria must also be met The Group is entitled to earn performance are accounted for in accordance with before revenue is recognised: fees from a number of clients where the IAS 19.
These awards are charged to performance of the clients assets exceeds Administrative expenses within the Interest non-banking defined benchmarks by an agreed level income statement in the performance Interest on non-banking activities comprises of outperformance over a set time period.
Awards that lapse are credited amounts due on the Groups investment Performance fees are recognised when to the income statement, again within capital and temporary surpluses or deficits the fee amount can be estimated reliably Administrative expenses, in the year in the Groups cash accounts held with and it is probable that the fee will be in which they lapse.
Interest receivable and payable not received.
Fees are normally recognised arising from the Groups Private Banking at the end of a performance period.
activities is recognised using the effective Financial statements Financial accounts 64 65 Dividends receivable Income from operating leases is Fair value is determined at the date of Revenue is recognised when the recognised within Revenue on a straightgrant and is equal to the market value at shareholders right to receive the payment line basis over the period of the lease.
Incentives given to enter into leases are amortised over the period of the lease.
Options granted over non-voting ordinary Returns from Private Equity investments shares under the Groups Share Option Prior to 1 July 2008, a small proportion As lessee, costs under operating leases Plan are measured at fair value at the of the Groups Private Equity investments are charged to the income statement as date of grant.
The fair value determined were classified as held at fair value Administrative expenses in equal is expensed on a straight-line basis over through profit or loss.
On this date, all amounts over the periods of the leases.
the vesting period, based on the Groups such investments were reclassified as Incentives received to enter into leases estimate of shares that will eventually available-for-sale see note i above.
are amortised over the period of the lease.
Fair value is measured by use of a stochastic option valuation model.
After initial recognition, investments which z Pensions and other postThe expected life used in the model has are classified as available-for-sale are employment benefits been adjusted, based on managements measured at fair value.
The Group operates a number of best estimate, for the effects of nonpension schemes around the world.
transferability, exercise restrictions, Gains or losses on investments held at For defined contribution schemes, and behavioural considerations.
fair value through profit or loss prior to pension contributions payable in respect their reclassification as available-for-sale of the accounting period are charged as Awards that lapse are credited to the on 1 July 2008 were recognised in the Administrative expenses to the income income statement in the year in which income statement.
Gains or losses on statement.
For funded defined benefit they lapse.
available-for-sale investments are schemes, the cost of providing benefits is recognised as a separate component determined separately for each plan using ab Foreign currency translation of equity until the investment is sold, the projected unit credit actuarial valuation The results of subsidiary undertakings, collected or otherwise disposed of, method.
The difference between the fair branches and associates drawn up or until the investment is determined to value of the plan assets and the present in currencies other than sterling are be impaired, at which time the cumulative value of the defined benefit obligation translated at average rates of exchange gain or loss previously reported in equity at the balance sheet date, together with ruling during the year.
The assets and is in the income statement.
adjustments for unvested past service liabilities of these entities are translated cost, is recognised as an asset or liability, at the rate of exchange ruling at the Carried interests are recognised in the as appropriate, in the balance sheet.
income statement on an accruals basis An asset arising, for example, as a result in accordance with the substance of the of past over-funding or the performance Exchange differences arising on the relevant contractual agreement.
Where of the plan investments is recognised translation of the results of these entities there is a contractual agreement to to the extent that it is recoverable either from the average rate used in the income receive such amounts subject to the in that it does not exceed the present statement to the closing rate used in the fulfilment of specified conditions, capital value of future contribution holidays or balance sheet are taken through equity.
gains receivable are recognised in the through refunds of contributions.
In addition, exchange differences arising income statement on an accruals basis on the translation of the equity of these in accordance with the substance of the All actuarial gains and losses are undertakings at the beginning of the year, relevant contractual agreement.
Where recognised in full in the statement together with hedges of such exposures, there is no such agreement, capital gains of recognised income and expense.
are also taken directly to equity.
receivable are recognised when the right to receive the payment is established.
aa Share-based payments Foreign currency assets and liabilities The Group makes equity-settled shareare translated at the rates of exchange x Cost of sales based payments to key employees ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any Commissions and distribution fees payable through awards over ordinary and nonexchange differences arising are taken to third parties are recognised over the voting ordinary shares and by the grant to the income statement within Revenue period for which the service is provided.
of market value share options over unless they relate to non-monetary items non-voting ordinary shares.
whose gains or losses are recognised Asset management fees paid in advance directly in equity.
For such non-monetary in respect of structured product funds and Awards over ordinary and non-voting items, the exchange components of those the reimbursement of any marketing and ordinary shares made under the Groups gains or losses are recognised in equity.
distribution fees paid to the distributor as Equity Compensation Plan are charged agent of the fund are deferred and spread at fair value as Administrative expenses ac Dividends payable over the life of the fund.
Fees paid to the in the income statement.
The fair value of Dividends payable are recognised when distributor but not yet charged that relate an award is calculated using the market the dividend is paid or approved by to deferred fees received are released to value of the shares on the date of grant, shareholders, whichever is earlier.
the income statement on redemption.
discounted for the dividends forgone over the average holding period of the award.
ad Exceptional items y Leases The fair value charges, adjusted to reflect Exceptional items are those significant Leases where the lessor retains actual and expected levels of vesting, are items which are required to be separately substantially all the risks and benefits spread over the performance period and disclosed by virtue of their size or of ownership of the asset are classified the vesting period of the awards.
incidence to enable a better understanding as operating leases.
Assets leased to of the Groups financial performance.
customers under agreements which Awards over ordinary shares made under transfer substantially all the risks and the Groups Equity Incentive Plan are rewards of ownership, with or without charged at fair value to the income ultimate legal title, are classified as statement over a five year vesting period.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 or delinquency in interest or principal The Group determines the appropriate 2.
Estimates and judgements payments, and whether national or local discount rate at the end of each year.
Estimates and judgements used in economic conditions correlate with This is the interest rate that should be used preparing the financial statements are defaults on the types of product held.
to determine the present value of estimated periodically evaluated and are based on future cash outflows expected to be historical experience and other factors, In respect of equity products, required to settle the pension obligations.
including expectations of future events consideration is given to whether there In determining the appropriate discount that are believed to be reasonable.
has been a significant or prolonged rate, the Group considers the interest rates The resulting accounting estimates will decline in fair value below cost.
of high-quality long-dated corporate bonds seldom equal the related actual results.
that are denominated in the currency in The estimates and assumptions that Impairment of other assets which the benefits will be paid.
have a significant effect on the carrying Goodwill and other assets that have amounts of assets and liabilities are indefinite useful lives are tested annually The other key assumption that impacts discussed below.
to determine whether they have suffered the carrying value of the obligation is that of any impairment.
Other intangible assets expected mortality rates.
Any assumption Valuation of quoted financial assets which have a finite useful economic life are made in this area is inherently uncertain.
where there is an active market reviewed for impairment whenever events The Groups mortality assumptions are Such assets are valued at the current or changes in circumstances indicate that based on standard mortality tables quoted bid price using price feeds from the carrying amount of the asset exceeds projected forwards ten years for current third party market participants.
pensioners and 20 years for future pensioners with the medium cohort Valuation of quoted financial assets For non-financial assets, the recoverable adjustment applied, augmented by where there is no active market amount of an asset or a cash-generating underpinning to provide for a constant From time to time quoted investments unit is determined based on value-in-use level of improvement in long-term held by the Group may not be actively calculations prepared on the basis of mortality rates.
In such cases, managements assumptions and the Group uses price feeds from third estimates.
The Group reviews its assumptions party market participants to determine annually in conjunction with its fair value.
For other financial assets, the recoverable independent actuaries and considers amount is determined based on the this adjustment appropriate given the Valuation of financial assets where estimated future cash flows.
geographical and demographic profile there is no quoted price of the scheme.
Such assets principally consist of Disclosure of the sensitivity of carrying investments in private equity, venture amounts of goodwill to the methods, Other assumptions for pension obligations and buy-out funds, hedge funds and assumptions and estimates underlying are based in part on current market funds of hedge funds.
Private equity, the calculation is included in the note conditions.
Further information, including a venture and buy-out funds are valued to the accounts concerning goodwill.
sensitivity analysis, is given in the note to in accordance with International Private the accounts concerning retirement Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Income taxes benefit obligations.
Guidelines and, where appropriate, The Group is subject to income taxes by independent professional valuers.
Judgement Surplus space Hedge funds and funds of hedge funds is required in determining the worldwide The Group periodically reviews its are valued using the last price quoted by provision for income taxes.
There are space requirements and makes provisions the relevant fund, adjusted to reflect any transactions and calculations for which where the Group has no current need changes in underlying market conditions the ultimate tax determination is uncertain for space to which the Group is already occurring between the date of the last during the ordinary course of business.
contractually committed under the terms quoted price and the balance sheet date.
Where the final tax outcome of these of an operating lease agreement.
The These determinations require significant matters is different from the amounts calculation of the required provision judgement particularly in determining that were initially recorded, such differences requires significant judgement, as the changes in fair value since the last formal will impact the income tax and deferred Group needs to estimate the provision valuation by the fund manager or advisor.
tax provisions in the period in which such based upon discounted future cash In making this judgement the Group determination is made.
outflows due to be paid under the lease evaluates amongst other factors the effect less any potential cash inflows from subof cash distributions and changes in the Pension obligations letting arrangements that the Group is business outlook for each fund due to The present value of the pension able to negotiate.
These cash flows are the financial health and performance of obligations depends on a number of then discounted for the remaining lease individual investments within each fund.
factors that are determined on an actuarial period.
In estimating these cash flows, basis using a number of assumptions.
the Group consults with external advisors Impairment of financial assets in the relevant location to understand the categorised as available-for-sale The assumptions used in determining potential to sub-let the space, the rental Assets categorised as available-for-sale the net charge credit for pension costs rates which could be achieved and the are reviewed at the end of each reporting include the expected long-term rate of potential amount and time period of any period for impairment.
If the period-end return on the plans assets and the leasehold inducements which may need fair value of an asset is less than the cost discount rate.
Any changes in these to be offered to successfully secure a or deemed cost of that asset, the Group assumptions will impact the carrying sub-tenant.
will assess whether there is objective amount of pension obligations.
evidence that the asset is impaired.
Disclosure of the sensitivity of carrying The expected return on plan assets amounts of provisions for surplus space For fixed income products, prime assumption is determined on a uniform to the methods, assumptions and considerations are whether the issuer basis, taking into consideration long-term estimates underlying their calculation is experiencing significant financial historical returns, asset allocation and future is included in the note to the accounts difficulties, whether there has been estimates of long-term investment returns.
a breach of contract, such as a default Financial statements Financial accounts 66 67 3.
Segmental reporting i Primary reporting format business segments The Group has four continuing business segments: Asset Management, Private Banking, Private Equity and Group.
Asset Management principally comprises investment management including advisory services, property, life company business and alternative assets: Private Banking principally comprises investment management and banking services provided to high net worth individuals and certain smaller institutions: Private Equity principally comprises the Groups investments in private equity, venture and buy-out funds and related vehicles: and Group consists of income on the Groups capital less Group costs and provisions.
The allocation of costs to individual business segments is undertaken in order to provide management information on the cost of providing services and to provide managers with a tool to manage and control expenditure.
Costs are allocated on a basis that aligns the charge with the resources employed by the Group in a particular area of its business.
Typical dynamic allocation bases are square footage occupied and number of staff employed by particular business segments.
Non-current assets held for sale are included within the Group segment.
Asset Inter-segment Management Private Banking Private Equity Group elimination Total Year ended 31 December 2008 mn mn mn mn mn mn External revenue 957.9 88.8 14.0 125.5 907.2 External net interest 28.6 28.6 Inter-segment interest payable 1.2 1.2 Total revenue 957.9 116.2 14.0 125.5 1.2 935.8 Cost of sales 204.9 4.9 0.3 210.1 Gross profit loss 753.0 111.3 14.0 125.8 1.2 725.7 Administrative expenses 541.6 73.1 5.0 27.9 647.6 Operating profit loss 211.4 38.2 19.0 153.7 1.2 78.1 External interest receivable and similar income 6.7 32.3 39.0 Inter-segment interest receivable 6.5 5.3 1.2 Interest receivable and similar income 13.2 27.0 1.2 39.0 Interest payable and similar charges 0.1 0.1 0.2 Net finance income 13.1 26.9 1.2 38.8 Share of profit loss of associates and joint ventures 6.6 0.4 6.2 Profit loss before tax 231.1 38.2 19.4 126.8 123.1 Exceptional items included in the analysis above are: Revenues 22.6 124.6 147.2 Administrative expenses 18.7 1.5 20.2 18.7 1.5 22.6 124.6 167.4 Profit loss before tax and exceptional items 249.8 39.7 3.2 2.2 290.5 Profit loss before tax 231.1 38.2 19.4 126.8 123.1 Administrative expenses include the following non-cash expenses: Share-based payments 21.5 1.3 1.6 24.4 Depreciation and amortisation of property, plant and equipment and software 10.7 0.7 0.5 11.9 Amortisation and impairment of other intangible assets 7.7 2.1 9.8 Bad and doubtful debts 2.4 1.2 3.6 Other provisions 3.5 2.7 6.2 45.8 5.3 0.5 4.3 55.9 Asset Inter-segment Management Private Banking Private Equity Group elimination Income tax Total Year ended 31 December 2008 mn mn mn mn mn mn mn 1 2 Segment assets 4,095.2 2,480.0 60.9 1,150.2 251.1 58.6 7,593.8 Segment liabilities 3,703.8 2,222.6 3.2 256.2 251.1 26.9 5,961.6 391.4 257.4 57.7 894.0 31.7 1,632.2 Capital expenditure on segment assets 14.7 1.1 0.4 16.2 1 Includes 21.9 million investment in joint ventures, 0.1 million investment in associates.
2 Includes 10.7 million investment in associates.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 3.
Segmental reporting continued Impairment losses and the reversal of impairment losses have been recognised in the year as follows: 2008 Asset Management Private Banking Private Equity Group Total mn mn mn mn mn Impairment losses recognised in profit or loss in respect of: 1 Financial assets 22.6 58.7 81.3 2 Intangible assets arising from business combinations 5.2 1.4 6.6 3 Bad and doubtful debts 2.4 1.2 3.6 7.6 2.6 22.6 58.7 91.5 1 Reported within revenue as an exceptional item.
2 Reported within administrative expenses as an exceptional item.
Inter-segment amounts represent interest payable and receivable on cash balances held by Private Banking on behalf of Group companies.
Asset Inter-segment Management Private Banking Private Equity Group elimination Total Year ended 31 December 2007 mn mn mn mn mn mn External revenue 991.4 87.6 48.1 41.0 1,168.1 External net interest 23.7 23.7 Inter-segment interest payable 1.7 1.7 Total revenue 991.4 109.6 48.1 41.0 1.7 1,191.8 Cost of sales 227.3 3.3 0.1 230.7 Gross profit 764.1 106.3 48.1 40.9 1.7 961.1 Administrative expenses 520.2 65.0 4.7 23.6 613.5 Operating profit 243.9 41.3 43.4 17.3 1.7 347.6 External interest receivable and similar income 7.6 15.5 23.1 Inter-segment interest receivable 8.0 6.3 1.7 Interest receivable and similar income 15.6 9.2 1.7 23.1 Interest payable and similar charges 0.2 0.3 0.5 Net finance income 15.4 8.9 1.7 22.6 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 7.2 15.1 22.3 Profit before tax 266.5 41.3 58.5 26.2 392.5 Administrative expenses include the following non-cash expenses: Share-based payments 28.0 2.3 0.1 2.5 32.9 Depreciation and amortisation of property, plant and equipment and software 8.1 0.6 8.7 Amortisation of other intangible assets 1.3 0.4 1.7 Provisions 0.1 0.2 5.3 5.4 37.5 3.1 0.1 2.8 37.9 Asset Inter-segment Management Private Banking Private Equity Group elimination Income tax Total Year ended 31 December 2007 mn mn mn mn mn mn mn 1 2 Segment assets 3,649.1 2,078.6 95.1 1,252.1 248.6 50.4 6,876.7 Segment liabilities 3,229.8 1,870.2 2.4 267.0 248.6 59.7 5,180.5 419.3 208.4 92.7 985.1 9.3 1,696.2 Capital expenditure on segment assets 28.5 0.3 1.7 30.5 1 Includes 15.4 million investment in joint ventures, 0.1 million investment in associates.
2 Includes 16.7 million investment in associates.
Segmental reporting continued Impairment losses and the reversal of impairment losses have been recognised in the year as follows: 2007 Asset Management Private Banking Private Equity Group Total mn mn mn mn mn Reversal of impairment losses recognised in profit or loss in respect of: 1 Bad and doubtful debts 0.1 0.1 1 Reported within administrative expenses.
ii Secondary segment information geographical segments The geographic analysis is based on the geographical location of the Groups clients.
The allocation of costs to individual geographic areas is undertaken in order to provide management information on the cost of providing services and to provide managers with a tool to manage and control expenditure.
Costs are allocated on a basis that aligns the charge with the resources employed by the Group in a particular location.
Typical dynamic allocation bases are square footage occupied and number of staff employed by different geographic areas.
Non-current assets held for sale are included in the Asia Pacific segment 2.0 million 2007: Americas segment 23.2 million and the Asia Pacific segment 14.3 million.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 4.
Exceptional items, revenues and expenses other disclosures 2008 2007 a Exceptional items comprise: mn mn Within revenues: Net losses on financial assets 147.2 Within administrative expenses: Redundancy costs 13.6 Impairment of intangible assets 6.6 20.2 Total exceptional items 167.4 The Group believes that the deterioration of the worlds financial markets that occurred during 2008 constituted rare events that had a material impact on the value of the Groups investment capital and intangible assets arising from business combinations.
As such, losses on such assets during the year have been classified as exceptional items, together with the cost of redundancies made as a direct consequence of market conditions.
2008 2007 b Included in revenues: mn mn Property rental income 4.3 3.0 1 Net gains losses on foreign exchange 107.3 7.0 Net losses gains on financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss 138.4 55.3 Carried interests and distributions from available-for-sale Private Equity financial assets 1.2 33.3 Other net losses gains on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 27.3 6.9 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets equities 31.4 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets debt securities 49.9 2 Amounts recycled through revenues in respect of available-for-sale financial assets 107.4 40.2 Net gains on fair value hedges hedged items 47.8 Net losses on fair value hedges hedging instruments 49.2 Hedge ineffectiveness recognised in revenue 1.4 Fee income from fiduciary activities 1,022.0 1,059.7 Interest income receivable by Private Banking subsidiaries on financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss 123.5 128.8 Interest income receivable by Private Banking subsidiaries on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 0.6 0.9 Interest expense payable by Private Banking subsidiaries on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss 95.5 106.0 Net interest income in Private Banking subsidiaries 28.6 23.7 1 Excludes foreign exchange on forward exchange contracts.
Such gains and losses are included in net losses gains on financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss.
2 Includes 70.2 million 2007: nil losses on financial assets that were reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category into the available-for-sale category on 1 July 2008.
If these investments had not been reclassified an additional 21.6 million 2007: nil fair value loss would have been recognised in revenue.
2008 2007 c Included in administrative expenses: mn mn Salaries and other remuneration 340.5 357.1 Social security costs 27.1 34.6 Other pension costs see note 5 19.4 11.4 Employee benefits expense 387.0 403.1 Operating lease payments 29.4 26.0 The average number of employees employed by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings during the year was: 2008 2007 Number Number Full-time employees 2,699 2,516 Contract and temporary staff 254 289 2,953 2,805 They were employed as follows all continuing operations : Asset Management 2,603 2,471 Private Banking 314 301 Private Equity 27 24 Group 99 2,953 2,805 Financial statements Financial accounts 70 71 4.
Exceptional items, revenues and expenses other disclosures continued Included in administrative expenses: Audit and non-audit fees 2008 2007 UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total mn mn mn mn mn mn Audit fees for the Annual Accounts 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 Year-end audit services to the subsidiaries of the Company 0.6 1.1 1.7 0.6 1.0 1.6 Other audit services provided pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.2 Tax services 0.4 0.5 0.9 0.2 0.4 0.6 Other services 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.3 1.9 1.9 3.8 1.7 1.6 3.3 d Included in net finance income: mn mn Bank interest receivable 15.5 7.8 1 Other interest receivable on financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss 6.6 2.7 Interest on financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss 16.9 12.6 Interest receivable and similar income 39.0 23.1 Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 0.1 Other interest payable on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss 0.1 0.5 Interest payable and similar charges 0.2 0.5 1 Includes 5.6 million 2007: nil interest on impaired financial assets.
Retirement benefit obligations 2008 2007 The charge for retirement benefit costs is as follows: mn mn Pension costs defined contribution plans 15.9 10.3 Pension costs defined benefit plans 3.4 0.9 Other post-employment benefits 0.1 0.2 19.4 11.4 The defined benefit scheme charge in respect of the UK scheme consists of: Current service cost 8.5 9.5 Expected return on scheme assets 34.9 35.3 Curtailment 0.5 Interest on scheme liabilities 28.8 25.6 Total charge credit in respect of the UK scheme 1.9 0.2 Charges in respect of other defined benefit schemes 1.5 1.1 Total defined benefit scheme charges 3.4 0.9 The principal scheme in the UK is the Schroders Retirement Benefits Scheme the Scheme which is non-contributory and administered by the Trustee.
It is a funded scheme comprising a defined benefits section and a defined contribution section.
It is open to new entrants and has 299 active members in the defined benefits section and 878 active members in the defined contribution section at 31 December 2008 2007: 313 and 871 respectively.
The most recent triennial valuation of the Scheme was carried out as at 1 January 2006 and disclosed that the market value of the assets of the Scheme represented 98 per cent.
of the liability, calculated on the funding ratio basis applicable to the Scheme, for the benefits that had accrued to members at that date allowing for future increases in earnings and pensions.
A triennial valuation as at 1 January 2009 is currently underway.
The Company paid effective contributions to the defined benefit section in 2008 of 35.8 per cent.
of pensionable salaries to cover the accrual of ongoing benefits.
For joiners on or after 1 June 1989, pensionable salaries for this purpose were subject to the statutory earnings cap which was in force until April 2006, after which this cap was replaced by a notional earnings cap.
The pension cost under IAS 19 for the defined benefit section of the Scheme has been determined by independent qualified actuaries, Hewitt Associates Limited, and is based on an assessment of the Scheme as at 1 January 2009.
This assessment was carried out using the projected unit method and the principal financial assumptions set out below.
Assets were taken at bid value and are held by an independent custodian.
The Group has not materially changed any of the principal financial assumptions underlying the calculation of the Schemes net financial position, although such assumptions have been amended where applicable to reflect current market conditions and expectations.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 5.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Over the year, the contributions to the defined benefits section of the Scheme totalled 12.4 million 2007: 18.9 million.
The balance sheet asset at 31 December 2008 was 22.4 million 2007: 42.5 million.
This asset is included within the consolidated balance sheet as the Group, via the employing companies of the Scheme, has an unconditional right to a refund of surplus assets once all members have left the Scheme.
Administration expenses and the levy payable to the Pensions Protection Fund are met directly by the Group.
The actual return on Scheme assets was 5.1 million 2007: 33.9 million.
The Group operates a number of smaller pension schemes around the world, some of which are funded defined benefit schemes with valuations performed regularly by qualified actuaries.
Actuarial assumptions vary according to the economic conditions of the countries in which the funds are situated.
In addition, there are several defined contribution schemes.
The additional disclosures required by IAS 19 are set out below.
Figures shown are for the defined benefits section of the Scheme only.
2008 2007 a Balance sheet assets: mn mn Surplus in the Scheme 22.4 42.5 2008 2007 b Income statement charge credit : mn mn Pension benefits 1.9 0.2 Pension benefits 2008 2007 The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: mn mn Present value of funded obligations 525.2 512.8 Fair value of plan assets 547.6 555.3 Net asset recognised in the balance sheet 22.4 42.5 Scheme assets do not include any of the Companys shares 2007: nil or buildings occupied by the Group 2007: nil.
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in respect of the Scheme in the statement of recognised income and expense is a 21.3 million loss 2007: 9.3 million gain.
The expected rates of return on individual categories of Scheme assets net of investment expenses only are determined by reference to the following: Bonds based on an outperformance of 0.6 per cent.
per annum above the yield on long-dated government bonds at the balance sheet date.
Equities based on an outperformance of 3.9 per cent.
Liability-matching based on an outperformance of 1.8 per cent.
Other based on the long-term expected return on cash implied by swaps yields, together with an expected return on hedge funds based on outperformance of 1.0 per cent.
per annum above the yield on long-dated government bonds at the balance sheet date 2007: based on the long-term expected return on cash implied by swaps yields.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The movement in the present value of the defined benefits obligation during the year is as follows: 2008 2007 mn mn At 1 January 512.8 500.8 Current service cost 8.5 9.5 Interest cost 28.8 25.6 Curtailment 0.5 Actuarial gains 9.4 8.0 Benefits paid 15.0 15.1 At 31 December 525.2 512.8 The movement in the fair value of Scheme assets during the year is as follows: 2008 2007 mn mn At 1 January 555.3 517.6 Expected return 34.9 35.3 Actuarial losses 40.0 1.4 Contributions by employer 12.4 18.9 Benefits paid 15.0 15.1 At 31 December 547.6 555.3 The fair value of Scheme assets at the balance sheet date is analysed as follows: 2008 2007 mn mn 1 Equity instruments 250.6 274.3 Debt instruments 45.4 33.2 Liability-matching assets 204.8 202.1 2 Other assets 46.8 45.7 547.6 555.3 1 Includes property.
During 2005, the Schemes investment policy was reviewed so that the Groups ability to meet its benefit payments could be better matched to its assets, both currently and in the future.
A new investment strategy was implemented in March 2006 by putting 35 per cent.
of the Schemes assets into liability-driven investments including bonds and derivatives such as interest rate and inflation swaps and cash so as to match the profile of the Schemes liabilities.
is invested in a diversified portfolio of growth assets with an allocation of approximately 45 per cent.
to a range of other asset classes, including property, private equity, hedge funds, currency, high yield and emerging market bonds.
The combination and the spread across the different asset classes has been designed to reduce risk while still generating an expected return in excess of the cost of meeting the Schemes liabilities.
The principal financial assumptions used were as follows: 2008 2007 % % Discount rate 5.7 5.7 Inflation rate 3.0 3.1 Future salary increases 4.5 4.6 Future pension increases for benefits earned before 13 August 2007 3.0 3.1 Future pension increases for benefits earned after 13 August 2007 2.1 2.3 Expected return on Scheme assets analysed as: Equities 7.8 7.8 Bonds 4.5 4.6 Liability-matching assets 5.7 4.9 Other assets 4.4 5.3 Number of years a current pensioner is expected to live beyond age 60: Men 28 28 Women 30 30 Number of years future pensioners currently aged 45 are expected to live beyond age 60: Men 30 30 Women 31 31 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 5.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The history of the Scheme is as follows: 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 mn mn mn mn mn Present value of defined benefit obligation 525.2 512.8 500.8 471.7 419.5 Fair value of Scheme assets 547.6 555.3 517.6 480.5 388.6 Surplus deficit in the Scheme 22.4 42.5 16.8 8.8 30.9 Experience adjustments on Scheme liabilities 2.0 0.6 1.0 10.1 1.4 Experience adjustments on Scheme assets 40.0 1.4 14.4 34.8 8.1 The amounts under IAS 19 that have been recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense SORIE are set out below: 2008 2007 mn % mn % Actual return less expected return on Scheme assets 40.0 1.4 % of year-end market value of assets 7.3 0.3 Experience gains and losses arising on Scheme liabilities 2.0 0.6 % of year-end present value of Scheme liabilities 0.4 0.1 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the Scheme liabilities 7.4 8.6 % of year-end present value of Scheme liabilities 1.4 1.7 Actuarial losses gains recognised in SORIE 30.6 6.6 % of year-end present value of Scheme liabilities 5.8 1.3 The sensitivity of the 2008 pension liabilities to changes in assumptions are as follows: Estimated Estimated reduction in reduction in pension pension liabilities liabilities Assumption Assumption change mn % Discount rate Increase by 0.5% per annum 47.6 9.0 Expected rate of salary increases Reduce by 0.5% per annum 2.5 0.5 Expected rate of pension increases in payment Reduce by 0.5% per annum 30.9 5.9 Life expectancy Reduce by one year 11.7 2.2 Membership details as at 31 December 2008 are as follows: Active workers 299 Total pensionable salary roll 22.5 million per annum Average age active 45 Average service in plan 10.7 Number of deferred members 1,483 Total deferred pensions at date of leaving Scheme 9.7 million per annum Average age deferred 48 Number of pensioners 615 Average age pensioner 66 Total pensions in payment 13.6 million per annum The Group currently expects to make contributions totalling approximately 8.5 million to the Scheme in 2009.
Contributions to cover the accrual of ongoing benefits in the Scheme are made on a monthly basis.
Directors a Total emoluments The aggregate emoluments of the Directors amounted to 5.1 million 2007: 10.1 million.
The aggregate of employer contributions to defined contribution arrangements in respect of the Directors during the year was 0.1 million 2007: 0.1 million.
Details of retirement benefits accruing under defined contribution arrangements and under the defined benefit section of the Scheme are provided in the remuneration report on page 45.
The emoluments of the highest paid Director during the year amounted to 1.8 million 2007: 3.3 million.
There were 250,000 2007: 230,063 market value share options exercised during 2008 resulting in a gain of 1.1 million 2007: 1.1 million.
There were no 2007: 16,294 nil cost options exercised during 2008, resulting in a gain of nil 2007: 0.2 million.
Further details relating to emoluments paid to Directors are given in the remuneration report.
b Rights to deferred cash and shares Details of Directors rights to deferred cash and shares are provided in the remuneration report.
c Directors loans Under the Companies Act 1985, Schroder & Co. Limited is permitted as a banking company to make loans to Directors of the Company.
There were no loans outstanding at 31 December 2008 2007: nil to Directors which need to be disclosed pursuant to the Act.
Tax expense 2008 2007 a Analysis of charge in the year mn mn Current tax: UK corporation tax on profits for the year 39.5 69.4 Double tax relief 38.2 41.3 1.3 28.1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 2.9 0.4 4.2 28.5 Foreign tax current 45.1 57.1 Foreign tax adjustments in respect of prior years 1.0 0.4 Total current tax 50.3 86.0 Deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary differences 3.5 0.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years 2.0 0.5 Effect of changes in corporation tax rates 2.8 Total tax charge for the year 51.8 88.8 2008 2007 b Analysis of charge credit to equity mn mn Current income tax on Equity Compensation Plan and share option awards 2.1 3.9 Deferred tax on Equity Compensation Plan and share option awards current year 11.3 1.5 Deferred tax on Equity Compensation Plan and share option awards prior year 0.4 Deferred tax on actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 8.6 2.0 Effect of changes in corporation tax rates 0.8 Tax charge credit reported in equity 1.0 2.6 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 7.
Tax expense continued c Factors affecting tax charge for the year The tax charge for the year is higher 2007: lower than the UK standard rate of corporation tax of 28 per cent.
The differences are explained below: 2008 2007 mn mn Profit before tax 123.1 392.5 1 Profit before tax multiplied by corporation tax at the UK blended rate of 28.5 per cent.
35.1 117.8 Effects of: Impact of profits losses arising in jurisdictions with higher tax rates 2.7 1.4 Impact of profits losses arising in jurisdictions with lower tax rates 7.5 36.2 Non-taxable income net of disallowable expenses 0.3 1.6 Movement in unrecognised deferred tax current year 12.3 2.4 Effect of share price movements on deferred tax assets relating to share schemes 2.8 Foreign exchange movements on tax balances 0.7 UK tax on profits of overseas entities after double tax relief 4.9 6.0 Overseas tax on profits of UK entities after double tax relief 0.6 0.7 Deferred tax adjustments in respect of changes in corporation tax rates 2.8 Prior year adjustments: UK prior year current 2.9 0.4 Foreign tax prior year current 1.0 0.4 Deferred tax prior year 2.0 0.5 Total tax charge for the year 51.8 88.8 1 On 1 April 2008, the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK was reduced from 30 per cent.
Dividends 2008 2007 Pence per Pence per mn share mn share Declared and paid in year: Final dividend paid 59.4 21.0 49.5 17.5 Interim dividend paid 27.3 10.0 25.4 9.0 86.7 31.0 74.9 26.5 Proposed for approval at AGM: Final dividend for 2008 57.6 21.0 Dividends of 3.5 million 2007: 2.9 million on shares held by the employee trusts have been waived.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent of 76.7 million 2007: 299.7 million by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, less the weighted average number of own shares.
The post-tax attributable profit adjusted for exceptional items is 210.9 million.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated as for basic earnings per share with a further adjustment to the weighted average number of shares to reflect the effects of all dilutive potential shares.
There is no difference between the profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent used in the basic and diluted earnings per share calculations.
Earnings per share continued Reconciliation of the figures used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share: 2008 2007 Number Number Weighted average number of shares used in calculation of basic earnings per share 279,534,683 285,824,617 Effect of dilutive potential shares share options 1,128,445 3,318,475 Effect of dilutive potential shares contingently issuable shares 632,053 1,104,262 Weighted average number of shares used in calculation of diluted earnings per share 281,295,181 290,247,354 There have been no material transactions involving shares or potential shares since the reporting date and before the completion of these financial statements.
Goodwill 2008 2007 mn mn At 1 January 95.2 65.3 Exchange translation adjustments 29.6 0.3 Additions 12.1 29.6 Reversal of contingent consideration 24.1 At 31 December 112.8 95.2 The reversal of the contingent consideration relates to the 2006 acquisition of NewFinance Holdings Limited.
The purchase agreement for the acquisition stated that an additional payment would become due should certain stringent performance criteria be met in 2008 and 2009.
Those criteria were not met in 2008, and the Directors now consider that it is not probable that the recognition criteria will be met in 2009.
As a result, the contingent consideration booked as additional goodwill in 2007 is now unlikely to become payable and has been reversed.
Additions to goodwill in the year arose from the acquisitions of Swiss Re Asset Management Funds Switzerland AG Swiss Re AM on 30 May 2008 7.5 million, the Singapore-based private client advisory unit of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia Singapore private client advisory on 29 February 2008 3.0 million and E. Sun Securities Investment Trust Co. Ltd. E. Sun SITE on 30 September 2008 1.6 million see note 39.
The goodwill acquired during the year represents the value assigned on acquisition to the future benefits which the Group expects to achieve from the acquired businesses where these benefits are not capable of being individually identified and separately recognised as either tangible or intangible assets.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to the cash generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
For all relevant acquisitions, the lowest level of CGU the Group is able to use to determine impairment is segment level.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows: 2008 2007 mn mn Asset Management 103.9 90.2 Private Banking 8.9 5.0 112.8 95.2 The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations.
The key assumptions on which management have based their five-year cash flow projections to arrive at the value-in-use are those regarding the market growth rates based on the Groups view of anticipated future market movements, a pre-tax discount rate of 13.3 per cent.
expected fund flows based on the aggregation of local expectations of country heads worldwide and expected changes to margins based on an analysis of the current fee structure flexed to take into account expected changes in product mix and the proportion of rebates payable to external distributors.
The growth rate used within the calculation is not disclosed as it is a commercially sensitive number.
The sensitivity of the carrying amounts of goodwill to the methods and assumptions used in the estimation of the recoverable amounts of the CGUs is small due to the amount of goodwill on the Groups balance sheet relative to the size of the Groups estimations of future profitability within the business segments to which that goodwill has been allocated.
The effect of an increase decrease of 1 per cent.
in the pre-tax discount rate used would be nil.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 11.
Intangible assets 2008 2007 Intangible Intangible assets arising assets arising from business from business combinations Software Total combinations Software Total mn mn mn mn mn mn Cost At 1 January 12.5 36.4 48.9 9.9 23.8 33.7 Exchange translation adjustments 11.5 3.4 14.9 0.5 0.5 Additions 20.5 9.3 29.8 2.6 12.2 14.8 Disposals 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 44.5 49.0 93.5 12.5 36.4 48.9 Amortisation At 1 January 2.7 21.1 23.8 1.0 17.7 18.7 Exchange translation adjustments 1.8 2.9 4.7 0.4 0.4 Amortisation and impairment for the year 9.8 4.5 14.3 1.7 3.1 4.8 Disposals 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 14.3 28.5 42.8 2.7 21.1 23.8 Carrying amount at 31 December 30.2 20.5 50.7 9.8 15.3 25.1 Additions to intangible assets arising from business combinations during the year comprise the client relationships acquired by the Group on the purchase of Swiss Re AM 17.0 million and the Singapore private client advisory business 2.2 million, and the Taiwanese Securities Investment Trust Enterprise licence 1.3 million acquired on the purchase of E. Sun SITE see note 39.
Fund management contracts are amortised over five to ten years.
The amortisation charge for the year was 3.2 million 2007: 1.7 million.
In addition, a charge for impairment of 6.6 million 2007: nil was taken in respect of reduced expected future cash inflows from entities acquired by the Group.
Discount rates of between 12 per cent.
were used in calculating the estimated levels of impairment.
The software assets included above are amortised over their useful lives.
The Group has no future commitments to purchase software 31 December 2007: commitments of 0.3 million.
None of the Groups intangible assets are internally generated.
Property, plant and equipment 2008 2007 Office Long leasehold Office Long leasehold equipment, premises and equipment, premises and computers and leasehold computers and leasehold 1 1 cars improvements Total cars improvements Total mn mn mn mn mn mn Cost At 1 January 21.3 44.6 65.9 17.5 31.7 49.2 Exchange translation adjustments 2.7 5.7 8.4 0.9 0.5 1.4 Additions 3.6 3.3 6.9 4.0 14.3 18.3 Disposals 0.8 0.6 1.4 1.1 1.9 3.0 At 31 December 26.8 53.0 79.8 21.3 44.6 65.9 Depreciation At 1 January 15.4 24.9 40.3 13.6 22.9 36.5 Exchange translation adjustments 2.2 3.6 5.8 0.7 0.5 1.2 Depreciation charge for the year 2.5 4.9 7.4 2.2 3.4 5.6 Disposals 0.8 0.6 1.4 1.1 1.9 3.0 At 31 December 19.3 32.8 52.1 15.4 24.9 40.3 Net book value at 31 December 7.5 20.2 27.7 5.9 19.7 25.6 1 Includes lease deposits of 1.8 million 2007: 1.0 million.
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over their useful lives.
At 31 December 2008 and 2007, none of the above assets were held under finance leases.
The Group has no future commitments to purchase property, plant and equipment 31 December 2007: commitments of 0.1 million.
Associates and joint ventures 2008 2007 mn mn Associates 10.8 16.8 Joint ventures 21.9 15.4 Associates and joint ventures 32.7 32.2 The interest in associates comprised: Groups share of postacquisition Equity reserves Total mn mn mn At 1 January 2008 5.7 11.1 16.8 Capital redemptions 0.2 5.4 5.6 Loss for the year after tax 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2008 5.5 5.3 10.8 The principal associate, Schroder Ventures Investments Limited SVIL, is unlisted and engaged in private equity investment.
Its results included in these accounts are shown below, together with the Groups percentage interest therein at 31 December 2008.
It is incorporated and operates in Guernsey.
Particulars of issued share and loan capital of the principal associate at 31 December 2008 are: Percentage owned by the Class Number Issued capital Group Guernsey Schroder Ventures Investments Limited Ordinary shares 446,200 4,462 50 Deferred shares 107,200 1,072 50 Redeemable preference shares 2,119,450 2,119 50 B redeemable preference shares 441,559 441,559 C redeemable preference shares 1,952,620 1,953 The financial statements of SVIL are prepared to 30 June each year.
Accounts are prepared to this date so that the companys year end is coterminous with those of its major investments.
For the purposes of applying the equity method of accounting, the interim financial statements of SVIL have been used.
When equity accounting for the investment in SVIL, the Group does not recognise its share of the unrealised gains or losses arising on SVILs investments, except to the extent that such unrealised reserves fall below zero.
As at 31 December 2007, unrealised reserves were greater than zero and the Groups share of SVILs profit for 2007 does not therefore equate to SVILs profit for the year multiplied by the Groups percentage ownership.
Summarised financial information in respect of the Groups associates is set out below: 2008 2007 Other Other SVIL associates Total SVIL associates Total mn mn mn mn mn mn Total assets 21.7 0.6 22.3 66.1 0.3 66.4 Total liabilities 0.5 0.1 0.6 9.2 0.1 9.3 Net assets 21.2 0.5 21.7 56.9 0.2 57.1 Groups share of associates net assets 10.6 0.2 10.8 16.7 0.1 16.8 Revenue 0.6 0.1 0.5 33.4 0.8 34.2 Loss profit for the year 0.6 0.1 0.7 32.7 0.8 33.5 Groups share of associates loss profit for the year 0.3 0.1 0.4 14.9 0.2 15.1 The Group has a contractual commitment to the further purchase of share capital in SVIL of 3.3 million, subject to call.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 13.
Associates and joint ventures continued Joint ventures The Groups principal joint venture is a 30 per cent.
interest in the ordinary share capital of Bank of Communications Schroder Fund Management Co. Ltd. which is involved in the management of funds in China.
The Group accounts for its holdings in joint ventures using the equity method.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of the joint ventures is as follows: 2008 2007 China joint Other joint China joint Other joint venture ventures Total venture ventures Total mn mn mn mn mn mn 1 1 Non-current assets 0.7 1.5 2.2 1.0 1.6 2.6 Current assets 24.3 0.3 24.6 17.4 0.2 17.6 Non-current liabilities 0.2 0.2 0.9 0.9 Current liabilities 4.6 0.1 4.7 3.7 0.2 3.9 Total equity 20.2 1.7 21.9 13.8 1.6 15.4 Revenue 16.2 0.5 16.7 14.4 0.4 14.8 Expenses 9.8 0.3 10.1 7.3 0.3 7.6 Groups share of joint ventures profit for the year 6.4 0.2 6.6 7.1 0.1 7.2 1 Balance consists of goodwill.
Assets backing unit-linked liabilities Reconciliation of investments in authorised unit trusts to liabilities linked to life company investments: 2008 2007 mn mn Investments in authorised unit trusts 1,510.7 1,818.6 1 Other financial assets 1,602.4 907.8 1 Cash and cash equivalents 121.6 1.4 Unit-linked liabilities 3,234.7 2,727.8 1 Represents the assets of underlying funds in which the life company invests where the life company is in a position to be able to exercise control over those funds.
The above assets and unit-linked liabilities arise within the Groups wholly-owned entity, Schroder Pension Management Limited the life company, which purchases units in open-ended authorised unit trusts on behalf of clients seeking to invest in unit trusts with a life assurance wrapper.
The Group has negligible exposure to credit risk in relation to the investments of the life company as the risks and rewards associated with its investments are borne by the investors in the life companys funds and not by the life company itself.
As is common practice in the industry, the life company has granted floating charges over its long term assets to its reinsured policy holders.
The floating charges convert into fixed charges in the event of the insolvency of the life company.
The charge ensures that such policy holders rank equally with direct policy holders in the event of the insolvency or winding-up of the life company.
Non-current financial assets 2008 Fair value Held to through profit maturity or loss Available-for-sale Total mn mn mn mn Equities listed 24.1 24.1 Equities unlisted 36.8 36.8 Debt securities listed 69.0 0.2 69.2 Debt securities unlisted 0.5 0.5 Investments 69.0 61.6 130.6 Derivative contracts see note 26 24.2 24.2 69.0 24.2 61.6 154.8 2007 Fair value Held to through profit maturity or loss Available-for-sale Total mn mn mn mn Equities listed 5.4 18.2 23.6 Equities unlisted 14.1 81.2 95.3 Debt securities listed 88.6 88.6 Other unlisted 0.1 0.5 0.6 Investments 88.6 19.6 99.9 208.1 Derivative contracts see note 26 12.7 12.7 88.6 32.3 99.9 220.8 The Groups held to maturity financial assets are held within the Groups Private Banking operations as part of their banking book.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are held for trading, except for 7.8 million held at 31 December 2007 in respect of unlisted equities which were designated at fair value through profit or loss in order to significantly reduce a measurement inconsistency that would otherwise have arisen from measuring this asset and its related liability on a different basis.
The liability was linked to the fair value of this financial asset.
Effective from 1 July 2008, the Group adopted the amendment to IAS 39 issued in October 2008 see note 1 a and reclassified 10.8 million of held for trading equity instruments out of the fair value through profit or loss category and into the available-for-sale category.
The carrying value of the reclassified financial assets at the balance sheet date is 7.6 million.
Trade and other receivables 2008 2007 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total mn mn mn mn mn mn Trade and other receivables held at amortised cost: Fee debtors 41.5 41.5 52.6 52.6 Settlement accounts 77.6 77.6 52.4 52.4 Accrued income 133.4 2.4 135.8 151.3 4.7 156.0 Other debtors 86.4 3.5 89.9 37.6 2.6 40.2 338.9 5.9 344.8 293.9 7.3 301.2 Non-financial instruments: Prepayments 13.6 0.9 14.5 6.8 6.8 Other debtors 6.4 6.4 4.5 4.5 358.9 6.8 365.7 305.2 7.3 312.5 All trade and other receivables listed above are non-interest bearing.
The carrying amount of the non-interest bearing trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 17.
Current financial assets 2008 Fair value Held to through maturity profit or loss Available-for-sale Total mn mn mn mn Equities listed 48.5 53.6 102.1 Equities unlisted 39.5 124.7 164.2 Debt securities listed 72.3 363.1 184.6 620.0 Debt securities unlisted 704.4 10.7 3.6 718.7 Investments 776.7 461.8 366.5 1,605.0 Derivative contracts see note 26 56.7 56.7 776.7 518.5 366.5 1,661.7 2007 Fair value Held to through maturity profit or loss Available-for-sale Total mn mn mn mn Equities listed 405.1 53.9 459.0 Equities unlisted 291.7 4.2 295.9 Debt securities listed 35.4 302.8 338.2 Debt securities unlisted 820.4 25.4 845.8 Investments 855.8 1,025.0 58.1 1,938.9 Derivative contracts see note 26 29.7 29.7 855.8 1,054.7 58.1 1,968.6 The Groups held to maturity investments are held within the Groups Private Banking operations as part of their banking book.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are held for trading, except for 8.8 million 2007: 7.8 million in respect of unlisted equities which are designated at fair value through profit or loss in order to significantly reduce a measurement inconsistency that would otherwise arise from measuring this asset and its related liability on a different basis.
The liability is linked to the fair value of this financial asset.
Effective from 1 July 2008, the Group adopted the amendment to IAS 39 issued in October 2008 see note 1 a and reclassified 333.1 million of held for trading equity instruments and 136.7 million of held for trading debt securities out of the fair value through profit or loss category and into the available-for-sale category.
The Group expects to recover 118.4 million in estimated cash flows from the reclassified debt securities.
These debt instruments had a weighted average effective interest rate of 5.0 per cent.
The carrying value of the reclassified financial assets at the balance sheet date is 262.1 million.
Loans and advances to customers of Private Banking subsidiaries continued An impairment charge of 1.2 million 2007: reversal of impairment charge of 0.1 million has been charged to the income statement in respect of loans and advances to customers of Private Banking subsidiaries.
Factors considered in determining whether impairment has taken place include how many days past the due date a receivable is, deterioration in the credit quality of a counterparty, and knowledge of specific events that could influence a debtors ability to repay an amount due.
Cash and cash equivalents 2008 2007 mn mn Cash at bank and in hand 866.6 633.9 Cash equivalents 201.0 81.6 1,067.6 715.5 Cash equivalents principally comprise cash on short-term deposit with banks.
The book value of cash and cash equivalents approximates to their fair value.
Non-current assets held for sale From time to time, Group companies inject capital into funds operated by the Group seed capital.
Where the Group holds more than 50 per cent.
of the fund in which it is investing and where voting rights are attached to the holding, the Group technically controls the fund and it becomes a subsidiary of the Group.
Where the Group is actively seeking to reduce its holding within 12 months, the fund is classified as being held for sale as it is considered highly probable that the fund will not remain under the control of the Group one year after the original investment is made.
If the Group still retains control of the fund after this time, the fund ceases to be classified as held for sale and is consolidated.
2008 2007 mn mn Seed capital classified as being held for sale 2.0 37.5 At 31 December 2008, the fair value of non-current assets held for sale was 2.0 million 2007: 38.0 million.
In the year to 31 December 2008, two investments in funds were classified as non-current assets held for sale.
The six funds in which the Group held seed capital investments at the start of the year ceased to be classified as non-current assets held for sale as they no longer met the conditions within IFRS 5 regarding such classifications.
Investments cease to be classified as held for sale when they are no longer controlled by the Group.
This may happen either through sale of the investment and or dilution of the Groups holding.
The effect of reclassifying these funds on the results of operations is to increase revenue by 0.5 million in 2008 2007: increase of 1.1 million.
1.3 million 2007: 1.0 million has been charged to revenue within the income statement in relation to non-current assets held for sale.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of the assets.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 21.
Financial liabilities 2008 2007 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total mn mn mn mn mn mn Deferred consideration payable on acquisitions 8.8 8.8 8.1 7.9 16.0 Derivative contracts see note 26 100.2 26.4 126.6 51.4 12.4 63.8 109.0 26.4 135.4 59.5 20.3 79.8 All financial liabilities are held at fair value through profit or loss.
The derivative contracts are held for trading.
The deferred consideration, the value of which is linked to the fair value of certain unlisted equities held by the Group as an economic hedge, is designated at fair value through profit or loss to significantly reduce a measurement inconsistency that would otherwise arise from measuring this liability and the related asset on different bases.
Included in current derivative contracts are forward foreign exchange contracts with a fair value of 27.2 million 2007: 6.1 million held to hedge net investments in foreign operations.
2008 2007 mn mn Maturing repricing whichever is earlier of financial liabilities excluding derivatives in: Less than 1 year 8.8 8.1 1 2 years 7.9 8.8 16.0 22.
Deferred tax a Deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax liabilities represent temporary differences, including those arising from bonuses.
2008 2007 mn mn At 1 January 2.7 2.4 Exchange translation adjustments 1.3 0.2 Income statement expense 0.4 1.0 Transfers 0.3 0.9 At 31 December 4.1 2.7 2008 Temporary Accelerated differences Tax losses capital including carried allowances bonuses forward Total b Deferred tax assets mn mn mn mn At 1 January 4.5 36.8 1.5 42.8 Exchange translation adjustments 0.1 4.7 4.8 Changes in timing differences income statement expense credit 1.0 0.1 0.1 1.0 Debit taken to equity 3.2 3.2 Transfers 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 3.6 38.1 1.4 43.1 Financial statements Financial accounts 84 85 22.
Deferred tax continued 2007 Temporary Accelerated differences Tax losses capital including carried allowances bonuses forward Total mn mn mn mn At 1 January 6.1 37.1 1.2 44.4 Exchange translation adjustments 0.7 0.7 Changes in timing differences income statement expense credit 1.3 0.7 1.6 1.0 Effect of changes in tax rates income statement expense 0.3 1.2 1.3 2.8 Debit taken to equity 0.5 0.5 Effect of changes in tax rates debit taken to equity 0.8 0.8 Acquisitions 1.7 1.7 Transfers 0.9 0.9 At 31 December 4.5 36.8 1.5 42.8 Included in deferred tax assets relating to temporary differences including those arising from bonuses is an asset relating to UK tax deductions for share-based remuneration which are dependent on the prices of Schroders ordinary and non-voting ordinary shares at the time the awards are exercised.
These have been recognised based on the share prices as at 31 December 2008.
Subsequent to the end of the period, Schroders share prices have fallen.
If the asset were recognised at the share price on 9 March 2009, the deferred tax assets would be reduced by 2.6 million, of which 1.7 million would be recognised as a charge in the income statement.
A deferred tax asset of 12.9 million 2007: 16.3 million relating to realised and unrealised capital losses has not been recognised as there is insufficent evidence that there will be sufficient taxable gains in the future against which the deferred tax asset could be utilised.
A deferred tax asset of 47.8 million 2007: 21.4 million relating to losses and other temporary differences has not been recognised as there is insufficient evidence that there will be sufficient taxable profit against which these losses and temporary differences can be utilised.
This unrecognised deferred tax includes an amount of 15.1 million 2007: 15.1 million relating to US losses of 33.4 million 2007: 33.5 million, which are subject to a minimum expiry period of 12 years.
The aggregate amount of gross temporary differences regarding investments in subsidiaries is 29.0 million 2007: 164.3 million.
Deferred tax has not been provided as the relevant parent company is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary diferences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
A deferred tax asset of 9.1 million 2007: 5.6 million relating to Excess Unrelieved Foreign Tax has not been recognised as there is insufficient evidence that there will be sufficient taxable profit in the future against which the deferred tax asset could be utilised.
Provisions Legal Surplus space and tax and other Total mn mn mn At 1 January 2008 2.6 10.3 12.9 Exchange translation adjustments 1.0 0.8 1.8 Unwinding of discounts 0.20.2 Provisions utilised 0.2 1.9 2.1 Additional provisions charged in the year 3.5 2.7 6.2 Unused amounts reversed in the year 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2008 6.8 12.1 18.9 Current 2008 6.8 1.9 8.7 Non-current 2008 10.2 10.2 6.8 12.1 18.9 Current 2007 2.6 1.8 4.4 Non-current 2007 8.58.5 2.6 10.3 12.9 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 23.
Provisions continued The Groups provisions are expected to mature in the following time periods: 2008 2007 mn mn Less than 1 year 8.7 4.4 1 2 years 2.3 1.6 2 3 years 1.8 1.4 3 4 years 1.7 1.4 4 5 years 1.7 1.5 More than 5 years 3.3 4.3 Effect of discounting 0.6 1.7 10.2 8.5 18.9 12.9 Legal and tax The amount is in respect of the balance of a provision in respect of matters covered by indemnification obligations under the terms of the sale of the investment banking business in 2000 and amounts in respect of a potential overseas tax liability.
Details are not given as the Directors feel that to do so may prejudice the Group.
The timing of resolution of legal claims is subject to uncertainty, but it is possible that those matters will have been resolved by 31 December 2009.
Surplus space Provisions of 11.4 million 2007: 9.7 million have been made against certain leaseholds in connection with surplus space.
The provisions have been made taking into account residual lease commitments, other outgoings and sub-letting arrangements.
In arriving at the provisions, the cash flows have been discounted at rates representing an estimate of the interest rates relevant to the period of provision.
The weighted average of these rates is 3.6 per cent.
It is envisaged that the provisions will be utilised on an even basis until 2015.
The calculation of the surplus space provisions involves two principal assumptions: an estimation of the time value of money to the Group, and the mitigating effects of sub-letting income receivable.
Cash outflows and inflows are predominantly contractually agreed fixed amounts.
The effect on the provisions of an increase decrease of 1 per cent.
in the discount rate used in the calculation would be 0.5 million.
The sensitivity of the carrying amounts of surplus space provisions to the methods and assumptions used in their estimation is therefore not considered to be significant.
Trade and other payables 2008 2007 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total mn mn mn mn mn mn Financial liabilities at amortised cost: Settlement accounts 88.4 88.4 128.9 128.9 Trade creditors 23.9 23.9 23.3 23.3 Social security 20.4 15.2 35.6 19.7 16.9 36.6 Accruals 223.6 5.8 229.4 238.1 30.0 268.1 Other liabilities 31.0 39.7 70.7 14.9 28.1 43.0 387.3 60.7 448.0 424.9 75.0 499.9 Non-financial instruments: Deferred income 6.7 8.4 15.1 9.4 13.0 22.4 Other liabilities 7.4 0.9 8.3 16.0 1.0 17.0 Retirement benefit obligations 7.4 7.4 4.5 4.5 Non-equity minority interests see note 33 9.9 9.9 23.8 23.8 411.3 77.4 488.7 474.1 93.5 567.6 The carrying amount of the financial liabilities at amortised cost approximates to their fair value.
Non-equity minority interests arise where non-current assets previously classified as being held for sale see note 20 are consolidated.
When this occurs, the Group acquires a liability in respect of minority interests in the funds of which the Group has control.
Such minority interests are distinguished from equity minority interests in that the Group does not hold an equity stake in such funds.
Trade and other payables continued The Groups financial liabilities at amortised cost are expected to mature in the following time periods: 2008 2007 mn mn Less than 1 year 387.3 424.9 1 2 years 34.1 35.2 2 3 years 9.9 30.1 3 4 years 3.0 1.4 4 5 years 2.0 2.0 More than 5 years 11.7 6.3 60.7 75.0 448.0 499.9 25.
Derivative contracts a Why the Group uses derivatives The Group holds derivatives for risk management and customer facilitation purposes only.
The Group does not hold derivatives for trading or other speculative purposes.
Risk management: the Group actively seeks to limit and manage its exposures to risk where that exposure is not desired by the Group.
This may take the form of unwanted exposures to a particular currency, type of interest rate or other price risk.
By purchasing or selling derivative contracts, the Group is able to mitigate or eliminate such exposures.
The principal risk the Group faces through such use of derivative contracts is one of credit risk.
For details of how the Group manages its exposures to credit risk, see b below and note 27.
Customer facilitation: The Groups Private Banking entities are involved in providing portfolio management, banking and investment advisory services, primarily to private clients.
In carrying out this business they transact as agent and principal in financial assets and liabilities in order to meet customer facilitation requirements.
The Groups policy is to hedge, as appropriate, exchange rate and interest rate risk on its customer facilitation positions using foreign exchange and interest rate contracts.
This hedging of equal and opposite risks seeks to eliminate market risk, but does not eliminate the possibility of credit risk.
For details of how the Group manages its exposures to credit risk, see b below and note 27. b What kind of derivatives the Group uses Currency forwards represent commitments to sell or purchase foreign and domestic currency, including undelivered spot transactions.
Foreign currency and interest rate futures are contractual obligations to receive or pay a net amount based on changes in currency rates or interest rates or to buy or sell foreign currency or a financial instrument on a future date at a specified price, established in an organised financial market.
Forward rate agreements are individually negotiated interest rate futures for cash settlement at a future date of the difference between a contracted rate of interest and the current market rate, based on a notional principal amount.
For derivative contracts the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the fair value of the positions and this is mitigated by either cash or marketable assets as collateral.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 26.
Derivative contracts continued 2008 2007 Notional Notional amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities mn mn mn mn mn mn Interest rate contracts 141.4 2.1 4.1 5,921.1 6.6 6.4 Forward foreign exchange contracts 793.5 52.7 96.4 6,898.4 11.7 33.6 Equity contracts 309.7 20.1 20.7 197.7 21.1 20.1 Commodity contracts 154.7 6.0 5.4 37.6 3.0 3.7 1,399.3 80.9 126.6 13,054.8 42.4 63.8 The notional amounts of certain types of financial instruments provide a basis for comparison with instruments recognised on the balance sheet but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash flows involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Groups exposure to credit or price risks.
The derivative instruments become favourable assets or unfavourable liabilities as a result of fluctuations in market interest rates, indices, foreign exchange rates and other relevant variables relative to their terms.
The aggregate contractual or notional amount of derivative financial instruments on hand, the extent to which instruments are favourable or unfavourable, and thus the aggregate fair values of derivative financial assets and liabilities, can fluctuate significantly from time to time.
Derivative contracts continued Currency and interest rate swaps are commitments to exchange one set of cash flows for another.
Swaps result in an economic exchange of currencies or interest rates for example, fixed rate for floating rate or a combination of all these i. e. cross-currency interest rate swaps.
No exchange of principal takes place, except for certain currency swaps.
The Groups credit risk represents the potential cost to replace the swap contracts if counterparties fail to perform their obligations.
This risk is monitored on an ongoing basis with reference to the current fair value, a proportion of the notional amount of the contracts and the liquidity of the market.
To control the level of credit risk taken, the Company assesses counterparties using the same techniques as for its lending activities.
Foreign exchange, equity and interest rate options are contractual agreements under which the seller writer grants the purchaser holder the right, but not the obligation, either to buy a call option or sell a put option at or by a set date or during a set period, a specific amount of a foreign currency or a financial instrument at a predetermined price.
The seller receives a premium from the purchase in consideration for the assumption of foreign exchange, equity or interest rate risk.
Options may be either exchange-traded or negotiated between the Group and a customer or market counterparty OTC.
The Group is exposed to credit risk on purchased options only, and only to the extent of their carrying amount, which is their fair value.
Financial instrument risk management The Group is subject to market risk throughout its business.
In addition, operational, liquidity and credit risk exposures exist within the business.
The effectiveness of the Groups risk management process is, therefore, critical to its soundness and profitability and considerable resources are dedicated to this area.
Risk management is the direct responsibility of the Groups senior management.
The Schroder Group Risk and Compliance functions are responsible for monitoring the overall risk environment.
The Group has established a control environment that ensures risks are reviewed regularly and that all risk controls operating throughout the Group are in accordance with regulatory requirements.
In addition, an independent assessment of the risk management process and the fundamental risk assumptions is provided by Schroder Group Internal Audit.
Credit risk The Group has exposure to credit risk from its normal activities where the risk is that a counterparty will be unable to pay in full amounts when due.
The Group carefully manages its exposure to credit risk by establishing lending policies which include types of acceptable collateral and minimum lending margins, setting limits for individual exposures and sectors and by taking security.
All individual facility requests are presented to the relevant Private Bank credit committees and exposures against limits are monitored daily.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of its financial assets less the collateral held on its loans and advances to customers.
Loans and receivables at amortised cost Financial assets at amortised cost principally comprise loans and advances to customers, fee debtors, settlement accounts and cash and cash equivalents.
Loans and advances to customers are usually fully secured on a range of assets including property both residential and commercial, cash, client portfolios and insurance policies.
It is the policy of the Groups Private Banking entities not to advance client facilities on an unsecured basis although short-term facilities may be considered on an exceptional basis.
As at 31 December 2008, the Group had no 2007: nil loans and advances to customers that were past due and not impaired.
Fee debtors arise principally within the Groups institutional business and amounts are monitored regularly by local offices.
Historically, default levels have been insignificant, and, unless a client has withdrawn funds, there is an ongoing relationship between the Group and the client.
Although the Group is usually managing client cash representing a large multiple of the amount owed to the Group by the client, the Group does not hold any of the assets it invests on behalf of its clients as collateral.
The Groups fee debtors that are past due but are not considered to be impaired are presented below.
2008 2007 mn mn Not older than 30 days 2.7 3.0 Older than 30 days not older than 45 days 2.6 1.0 Older than 45 days not older than 60 days 2.3 2.7 Older than 60 days not older than 90 days 2.3 1.4 Older than 90 days not older than 120 days 1.0 1.2 Older than 120 days not older than 180 days 0.7 0.9 Older than 180 days 0.3 1.5 11.9 11.7 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 27.
Financial instrument risk management continued The credit risk attributable to settlement accounts is 100 per cent.
of the nominal amount involved.
However, the period of exposure is short and the majority of the counterparties are unit trusts managed by the Group.
The Groups cash and cash equivalents is invested primarily in current accounts and on deposit with well-rated UK and overseas banks.
Held to maturity financial assets All assets classified as held to maturity financial assets are held within the Private Banks treasury book and are unsecured.
Policies and limits are set by the relevant Private Bank credit committees and monitored daily.
of the treasury portfolio is rated A or better.
The portfolio has no exposures to emerging markets, sub-investment grade assets or any asset-backed securities.
The Private Banks take a conservative approach to their treasury investments which are concentrated in terms of industrial sectors purely to well-rated UK and overseas banks and government securities.
All assets within the treasury book are unsecured.
No held to maturity financial assets or loans and advances to banks were impaired during the year 2007: nil or are past due as at 31 December 2008 2007: nil.
Financial assets held at fair value Such assets comprise investments in equities, debt securities and derivative instruments with positive fair values.
Substantially all of the Groups investments in equities at fair value are in listed companies or in listed and unlisted funds managed by the Group.
The Group also has investments in unlisted private equity funds.
For each type of equity and debt security investment, the maximum credit risk is the carrying value.
Breakdown of debt securities per investment grade as at 31 December: 2008 2007 2 Credit rating : Sovereign 29% 12% AAA 26% 54% AA 11% AA 16% 4% AA 3% A 7% 17% A 3% 5% A 1% Non-investment grade 4% 8% 100% 100% 2 Standard & Poor ratings Moody ratings.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk includes the risk that Schroders cannot meet its obligations as they fall due or can only do so at a cost.
The principal liquidity risk the Group faces concerns its Private Banking liabilities.
The liquidity policy is to maintain sufficient liquidity to cover any cash flow funding, meet all obligations as they fall due and maintain the solvency of the Private Banks as well as the rest of the Group.
This is maintained through the management of the Private Banks treasury against limits set and monitored daily.
For details of maturity analyses, see notes 18, 21, 23, 24, 25 and 26, although, in practice, customer deposits tend to be repaid later than on the earliest date on which repayment can be required.
In terms of non Private Banking liquidity, the Groups policy is that its subsidiaries should trade solvently and have adequate capital for all activities undertaken in the normal course of business.
In particular, all companies should have sufficient capital to meet regulatory requirements, keep an appropriate credit standing with counterparties, and maintain sufficient liquid funds to meet peak working capital requirements.
Financial instrument risk management continued In total, the Group holds investment capital of just under 900 million, over half of which is in short-term bank deposits or is invested in liquid securities with maturity dates of less than three months.
Liquidity in the Groups investment capital portfolios is monitored on a regular basis.
Schroders has no committed standby lines 2007: nil.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
In the Private Banks, interest rates are monitored against policies and limits set by the relevant risk committee.
Schroders treasury policy is to hedge fixed-rated assets and liabilities back to the floating rate as much as possible and therefore outright interest rate risk arises mainly from the decision to allow a limited amount of mismatch between the cash flows.
Within the Private Banks, three methods are used for monitoring interest rate risk: Sensitivity analysis PV01 this assesses the impact on Schroders current net worth against a one basis point parallel rise in interest rates and is calculated daily for each currency and then in aggregate.
Sensitivity analysis PV100 this assesses the impact on Schroders current net worth against a 100 basis point parallel rise in interest rates and is calculated regularly for each currency and then in aggregate.
Stress testing PV200 this is calculated in the same way as the PV01, but against the much more severe change of a 200 basis point movement both up and down in interest rates.
Interest rate risk in the Private Banks is limited due to the short-term nature of the Private Banks financial assets.
In the case of changes in market interest rates, the Private Banks treasurer can reprice the assets within an average of two months 2007: three months.
Cash held by the operating companies is not normally expected to be placed on deposit for longer than three months.
The Groups capital includes investments in fixed income and money market portfolios, and funds managed by the Groups fixed income fund managers.
These investments are managed to a maximum average duration of two years 2007: 1.5 years.
The fund managers may reduce the average duration with the use of futures contracts at their discretion.
At 31 December 2008, if interest rates had been 100 basis points higher 200 basis points lower 2007: 200 basis points higher lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have increased decreased by 4.1 million 8.2 million 2007: increased decreased by 8.2 million respectively, mainly as a result of higher lower interest income on the Groups floating rate debt securities and cash: other components of equity would have been unaffected.
The following are underlying assumptions made in the model used to calculate the effect on post-tax profits in the Private Banks: The fair values of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates: Within the Private Banks, the fixed rate financial assets will be repriced to the higher lower market interest rates: and The average term for repricing is two months 2007: three months.
The following are underlying assumptions made in the model used to calculate the effect on post-tax profits in the rest of the Group: The fair values of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates: and Funds would be reinvested in similar variable interest bearing debt securities on maturity.
Foreign exchange risk Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
In the Private Banks, some loans and advances to clients as well as a proportion of the treasury activities are undertaken in foreign currencies: however, this is hedged on a daily basis to reduce currency exposures to low levels.
Limits regarding the amount of foreign currency risk that the Group is exposed to are set by the relevant risk committee and monitored daily.
Given the low level of currency mismatch within the Group, the FSAs Basic Methodology for calculating the exposure is used.
The Groups policy in relation to revenue and expenditure currency exposure is not to hedge, as the Groups revenue is earned and expenditure incurred in many currencies and the resulting exposure is considered part of the business.
The Group hedges some of its investments in foreign operations using forward foreign exchange contracts with third parties to mitigate exposure to currency movements where it is considered that the sterling values of such amounts are at risk.
The use of such instruments is subject to the approval of the Group Capital Committee.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 27.
Financial instrument risk management continued At 31 December 2008, if the US dollar had strengthened by 5 per cent.
against sterling with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have increased decreased by 0.9 million 2.2 million respectively, principally as a result of the increase decrease in assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies: other components of equity would have increased decreased by 2.7 million 6.8 million respectively, principally as a result of the unhedged portion of net investment in foreign operations.
At 31 December 2008, if the Euro had strengthened by 5 per cent.
against sterling with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have increased decreased by 0.9 million 2.2 million respectively, principally as a result of the increase decrease in assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies: other components of equity would have increased decreased by 10.5 million 26.2 million respectively, principally as a result of the unhedged portion of net investment in foreign operations.
At 31 December 2007, if the US dollar had strengthened weakened by 10 per cent.
against sterling with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have increased decreased by 13.0 million 10.6 million respectively, principally as a result of the increase decrease in assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies: other components of equity would have increased decreased by 9.8 million 8.0 million respectively, principally as a result of the unhedged portion of net investment in foreign operations.
At 31 December 2007, if the Euro had strengthened weakened by 10 per cent.
against sterling with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have increased decreased by 5.1 million 4.1 million respectively, principally as a result of the increase decrease in assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies: other components of equity would have increased decreased by 15.2 million 12.4 million respectively, principally as a result of the unhedged portion of net investment in foreign operations.
Pricing risk Pricing risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
The Group holds equity investments in its seed capital portfolio.
Equity market exposure is hedged where it is considered that the amount at risk is material and an effective hedge is available.
The Group also holds debt security investments in its fixed income and money market portfolios.
Pricing risk of these investments is partially mitigated by their short-term nature.
At 31 December 2008, if the FTSE All Share Index had been 20 per cent.
higher lower with all other variables held constant, the effect on post-tax profit would be an increase decrease of 53.2 million 70.3 million 2007: 105.9 million 69.4 million respectively, principally as a result of an increase decrease in management fees receivable and impairment losses on the Groups unhedged available-for-sale financial assets: other components of equity would increase decrease by 11.6 million nil 2007: 26.9 million respectively, principally as a result of fair value gains on the Groups unhedged available-for-sale financial assets.
The following are underlying assumptions made in the model used to calculate the effect on post-tax profits and other components of equity: Changes in the FTSE All Share Index correlate to changes in the Groups equity funds: Performance fees, being principally based on returns relative to specified indices, would be unaffected by changes in the inde x: The Groups investments in debt securities and hedge funds are assumed to have no correlation to the FTSE All Share Index: The Groups Private Equity investments are assumed to have perfect correlation to the FTSE All Share Index for all but propert y investments, which are assumed to have no correlation: The market risk on the Groups seed capital investments are assumed to be perfectly hedged for 2008 only : and Decreases in the Groups unhedged available-for-sale financial assets are assumed to be impairments for 2008 only.
Capital management Investment capital is the Groups capital that is not required for the regulatory and working capital requirements of the business.
It is invested in the following areas: Cash: Debt securities: Seed capital: Private equity: Third party hedge funds: and Other investments property and legacy investments.
The investment capital is held to assist existing products and businesses and to accelerate their development: to support the organic development of new businesses which fit with the existing asset management franchise: and to respond to other investment and growth opportunities, such as acquisitions that will accelerate the development of the business, as they arise.
The investments in seed capital and property funds are primarily to support the business.
The remainder of the investment capital is invested in cash, fixed income and liquid debt securities and a portfolio of third party hedge funds.
The objectives are to maintain liquidity and to optimise the return on investments.
Other structural considerations underlying the way in which investment capital is deployed are to avoid or hedge exposure to markets so as not to increase the Groups operational gearing and to minimise currency exposure by hedging into sterling.
Additional disclosures on financial instruments 2008 At fair value through profit or loss Designated as at fair value At through Nonamortised Held to Held for profit or AvailableHeld for financial cost maturity trading loss for-sale sale instruments Total Note mn mn mn mn mn mn mn mn Assets Goodwill 112.8 112.8 Intangible assets 50.7 50.7 Property, plant and equipment 27.7 27.7 Associates and joint ventures 32.7 32.7 Financial assets 15, 17 845.7 533.9 8.8 428.1 1,816.5 Loans and advances to customers 802.4 802.4 Deferred tax 43.1 43.1 Retirement benefit scheme assets 22.4 22.4 Current tax 15.5 15.5 Trade and other receivables 344.8 20.9 365.7 Cash and cash equivalents 1,067.6 1,067.6 Non-current assets held for sale 2.0 2.0 Assets backing unit-linked liabilities 121.6 3,113.1 3,234.7 2,336.4 845.7 533.9 3,121.9 428.1 2.0 325.8 7,593.8 Liabilities Financial liabilities 126.6 8.8 135.4 Deposits by customers and banks 2,057.0 2,057.0 Deferred tax 4.1 4.1 Provisions 18.9 18.9 Current tax 22.8 22.8 Trade and other payables 448.0 40.7 488.7 Unit-linked liabilities 3,234.7 3,234.7 2,523.9 126.6 3,243.5 67.6 5,961.6 2007 At fair value through profit or loss Designated as at fair value At through Nonamortised Held to Held for profit or AvailableHeld for financial cost maturity trading loss for-sale sale instruments Total mn mn mn mn mn mn mn mn Assets Goodwill 95.2 95.2 Intangible assets 25.1 25.1 Property, plant and equipment 25.6 25.6 Associates and joint ventures 32.2 32.2 Financial assets 944.4 1,071.4 15.6 158.0 2,189.4 Loans and advances to customers 623.0 623.0 Deferred tax 42.8 42.8 Retirement benefit scheme assets 42.5 42.5 Current tax 7.6 7.6 Trade and other receivables 301.2 11.3 312.5 Cash and cash equivalents 715.5 715.5 Non-current assets held for sale 37.5 37.5 Assets backing insurance unit-linked liabilities 1.4 2,726.4 2,727.8 1,641.1 944.4 1,071.4 2,742.0 158.0 37.5 282.3 6,876.7 Liabilities Financial liabilities 63.8 16.0 79.8 Deposits by customers and banks 1,732.7 1,732.7 Deferred tax 2.7 2.7 Provisions 12.9 12.9 Current tax 57.0 57.0 Trade and other payables 499.9 67.7 567.6 Unit-linked liabilities 2,727.8 2,727.8 2,245.5 63.8 2,743.8 127.4 5,180.5 For all financial instruments, carrying value approximates fair value.
Details of differences between the carrying and fair values of non-current assets held for sale are set out in note 20.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 29.
Share capital Non-voting Number Ordinary shares ordinary shares Total shares Share premium of shares mn mn mn mn At 1 January 2008 294,498,843 226.0 68.5 294.5 58.1 Shares issued 752,747 0.8 0.8 3.1 Shares cancelled 8,538,230 8.6 8.6 At 31 December 2008 286,713,360 226.0 60.7 286.7 61.2 Non-voting Number Ordinary shares ordinary shares Total shares Share premium of shares mn mn mn mn At 1 January 2007 293,875,873 226.0 67.9 293.9 36.4 Shares issued 3,866,560 3.9 3.9 24.8 Shares cancelled 3,243,590 3.3 3.3 3.1 At 31 December 2007 294,498,843 226.0 68.5 294.5 58.1 2008 2007 2008 2007 Number Number mn mn Authorised: Ordinary shares of 1 each 226,022,400 226,022,400 226.0 226.0 Non-voting ordinary shares of 1 each 113,977,598 113,977,598 114.0 114.0 339,999,998 339,999,998 340.0 340.0 Allotted, called-up and fully paid: Ordinary shares of 1 each 226,022,400 226,022,400 226.0 226.0 Non-voting ordinary shares of 1 each 60,690,960 68,476,443 60.7 68.5 286,713,360 294,498,843 286.7 294.5 The difference between the share classes The non-voting ordinary shares carry the same rights as ordinary shares except that they do not confer the right to attend and vote at any general meeting of the Company, and that on a capitalisation issue they carry the right to receive non-voting ordinary shares rather than ordinary shares.
Own shares Employee trusts have been established for the purposes of satisfying certain share-based awards.
At 31 December 2008, the trusts held 4,406,488 2007: 5,636,875 non-voting ordinary shares costing 42.1 million 2007: 50.6 million, with a market value of 30.1 million 2007: 65.8 million.
In addition, the trusts held 9,450,527 2007: 4,948,846 voting ordinary shares costing 97.7 million 2007: 52.4 million, with a market value of 81.1 million 2007: 64.4 million.
Dividends on shares held by the trusts are waived.
Movements during the year were as follows: 2008 2007 mn mn At 1 January 75.5 90.9 Own shares purchased 45.5 21.5 Own shares disposed through sale to third parties 15.9 1 Own shares disposed through vesting 20.2 21.0 At 31 December 100.8 75.5 1 On vesting, own shares balances are transferred to the profit and loss reserve insofar as they relate to share-based payments and to the shares to be issued reserve insofar as they relate to certain contractual obligations to issue shares for example, as part of the consideration for an acquisition.
Any profit or loss made on disposal is recorded directly in the profit and loss reserve.
Other reserves Shares to Capital Own shares Net exchange Hedging 1 be issued reserves held differences reserve Total mn mn mn mn mn mn At 1 January 2008 10.1 161.8 75.5 28.3 4.1 64.0 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 322.7 169.3 153.4 Net income and expense recognised directly in equity 322.7 169.3 153.4 Shares cancelled 8.5 8.5 Consideration paid in the form of shares 5.1 4.9 0.2 Own shares purchased 45.5 45.5 2 Transfers to from retained profits reserve 33.1 15.3 48.4 At 31 December 2008 5.0 203.4 100.8 294.4 173.4 228.6 Shares to Capital Own shares Net exchange Hedging 1 be issued reserves held differences reserve Total mn mn mn mn mn mn At 1 January 2007 15.1 156.3 90.9 53.7 5.3 32.1 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 25.4 9.4 16.0 Net income and expense recognised directly in equity 25.4 9.4 16.0 Shares cancelled 2.7 2.7 Consideration paid in the form of shares 5.0 4.9 0.1 Own shares purchased 21.5 21.5 Own shares disposed through sale to third parties 15.9 15.9 Transfers to from retained profits reserve 2.8 16.1 18.9 At 31 December 2007 10.1 161.8 75.5 28.3 4.1 64.0 1 Shares to be issued represent outstanding deferred consideration in respect of the 2006 acquisition of NewFinance Holdings Limited.
2 Includes a non-distributable credit of 26.1 million from retained profits in respect of a bonus issue made by a subsidiary of Schroders plc.
Retained profits reserve Associates Fair value Profit and Retained reserve reserve loss reserve profits mn mn mn mn At 1 January 2008 20.8 99.4 1,158.9 1,279.1 Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 29.6 29.6 Net losses on available-for-sale financial assets 3.1 195.7 198.8 Amounts recycled through the income statement 107.4 107.4 Transfer of net losses to non-equity minority interests 4.5 4.5 Tax on items taken directly to equity 1.3 2.3 1.0 Net income and expense recognised directly in equity 3.1 82.5 31.9 117.5 Profit for the year 6.2 70.5 76.7 Recognised income and expense for the year 3.1 82.5 38.6 40.8 Shares cancelled 71.8 71.8 Share-based payments 24.4 24.4 Dividends 86.7 86.7 Transfers within retained profits reserve 9.3 9.3 Transfers to from other reserves 48.4 48.4 Share issue costs 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2008 14.6 16.9 1,023.9 1,055.4 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 32.
Retained profits reserve continued Associates Fair value Profit and Retained reserve reserve loss reserve profits mn mn mn mn At 1 January 2007 14.9 124.0 942.1 1,081.0 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes 5.5 5.5 Net gains on available-for-sale financial assets 2.7 15.6 18.3 Amounts recycled through the income statement 40.2 40.2 Tax on items taken directly to equity 2.6 2.6 Net income and expense recognised directly in equity 2.7 24.6 8.1 13.8 Profit for the year 22.3 277.4 299.7 Total recognised income and expense for the year 25.0 24.6 285.5 285.9 Shares cancelled 30.4 30.4 Own shares disposed 3.5 3.5 Share-based payments 32.9 32.9 Dividends 74.9 74.9 Transfers within retained profits reserve 19.1 19.1 Transfers to from other reserves 18.9 18.9 At 31 December 2007 20.8 99.4 1,158.9 1,279.1 33.
Minority interests 2008 2007 Non-equity Equity Non-equity Equity minority minority minority minority interests interests Total interests interests Total mn mn mn mn mn mn At 1 January 23.8 0.5 24.3 1.2 0.2 1.4 Exchange translation adjustments 9.1 0.4 9.5 Additions 27.8 27.8 38.4 0.1 38.5 Disposals 43.9 43.9 19.4 19.4 Transfer of net losses from fair value reserve 4.5 4.5 Amounts recycled through the income statement 3.1 3.1 Loss profit retained for the year 5.5 0.1 5.4 3.6 0.4 4.0 Distributions made 0.7 0.7 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 9.9 0.3 10.2 23.8 0.5 24.3 Non-equity minority interests arise when funds previously classified as non-current assets held for sale are consolidated see notes 20 and 24 and where the Group holds less than 100 per cent.
of the investment in those funds.
Reconciliation of net cash from operating activities 2008 2007 mn mn Operating profit 78.1 347.6 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation of property, plant and equipment and software 11.9 8.7 Impairment and amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations 9.8 1.7 Impairment of financial assets 81.3 Other amounts recycled through the income statement in respect of financial assets 26.1 40.2 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 134.1 72.6 Increase in trade and other payables and provisions 112.9 231.5 Increase in unit-linked liabilities 506.9 1,195.8 Net charge for release of provisions 6.2 5.4 1 Net losses gains on financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss 48.2 46.2 Share-based payments expensed 24.4 32.9 2 Other non-cash movements 134.2 0.6 Payments made to defined benefit scheme 12.4 18.9 UK corporation tax paid 21.7 9.3 Overseas tax paid 90.8 58.2 Interest paid 0.2 0.5 Net purchase of assets backing unit-linked liabilities 386.8 1,207.3 Net cash from operating activities 125.6 505.4 1 Excludes gains and losses on all derivative assets and liabilities.
Commitments and contingent liabilities 2008 2007 a Commitments mn mn Documentary credits 10.1 13.8 Undrawn loan facilities 48.2 107.5 Investment call commitments 38.8 23.8 97.1 145.1 2008 2007 b Contingent liabilities mn mn Assets pledged as collateral security 53.1 26.1 Guarantees and irrevocable letters of credit 53.5 66.6 Other contingent liabilities 0.4 107.0 92.7 Transactions giving rise to contingent liabilities are only entered into by the Group once it has received sufficient high-quality collateral from the client.
The collateral may be in the form of cash, fiduciary deposits or securities held by the Groups Private Banking entities but may also include charges over property or third party guarantees.
c Future capital expenditure At 31 December 2008, there was no 2007: 0.4 million capital expenditure contracted but not provided in the accounts.
d Litigation Certain Group undertakings are the subject of current or pending legal actions or regulatory reviews: the Directors believe that none of these, either individually or in aggregate, is likely to have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 35.
Commitments and contingent liabilities continued e i Operating leases as lessee At 31 December, the Groups commitments under non-cancellable operating leases were: 2008 2007 Office Office Offices equipment Offices equipment mn mn mn mn Commitment expiring in: Less than 1 year 31.9 1.3 25.4 0.5 1 5 years 97.6 1.0 90.8 0.7 More than 5 years 45.9 70.9 175.4 2.3 187.1 1.2 Leases in respect of office properties are negotiated for an average term of 3.8 years 2007: 3.4 years and rentals are fixed for an average of 3.0 years 2007: 2.8 years.
Leases in respect of office equipment are negotiated for an average term of 2.3 years 2007: 1.6 years and rentals are fixed for an average of 2.1 years 2007: 1.5 years.
ii Operating leases as lessor The Group sublets certain of its properties around the world.
At 31 December, the future minimum lease payments under noncancellable operating leases were: 2008 2007 Offices Offices mn mn Commitment expiring in: Less than 1 year 5.4 2.5 1 5 years 21.3 11.3 More than 5 years 9.0 12.0 35.7 25.8 Subleases in respect of office properties are negotiated for an average term of 7.5 years 2007: 5.0 years and rentals are fixed for an average of 5.7 years 2007: 3.3 years.
f Other The Group has a contractual obligation to reinstate certain leasehold premises before expiry of the lease in 2018.
The Directors believe that this obligation cannot be provided for because it cannot be measured reliably.
Obligations of certain Group companies under the Euroclear settlement system are secured by charges on assets held on their behalf from time to time within that system and by cash deposits placed.
In the ordinary course of business, subsidiary undertakings have custody of customers securities, act as trustees and issue indemnities on behalf of customers who have lost certificates of title.
The Company and subsidiary undertakings have also provided letters of comfort to regulatory authorities and others that subsidiary undertakings will be capitalised adequately and will meet their contractual obligations.
Awards to employees of rights to share-based payments The Group has the following share-based payment arrangements: 1 Share Option Plan 2000 : Under this Plan, the Group grants market value share options over non-voting ordinary shares to executive Directors and other key employees.
Options usually become exercisable if the option holder remains with the Group for at least three years and, for executive Directors, the performance target has been met.
The performance target, in line with market practice, is that the Companys earnings per share growth defined as the earnings per ordinary share before any exceptional items, as derived from the Companys Annual Report and Accounts must be at least four per cent.
per annum above the increase in the Retail Price Index over the initial three-year period.
Awards to employees of rights to share-based payments continued 1 Share Option Plan 1999 : Options over non-voting ordinary shares were granted to executive Directors and other key employees.
Under the Share Option Plan 1999 the performance target of all option holders, including executive Directors, was that the Companys earnings per share growth must be at least two per cent.
per annum above the increase in the Retail Price Index over a minimum five-year period.
This performance condition was in line with market practice at the time of the award.
The Company no longer grants awards under this plan.
1 Equity Compensation Plan 2000 : Under this Plan, executive Directors and other key employees receive deferred bonus awards over either ordinary or non-voting ordinary shares, normally structured as rights to acquire shares at nil cost.
These awards are subject to forfeiture and will vest on the third anniversary provided the participant continues to be employed within the Group.
Further details are given in the remuneration report.
All of the above share-based payment arrangements involve a maximum term of ten years for each option granted and are settled through the transfer of shares of the Company to employees.
Share Incentive Plan: Under this scheme approved by HM Revenue & Customs, eligible employees can purchase shares in the Company each month up to 1,500 per taxation year from their gross salary.
In April 2006, the Group began to match employee share purchases up to 50 per month.
These matching shares are effectively free shares awarded to the employee subject to their remaining in employment for one year.
1 Equity Incentive Plan 2008 : Under this scheme, eligible employees receive awards of ordinary shares, normally structured as rights to acquire shares at nil cost.
These awards are subject to forfeiture and will vest on the fifth anniversary of the grant, provided the employee continues to be employed within the Company.
Full details are included within the remuneration report.
1 Certain employees have been awarded cash-settled equivalents to these share-based awards.
The fair value of these awards is determined using the same methods and models used to value the equivalent equity-settled awards.
The fair value of the liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date and at settlement date.
a Share option plans Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their relative weighted average exercise prices are as follows: 2008 2007 Weighted Weighted average exercise average exercise price per share Options price per share Options At 1 January 718p 7,155,955 726p 11,056,393 Exercised 511p 752,747 740p 3,866,560 Lapsed 856p 33,878 At 31 December 742p 6,403,208 718p 7,155,955 Outstanding options immediately exercisable 740p 6,366,341 716p 6,968,956 The weighted average share price, at exercise date, of options exercised during the year was 8.89 2007: 11.73.
At 31 December 2008 options to subscribe for non-voting ordinary shares, with the weighted average contractual life remaining of 3.0 years 2007: 4.0 years, were outstanding as follows: i Under the terms of the Share Option Plan 1999: 2008 2007 Exercise periods Exercise price per share Number Number 7 May 2004 to 6 May 2009 822p 84,719 84,719 13 March 2005 to 12 March 2010 800p 784,779 784,779 869,498 869,498 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 36.
b Equity Compensation Plan Under the Equity Compensation Plan, rights over 5,309,627 2007: 3,478,055 ordinary and 35,031 2007: 24,468 non-voting ordinary shares were granted during the year ended 31 December 2008.
The weighted average fair value of 7.87 2007: 10.30 per ordinary and 6.88 2007: 9.49 per non-voting ordinary share was calculated using the market value of the shares at the grant date, discounted for dividends forgone over the average holding period of the award.
c Cash-settled share-based awards The Company issues to certain employees cash-settled share-based awards that require the Group to pay the intrinsic value of the award to the employee on the date of exercise.
At 31 December 2008, the total carrying amount of liabilities arising from cash-settled share-based awards at the balance sheet date was 1.2 million 2007: 1.4 million.
The total intrinsic value at 31 December 2008 of liabilities for which the employees right to cash or other assets had vested by that date was 0.6 million 2007: 1.0 million.
d Share Incentive Plan The employee monthly share purchase plan is open to all UK-based employees and provides free shares from the Group to match the employee purchase up to a maximum of 50 per month.
Pursuant to these plans the Group issued 43,014 ordinary shares in 2008 2007: 26,487, at a weighted average share price of 9.38 2007: 11.46.
A charge of 0.4 million 2007: 0.3 million will be expensed over a vesting period of one year.
e Equity Incentive Plan On 31 October 2008 the Group introduced the Equity Incentive Plan.
Under this scheme, the Group issued rights to 1,213,639 ordinary shares.
A charge of 0.4 million was recognised during the financial year.
The weighted average fair value was 7.91 per ordinary share, calculated as the market value on the date of grant.
The Company recognised total expenses of 23.9 million 2007: 34.3 million arising from share-based payment transactions during the year of which 24.4 million 2007: 32.9 million were equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
Events after the balance sheet date No events requiring disclosure under IAS 10 occurred after the balance sheet date.
Related party transactions a Transactions between related parties Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties, excluding compensation, are disclosed below: 2008 Amounts owed Amounts owed Revenues Expenses by related parties to related parties mn mn mn mn Associates 2.0 0.7 Key management personnel 0.1 0.1 5.4 2007 Amounts owed Amounts owed Revenues Expenses by related parties to related parties mn mn mn mn Associates 2.2 0.5 0.5 Key management personnel 0.1 4.3 Transactions with related parties were made at market rates.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received.
No expense for bad or doubtful debts has been recognised in the year in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
b Key management personnel compensation The remuneration of key management personnel during the year was as follows: 2008 2007 mn mn Short-term employee benefits 10.8 17.5 Post-employment benefits 0.6 0.3 Other long-term benefits 1.8 4.2 Termination benefits 1.7 Share-based payments 2.8 6.4 17.7 28.4 The remuneration of key management personnel is determined having regard to the performance of individuals and market rates.
The remuneration policy is described in more detail in the remuneration report.
Acquisitions During the period, the Group completed three acquisitions: on 29 February 2008, the Group completed the acquisition of the net assets of the Singapore Private Client Advisory unit for consideration of 5.2 million.
On 30 May 2008, the Group acquired 100 per cent.
of the issued share capital of Swiss Re AM for consideration of 28.3 million, and, on 30 September 2008, the Group acquired 100 per cent.
of the issued share capital of E. Sun SITE for consideration of 9.1 million.
These transactions have been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.
As allowable under IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the initial accounting for the Swiss Re AM and E. Sun SITE acquisitions has been determined only provisionally due to the timing of the acquisition relative to the reporting date.
The carrying values of the net assets acquired in the transactions, which were not subject to fair value adjustments on acquisition, and the goodwill and intangible assets arising, are as follows: Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 39.
Acquisitions continued Singapore Private Client Swiss Re AM Advisory E. Sun SITE acquisition acquisition acquisition Total mn mn mn mn Net assets acquired: Non-current financial assets 1.9 1.9 Cash at bank 2.3 5.3 7.6 Trade and other receivables 1.4 1.1 2.5 Trade and other payables 1.3 0.2 1.5 Taxation 0.5 0.5 3.8 6.2 10.0 Goodwill 7.5 3.0 1.6 12.1 Intangible assets 17.0 2.2 1.3 20.5 28.3 5.2 9.1 42.6 Satisfied by: 1 Cash 26.9 5.2 9.1 41.2 Current liability 1.4 1.4 Total consideration 28.3 5.2 9.1 42.6 1 Includes acquisition costs of 0.7 million.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions is attributable to the anticipated profitability of the businesses acquired.
In respect of the Swiss Re AM acquisition, the intangible assets represent values attributed to existing contractual arrangements between Swiss Re AM and the funds it manages.
The result contributed by the acquisitions in the period between the date of acquisition and the balance sheet date was a loss of 1.8 million before tax.
If the acquisitions had been completed on 1 January 2008, an aggregation of the Groups revenue for the year and those of the acquirees would have been 944.9 million, and the profit before tax for the period on the same basis would have been 124.6 million.
These figures include a deduction for the additional amortisation charge of 0.9 million that would have arisen had the acquisitions taken place at that date.
Financial statements Schroders plc balance sheet Financial accounts 31 December 2008 102 103 2008 2007 Notes mn mn Non-current assets Investments in subsidiaries 45 2,585.0 2,585.0 Deferred tax 49 1.1 1.5 Retirement benefit scheme assets 42 22.4 42.5 2,608.5 2,629.0 Current assets Financial assets 46 0.2 0.1 Trade and other receivables 47 31.0 45.7 Cash and cash equivalents 48 0.1 8.7 31.3 54.5 Total assets 2,639.8 2,683.5 Equity Called-up share capital 54 286.7 294.5 Share premium account 54 61.2 58.1 Other reserves 56 1,332.8 1,350.7 Retained profits 57 846.0 855.0 Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company 2,526.7 2,558.3 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax 49 1.7 Trade and other payables 51 7.1 11.9 7.1 13.6 Current liabilities Provisions 50 3.2 2.5 Trade and other payables 51 102.8 109.1 106.0 111.6 Total equity and liabilities 2,639.8 2,683.5 Approved by the Board of Directors on 9 March 2009.
Kevin Parry Directors } Bruno Schroder Schroders plc statement of recognised income and expense for the year ended 31 December 2008 2008 2007 Notes mn mn Actuarial losses gains on defined benefit pension schemes 57 30.6 6.6 Tax on items taken directly to equity 43 b, 57 5.1 1.0 Net income and expense recognised directly in equity 25.5 5.6 Profit for the year 57 167.0 264.6 Total recognised income and expense for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company 141.5 270.2 Financial statements Schroders plc cash flow statement Financial accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 104 105 2008 2007 Note mn mn Operating profit 177.0 273.6 Adjustments for: Decrease in trade and other receivables 9.1 62.7 Decrease in trade and other payables and provisions 12.9 234.4 Decrease in financial liabilities 0.4 Increase in financial assets 0.1 0.1 Payments made to defined benefit scheme 10.5 19.1 Share-based payments expensed 22.4 2.0 Amounts received in respect of Group tax relief 9.2 10.2 Interest paid 9.1 14.5 Interest received 1.8 1.7 Net cash from operating activities 186.9 81.7 Financing activities Redemption of non-voting ordinary shares 71.8 34.1 Proceeds from issue of non-voting ordinary shares 3.9 28.7 Acquisition of own shares 40.5 16.7 Disposal of own shares 19.2 Dividends paid 86.7 74.9 Share buy-back expenses 0.4 Net cash from financing activities 195.5 77.8 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 8.6 3.9 Opening cash and cash equivalents 8.7 4.8 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 8.6 3.9 Closing cash and cash equivalents 48 0.1 8.7 Schroders plc Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 40.
Significant accounting policies The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
As permitted by that Act, the separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS which comprise standards and interpretations approved by either the International Accounting Standards Board or the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee or their predecessors, which had been approved by the European Commission as at 31 December 2008.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section 230 of the Act not to present its own income statement.
The principal accounting policies adopted are the same as those set out in note 1 Summary of accounting policies except as noted below.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment.
Revenues and expenses other disclosures 2008 2007 mn mn Included in revenues: Net gains on financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss 0.9 0.1 1 Net losses on foreign exchange 0.9 0.1 Included in administrative expenses: Salaries and other remuneration 7.5 14.7 Social security costs 0.7 2.5 Other pension income see note 42 1.9 0.2 Employee benefits expense 8.7 17.0 1 Excludes foreign exchange on forward exchange contracts.
Such gains and losses are included in net gains on financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss.
The average number of employees employed by the Company during the year was: Average 2008 2007 Number Number Full-time employees 44 The auditors remuneration for audit services to the Company was 0.6 million 2007: 0.6 million.
Fees relating to further assurance services were nil in the year 2007: nil.
2008 2007 mn mn Included in interest: Bank interest receivable 1.4 0.1 Interest receivable on loans to subsidiaries not at fair value through profit or loss 0.3 1.1 Other interest receivable on financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss 0.1 0.5 Interest receivable on similar income 1.8 1.7 Interest payable on loans from subsidiaries not at fair value through profit or loss 11.6 14.5 Other interest payable on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss 0.1 Interest payable and similar charges 11.6 14.6 42.
Retirement benefit obligations The expense borne for pension costs represents the charge for the year in respect of the Schroders Retirement Benefits Scheme.
Full details of the Scheme can be found in note 5.
Tax expense income 2008 2007 a Analysis of tax charge credit in year mn mn Current tax: Current tax credit group relief 5.3 8.6 Adjustments in respect of prior years 2.4 0.2 Total current tax credit for the year 2.9 8.8 Deferred tax charge Orgination and reversal of temporary differences 2.9 5.0 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.3 0.6 Effect of changes in UK corporation tax rate 0.1 0.3 Total tax charge credit for the year 0.2 4.1 2008 2007 b Analysis of charge credit to equity mn mn Current income tax on Equity Compensation Plan and share option awards 0.6 0.4 Deferred income tax on actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 8.5 2.0 Deferred income tax on Equity Compensation Plan and share option awards - current year 3.8 0.8 Deferred income tax on Equity Compensation Plan and share option awards - prior year 0.2 Deferred income tax effect of changes in UK corporation tax rate 0.2 Tax credit charge reported in equity 5.1 1.0 c Factors affecting the tax charge credit for the year The current tax charge credit for the year is lower 2007: lower than the blended rate of corporation tax of 28.5 per cent.
The differences are explained below: 2008 2007 mn mn Profit before tax 167.2 260.8 Profit before tax multiplied by corporation tax at the UK blended rate of 28.5 per cent.
47.7 78.2 Effects of: Non-taxable income net of disallowable expenses 50.3 83.1 Prior year adjustments 2.7 0.7 Movements in unrecognised deferred tax 0.4 0.5 UK tax on profits of overseas entities after double tax relief 0.2 1.7 Deferred tax adjustments in respect of changes in UK tax rate 0.1 0.3 Total income tax charge credit 0.2 4.1 On 1 April 2008 the standard rate of UK corporation tax was reduced from 30 per cent.
Dividends Details of the Companys dividends paid and proposed for approval at the Annual General Meeting can be found in note 8.
Investments in subsidiaries mn At 1 January and December 2008 2,585.0 46.
Financial assets 2008 2007 mn mn Forward foreign exchange contracts maturing in less than 1 year see note 52 0.2 0.1 Schroders plc Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 47.
Trade and other receivables 2008 2007 mn mn Trade and other receivables held at amortised cost: Amounts owed from subsidiaries 31.0 45.7 The carrying amount of the trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents 2008 2007 mn mn Cash at bank and in hand 0.1 8.7 The book value of cash and cash equivalents approximates to their fair value.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 28 per cent.
reflecting the rate expected to be applicable at the time the net deferred tax asset is realised.
The movement on the net deferred tax asset account is as shown below: 2008 2007 mn mn At 1 January 0.2 5.9 Income statement expense 3.1 4.4 Credit taken to equity 4.5 1.2 Effect of changes in UK tax rates-income statement expense 0.1 0.3 Effect of changes in UK tax rates-taken to equity 0.2 At 31 December 1.1 0.2 Temporary differences Tax losses including carried bonuses and forward pension costs Total a Deferred tax assets mn mn mn At 1 January 2008 1.5 1.5 Income statement expense 1.5 1.5 Transfer from deferred tax liabilities 1.11.1 At 31 December 2008 1.11.1 At 1 January 2007 1.2 4.7 5.9 Income statement credit expense 0.3 5.1 4.8 Charged to equity 1.3 1.3 Transfer to deferred tax liabilities 1.71.7 At 31 December 2007 1.5 1.5 Financial statements Financial accounts 108 109 49.
Deferred tax continued Temporary differences including bonuses and pension costs Total b Deferred tax liabilities mn mn At 1 January 2008 1.7 1.7 Income statement expense 1.7 1.7 Credited to equity 4.5 4.5 Transfer to deferred tax assets 1.1 1.1 At 31 December 2008 At 1 January 2007 Transfer from deferred tax assets 1.7 1.7 At 31 December 2007 1.7 1.7 All of the deferred tax assets were available for offset against deferred tax liabilities.
The net deferred tax asset at 31 December 2008 was 1.1 million 2007: liability 0.2 million.
Provisions Total mn At 1 January 2008 2.5 Provisions utilised 0.1 Exchange translation adjustments 0.8 At 31 December 2008 3.2 The amount predominantly represents the balance of a provision in respect of matters covered by indemnification obligations under the terms of the sale of the investment banking business in 2000.
Trade and other payables 2008 2007 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total mn mn mn mn mn mn Financial liabilities at amortised cost: Social security 0.6 3.5 4.1 1.0 5.1 6.1 Accruals 9.0 3.6 12.6 8.9 6.8 15.7 Amounts owed to subsidiaries 93.2 93.2 98.9 98.9 Other liabilities 0.3 0.3 102.8 7.1 109.9 109.1 11.9 121.0 The carrying amount of the financial liabilities at amortised cost approximates to their fair value.
The Groups financial liabilities at amortised cost are expected to mature in the following time periods: mn mn Maturing repricing whichever is earlier in: Less than one year 102.8 109.1 1 2 years 3.3 5.9 2 3 years 3.8 6.0 7.1 11.9 109.9 121.0 Schroders plc Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 52.
Derivative contracts 2008 2007 Notional Notional amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities mn mn mn mn mn mn Forward foreign exchange contracts maturing in less than 1 year 3.1 0.2 3.4 0.1 3.1 0.2 3.4 0.1 The notional amounts of certain types of financial instruments provide a basis for comparison with instruments recognised on the balance sheet but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash flows involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Groups exposure to credit or price risks.
The derivative instruments become favourable assets or unfavourable liabilities as a result of fluctuations in market interest rates, indices or foreign exchange rates relative to their terms.
The Company holds derivatives for risk management purposes only.
The Company does not hold derivatives for trading or other speculative purposes.
The Company holds currency forwards which represent commitments to purchase foreign and domestic currency, including undelivered spot transactions.
The maximim exposure to credit risk is represented by the fair value of the contracts.
The contracts are used to hedge provisions that are held both at a Group level and within the Company.
These provisions are denominated in US dollars.
The carrying amounts of the Companys derivative contracts are denominated in US dollars.
Financial instrument risk management The risk management process of the Company are aligned with those of the Group as a whole.
Details of the Groups risk management processes are outlined in Risk management and internal control within the Governance section of this report and accounts and in note 27.
The Companys specific risk exposures are explained below.
Credit risk The Company has exposure to credit risk from its normal activities where the risk is that a counterparty will be unable to pay in full amounts when due.
The Companys counterparties are predominantly its subsidiaries and therefore there is no external credit risk exposure.
The Companys cash and cash equivalents is invested in accounts with well-rated UK and overseas banks Liquidity risk Liquidity risk includes the risk that the Company cannot meet its obligations as they fall due or can only do so at a cost.
The Groups liquidity policy is to maintain sufficient liquidity to cover any cash flow funding and meet all obligations as they fall due.
The Group holds investment capital which includes investments in fixed income and money market portfolios.
Liquidity in these portfolios is monitored by the Group on a regular basis.
The Company holds sufficient liquid funds to cover its normal course of business.
Outside the normal course of business the Company can borrow investment capital through intergroup loans to maintain sufficient liquidity.
The Companys interest rate risk is limited.
Assets and liabilities attracting interest rates are cash balances and intercompany loans, both of which are at floating rate, therefore outright interest rate risk arises mainly from the decision to allow mismatch between cash flows.
As at 31 December 2008, if the Bank of England interest rates had been 200 basis points higher lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 1.2 million lower higher 2007: 1.3 million lower higher, mainly as a result of higher lower interest on intercompany loans and cash balances: other components of equity would be unaffected.
The following assumption was made in the model used to calculate the effect on post-tax profits: the fair value of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates.
The Companys exposure to foreign exchange risk has been hedged using currency forwards as detailed in note 52.
Financial instrument risk management continued Pricing risk Pricing risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
The Company has no material exposures in this area.
Capital management The Companys policy is to have adequate capital for all activities undertaken in the normal course of business.
In particular, it should have sufficient capital to maintain sufficient liquid funds to meet peak working capital requirements.
Any surplus capital is loaned back to the Groups investment capital management entities.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital can be found in note 29 to the accounts.
At 31 December 2008, the trusts held 3,658,422 2007: 4,367,479 non-voting ordinary shares costing 34.1 million 2007: 38.1 million, with a market value of 25.0 million 2007: 51.0 million.
In addition, the trusts held 8,573,898 2007: 4,443,217 ordinary shares costing 85.1 million 2007: 46.4million, with a market value of 73.6 million 2007: 57.9 million.
Other reserves Own shares held Capital reserves Total mn mn mn At 1 January 2008 58.4 1,409.1 1,350.7 Shares cancelled 8.68.6 Own shares purchased 40.5 40.5 Transfers 14.0 14.0 At 31 December 2008 84.9 1,417.7 1,332.8 Own shares held Capital reserves Total mn mn mn At 1 January 2007 71.9 1,406.4 1,334.5 Shares cancelled 2.72.7 Own shares purchased 16.7 16.7 Own shares disposed through sale to third parties 15.9 15.9 Transfers 14.3 14.3 At 31 December 2007 58.4 1,409.1 1,350.7 Schroders plc Notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 57.
Retained profits reserve 2008 2007 mn mn At 1 January 855.0 670.4 Profit after tax 167.0 264.6 Dividends 86.7 74.9 Retained profit for the year after dividends 80.3 189.7 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension scheme 30.6 6.6 Tax on items taken directly to equity 5.1 1.0 Net income and expense recognised directly in equity 25.5 5.6 Share-based payments 22.4 30.8 Cancellation of non-voting ordinary shares 71.8 30.4 Net gains on disposals of own shares 3.2 Share buy-back expenses 0.4 Transfers 14.0 14.3 At 31 December 846.0 855.0 58.
Awards to employees of rights to share-based payments Details of the Companys awards to employees of rights to share-based payments can be found in note 36.
Related party transactions a Transactions between related parties Details of transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, and transactions between the Company and other related parties, excluding compensation, are disclosed below.
2008 Interest Interest Amounts owed Amounts owed receivable payable Expenses by related parties to related parties Revenues mn mn mn mn mn Subsidiaries of the Company 177.8 0.3 11.6 31.0 93.2 Key management personnel 0.1 0.1 4.4 2007 Interest Interest Amounts owed Amounts owed receivable payable Expenses by related parties to related parties Revenues mn mn mn mn mn Subsidiaries of the Company 277.0 1.1 14.5 45.7 98.9 Key management personnel 0.1 4.1 Transactions with related parties were made at market rates.
No expense for bad or doubtful debts has been recognised in the year in respect of the amounst owed by related parties.
b Key management personnel compensation The remuneration of key management personnel during the year was as follows: 2008 2007 mn mn Short-term employee benefits 5.7 10.2 Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.1 Other long-term benefits 1.0 2.9 Termination benefits 1.0 Share-based payments 1.3 4.2 9.1 17.4 The remuneration policy is described in more detail in the remuneration report.
Subsidiary undertakings The following information is given in respect of those subsidiary undertakings which, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the consolidated profits or assets of the Company.
They are all wholly-owned subsidiary undertakings of the Company All undertakings operate in the countries where they are registered or incorporated except where shown.
All companies are engaged in the business of asset management, private banking, private equity or group activities.
England Germany New Finance Capital LLP Schroder Investment Management GmbH Schroder Administration Limited Schroder Property Investment Management GmbH Schroder & Co. Limited Schroder Financial Services Limited Hong Kong SAR Schroder International Holdings Limited Schroder Investment Management Hong Kong Limited Schroder Investment Company Limited Preference shares Schroder Investment Management Limited Schroder Investment Management North America Limited Indonesia Schroder Investments Limited PT Schroder Investment Management Indonesia 99.0 per cent.
Schroder Property Investment Management Limited Schroder Unit Trusts Limited Italy Schroder Pension Management Limited Schroders Italy SIM S. p. A. Leadenhall Securities Corporation Limited Schroder Middle East Limited Japan Schroder Investment Management Japan Limited Argentina Schroder Investment Management S. A. Korea Schroders Korea Limited Australia Schroders Australia Holdings Pty Limited Luxembourg Preference shares Schroder Investment Management Luxembourg S. A. Schroder Property Investment Luxembourg s. a. r. l. Brazil Schroder Investment Management Brazil DTVM S. A. Mexico Schroder Investment Management, S. A. Bermuda fide c. v Sociedad Operadora fide Sociedadas fide Inversion Schroder Finance Bermuda Limited Schroder International Holdings Bermuda Limited Netherlands Schroder Venture Managers Inc. Schroder International Finance B. V. Schroders Bermuda Limited Schroder Investment Management Benelux N. V. Schroder Property Services B. V. Channel Islands Burnaby Insurance Guernsey Limited Singapore Schroder Investments Guernsey Limited Schroder & Co. Asia Limited Preference shares Schroder Investment Management Singapore Ltd Schroder Investment Management Guernsey Limited Schroder Investments Singapore Pte Ltd Schroder Property Managers Jersey Limited Schroders Capital Investments Singapore Pte Ltd Schroder Venture Managers Guernsey Limited Preference shares Switzerland Gresham Founder CIP Limited Schroder & Co Bank AG Gresham Manager CIP Limited Schroder Investment Funds Switzerland AG Schroders C. I.
Limited Taiwan Denmark Schroder Investment Consulting Co. Limited Schroder Investment Management Fondsmaeglerselskab A S United States of America Schroder Investment Management North America Inc. Schroder US Holdings Inc. A full list of subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates will be annexed to the next annual return of Schroders plc to be filed with the Registrar of Companies.
Held directly by the Company.
2 Dividends per share are those amounts approved by the shareholders to be paid within the year on a per share basis to the shareholders on the register at the specified dates.
3 Net assets per share are calculated by using the actual number of shares in issue at the balance sheet date see note 29.
