Governance The Directors are responsible for preparing the To the best of their knowledge, each of the Directors responsibility Annual Report, the remuneration report and the Directors listed on pages 28 and 29 confirm that: statement financial statements in accordance with applicable The Group financial statements, which have law and regulations.
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view Company law requires the Directors to prepare of the assets, liabilities, financial position and financial statements for each financial year.
Under profit of the Group: that law the Directors have prepared the Group The Directors report, including the information and Company financial statements in accordance incorporated from elsewhere in the Annual with International Financial Reporting Standards Report, includes a fair review of the development IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The and performance of the business and the financial statements are required by law to give position of the Group, together with a a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the description of the principal risks and Company and the Group and of the profit or loss uncertainties that it faces: of the Company and the Group for that period.
So far as they are aware, there is no relevant In preparing those financial statements, audit information of which the Companys the Directors are required to: auditors are unaware: and Select suitable accounting policies and They have each taken all the steps that ought to then apply them consistently: have been taken by them as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant auditMake judgements and estimates that information and to establish that the Companys are reasonable and prudent: auditors are aware of that information.
State that the financial statements comply with IFRS as adopted by the European The statement from the Chairman and the Union: and Chief Executive on pages 2 and 3 and the Prepare the financial statements on the going business review on pages 6 to 27 contain certain concern basis, unless it is inappropriate forward-looking statements with respect to the to presume that the Group will continue in financial condition, results of operations and business, in which case there should be businesses of the Group.
Such statements and supporting assumptions or qualifications forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because as necessary.
they relate to events and depend upon circumstances in the future.
There are a number The Directors are responsible for keeping proper of factors that could cause actual results or accounting records that disclose with reasonable developments to differ materially from those accuracy at any time the financial position of expressed or implied by such forward-looking the Company and the Group, and enable them statements and forecasts.
Forward-looking to ensure that the financial statements and the statements and forecasts are based on the remuneration report comply with the Companies Directors current view and information known Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial to them at the date of this report.
The Directors do statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
not make any undertaking to update or revise any They are also responsible for safeguarding the forward-looking statements, whether as a result assets of the Company and the Group and for of new information, future events or otherwise.
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and Nothing in this report should be construed as detection of fraud and other irregularities.
