Accounting Policies A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out in e Finance Costs paragraphs a to i below.
All have been applied consistently Interest payable has been charged one-half to revenue reserve, throughout the current and the preceding year: one-half to capital reserve-realised in line with the directors expectations of long-term future returns from the companys a Basis of Accounting investments 2007: same.
Tax relief applicable to those charges The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost is allocated between revenue and capital using the marginal basis.
convention, modified to include the revaluation of investments, and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting The discount and expenses of issue on the secured bonds due standards.
The companys accounting policies comply with the 2030 have been included in the financing costs of the issue which AIC Statement of Recommended Practice SORP Financial are being written off over the life of the bonds.
Statements of Investment Trust Companies.
f Taxation b Valuation of Investments Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided Listed investments are valued at fair value through profit or at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates loss.
Fair value is the closing bid or last traded price according and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the to the recognised convention of the markets on which they are balance sheet date.
Where trading in the securities of an investee company Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result is suspended, the investment is valued at the boards estimate of its net realisable value.
Where appropriate the directors have in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date.
Timing differences arise adopted the guidelines issued by the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Association for the valuation of unlisted from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are investments.
Heritable property is included at a professional valuation.
Depreciation is not charged on heritable property included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not as it is not material.
that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are Realised surpluses or deficits on the disposal of investments and not discounted.
The company has no deferred tax asset or liability.
permanent impairments in the value of investments are taken to capital reserve realised, and unrealised surpluses and deficits g Foreign Currency on the revaluation of investments are taken to capital reserve Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded unrealised as explained in note h below.
in the local currency at actual exchange rates at the date of the transaction or, where appropriate, at the rate of exchange Year end exchange rates are used to translate the value of in a related forward contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities investments which are denominated in foreign currencies.
denominated in foreign currencies at the year end are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at the year end.
Any gain or loss c Income arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of Dividends receivable on quoted shares are brought into account the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in capital on the ex-dividend date.
Dividends receivable on shares where reserve or in the revenue account depending on whether the gain no ex-dividend date is quoted are brought into account when or loss is of a capital or revenue nature.
the companys right to receive payment is established.
h Capital Reserves Fixed returns on non-equity shares are recognised on a time Capital reserve realised apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on the shares.
Other returns on non-equity shares are recognised The following are accounted for in this reserve: when the right to the return is established.
The fixed return gains and losses on the realisation of investments on a debt security is recognised on a time apportionment basis realised exchange differences of a capital nature so as to reflect the effective yield on the debt security.
realised gains and losses on transactions undertaken to hedge an exposure of a capital nature Where the company elects to receive dividends in the form the funding of ordinary stock repurchases of additional shares rather than in cash, the amount of the cash expenses, interest and tax charged to capital.
dividend is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash is recognised Capital reserve unrealised in capital reserves.
The following are accounted for in this reserve: increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held d Expenses at the year end All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
unrealised exchange differences of a capital nature unrealised gains and losses on transactions undertaken to Eligible investment expenses have been charged one-half to hedge an exposure of a capital nature revenue reserve and one-half to capital reserve-realised in line with increases and decreases in the valuation of the pension fund the directors expectations of the nature of long-term future returns surplus or deficit.
from the companys investments 2007: same.
Expenses which are incidental to the acquisition of an investment i Pensions are included within the cost of the investment.
Information on the companys pension scheme is contained in note 4 to the Financial Statements on page 32.
Expenses which are incidental to the disposal of an investment are deducted from the proceeds of the investment.
30 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2008
