Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and twenty first annual general meeting of The Scottish Investment Trust PLC will be held at The Roxburghe Hotel, Charlotte Square, Edinburgh, on 30 January 2009 at 10:30am, for the purpose of transacting the following: As ordinary business: 1.
To receive and consider the directors report and statement of accounts for the year to 31 October 2008.
To approve the directors remuneration report for the year to 31 October 2008.
To declare a final dividend of 5.05p per ordinary stock unit.
To re-elect Mr Douglas McDougall as a director.
To re-elect Mr Francis Finlay as a director.
To re-elect Mr James MacLeod as a director.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
To authorise the company, in accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act and in substitution for any pre-existing such authority, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of ordinary stock units of 25p each ordinary stock units, provided that: a. the maximum number of ordinary stock units hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the issued ordinary stock on the date this resolution is passed: b. the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary stock unit shall be 25p: c. the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary stock unit shall be the higher of: i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out: d. unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 30 April 2010, save that the company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase ordinary stock units under such authority which will or might be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary stock pursuant to any such contract.
All resolutions are ordinary resolutions except number 8 which is a special resolution.
Steven Hay Secretary 8 December 2008 48 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2008 Notice of Meeting continued In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the Notes CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message, Arrangements have been made to enable all investors to attend regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a and vote at the annual general meeting.
proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so Registered stockholders whose names appear on the as to be received by Computershare Investor Services PLC companys register of members at the close of business on Crest ID Number 3RA50 no later than 10.30am on 28 January 28 January 2009 are entitled to attend and vote at the meeting 2009.
A message received through the CREST network after in respect of ordinary stock registered in their names at that this time will not be accepted.
The time of receipt will be taken time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after to be the time from which the companys registrar is able to that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST.
person to attend and vote at the meeting.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting or voting service provider s should note that Euroclear does is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak not make available special procedures in CREST for any and vote on his or her behalf.
If a stockholder wishes to particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations appoint more than one proxy, each proxy must be appointed will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy to exercise rights attaching to a different 1 nominal value, Instructions.
or multiple of 1 in nominal value, of ordinary stock units held by the stockholder.
A proxy need not be a member of the The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction company.
Proxy forms must be lodged with the companys in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the registrar not less than 48 hours excluding non-working days Uncertificated Securities Regulations.
before the meeting or, in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after it was demanded, not less than 24 hours before Any person holding 3% of the total voting rights in the the time appointed for the taking of the poll.
Completion of company who appoints a person other than the chairman as the proxy form will not prevent a member from attending the his proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party meeting and voting in person.
comply with their respective disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
As at 5 December 2008, In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the the total number of voting rights exercisable at the meeting meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so was 32,405,000. that i if a corporate stockholder has appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions Members may require the company to publish, on its website, to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the a statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the other corporate representatives for that stockholder at the companys accounts, including the auditors report and the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give conduct of the audit, which they intend to raise at the meeting.
voting directions to the chairman and the chairman will vote The company will be required to do so once it has received or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance such requests from either i members representing at least with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate 5% of the total voting rights of the company or ii at least 100 representative for the same corporate stockholder attends members who have a relevant right to vote and hold stock in the meeting but the corporate stockholder has not appointed the company on which there has been paid up an average sum the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, per member of at least 100. a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start and ISA investors vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give are welcome to attend and may vote on a poll by completing voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
the Form of Direction enclosed with this report.
This must be Corporate stockholders are referred to the guidance issued returned to the companys registrar no later than 10.30am by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on 23 January 2009.
Other investors whose holdings are in on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk nominee names and who wish to attend and vote are advised for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes to contact their nominee before 23 January 2009. a sample form of representation letter if the chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 5 February 2009 to stockholders registered at the close of business on CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies 9 January 2009. through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the annual general meeting and any adjournment s This report is sent to the address at present registered for thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST communications.
Any change of address should be notified to Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored the companys registrar or the savings scheme administrator.
members and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor The register of directors interests maintained by the company or voting service provider s who will be able to take the will be available for inspection at the meeting together with appropriate action on their behalf.
copies of directors appointment letters.
Report & Accounts 2008 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 49
