Investor Information The companys wholly-owned subsidiary, SIT Savings Ltd, The SIT SIPP provides a number of low-cost, flexible investment products The SIT SIPP now accepts what is known as protected which enable investors to access SIT stock.
How to Invest Previously, the only option for most individuals who had built You can buy SIT stock using the low-cost investment products up a protected rights fund through contracting out of SERPs or outlined below.
SIT stock can also be bought directly on the State Second Pension S2P into a personal pension was to the stockmarket through a stockbroker.
Your bank, lawyer, hold it in a traditional style personal pension or stakeholder plan.
accountant or other professional adviser may be able to help with this.
The governments new rules, which came into effect on 1 October 2008, give investors holding protected rights funds in a SIPP much greater investment flexibility.
STOCKPLAN SITs investment trust savings scheme is one of the lowest SIT Schemes Administrator Address charging available.
Extremely flexible, it allows you to invest Halifax Share Dealing Limited HSDL, SITs STOCKPLAN regularly minimum investment 25 per month and or with and ISA Administrator, has changed its address.
There is no maximum investment limit and you can stop and start investing at HSDLs new address is: any time.
SIT Schemes STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start Halifax Share Dealing Limited SITs Investing for Children plan is based on the STOCKPLAN Lovell Park Road scheme.
It benefits from the same low charges and flexibility Leeds and can be opened in one of two ways: either as a designated LS1 1NS plan or, more formally, as a bare trust.
STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start enables family and friends to invest on behalf of a child Although post sent to HSDLs old address will be forwarded, to help build savings for the future.
it would be appreciated if SIT scheme investors could use the new address in any future correspondence with HSDL.
The SIT ISA This is one of the most competitively priced stocks and shares ISAs on offer.
There is no initial plan charge, other than stamp SIT Schemes Administrator Telephone Number duty and dealing spread, nor are there closure or selling There is one telephone number for the administration of the charges.
The annual management fee of 0.6% of the value SIT STOCKPLAN and ISA schemes.
This is the number for our of the investment is capped at 30 VAT regardless of how scheme administrator, HSDL, and it should be used by holders much your ISA investment grows or how many years ISA of our STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start and ISA allowances you invest with SIT.
schemes for: account queries The SIT SIPP requests for valuations This allows investment into SIT through a low-cost, flexible, information about your scheme self-invested personal pension.
The wide choice of investments instructing a sale available, including SIT, enables you to tailor the investment making an investment using a debit card combination in the SIPP to suit your particular needs and giving change of address details objectives whether you are just starting to contribute to your help with accessing STOCKPLAN and ISA information on line pension or are approaching retirement.
You can open a SIT SIPP even if you are already an active member of an employers The number is: 0845 850 0181. pension scheme or are contributing to other pension plans.
Dividends Update on tax-efficient investing The following dividends have been paid or proposed during ISAs 2008: The overall ISA annual investment limit for the current tax year Record Payment is 7,200 up to 3,600 in a cash ISA and the balance, or full Dividends Amount XD date date date amount, in a stocks and shares ISA.
Final and 6.80p 2 January 4 January 7 February Transfers from cash ISAs into stocks and shares ISAs Special 2007 2008 2008 2008 are permitted and do not count against the current years Interim 2008 4.45p 11 June 13 June 18 July subscription.
2008 2008 2008 Investment in ISAs continues to be free from any capital gains Final 2008 5.05p 7 January 9 January 5 February tax.
Higher rate tax payers do not have to pay any additional tax 2009 2009 2009 on the dividend, nor does it need to be included in a tax return.
Report & Accounts 2008 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 45 Investor Information continued The STOCKPLAN and ISA schemes provide automatic on Computershares website, investors can view details of all reinvestment of dividends.
However, they also allow for their holdings for which Computershare is Registrar, as well as dividends to be taken as income, if required.
STOCKPLAN access additional facilities and documentation.
and ISA holders should contact the scheme administrator, HSDL, on 0845 850 0181 if they would like to change their Please see www-uk.
com investor for dividend arrangements.
Conversely, name on register stockholders investors whose Electronic Communications names are on our stock register and who hold their stock If you are a name on register stockholder i. e. not in the in certificated form where dividends are automatically paid STOCKPLAN, ISA or SIPP schemes, nor in a brokers nominee as income, can have their dividends reinvested by joining you may choose to receive our interim and annual reports and our Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
Details are available other stockholder communications electronically instead of in from Computershare Investor Services, our Registrar, paper form.
All you need to do to register is to visit the link in on 0870 703 0195, or from the investor relations section the investor relations section on our website, www.
co. uk and provide your email details.
You will then be advised by email when an electronic communication is available to be accessed.
Monitoring Your Investment SITs stock price, together with performance information and Stockholders Meetings product details, can be found on SITs website, www.
co. uk Investors whose names appear on the main stock register i. e. not in one of our schemes, nor in a brokers nominee The price of ordinary stock units is published daily in most are entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and other general quality newspapers and is also available on Ceefax and meetings.
Notices of meetings and proxy cards are sent to Teletext, listed as Scot.
In addition, a number of financial their registered addresses.
websites, such as the FT website, www.
ft. com and Trustnet Financial Express, www.
com carry stock price STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start and ISA investors information.
are entitled to attend the AGM and other general meetings and vote on a poll by completing and returning the form of direction SIT publishes a weekly NAV and a monthly statement on enclosed with this report.
An interim report is issued in June of each year, with the annual report being distributed to all investors in The AGM will be held at the Roxburghe Hotel, Charlotte Square, late December.
STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start and ISA investors Electronic Voting receive twice yearly statements of their holdings and SITs Name on register stockholders in their own right ie not in one investor newsletter is issued twice yearly.
of our schemes, nor in a brokers nominee are able to submit Accessing Your Account Online proxy votes electronically for our AGM.
Please follow the instructions on your proxy card.
ISA, STOCKPLAN and STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start designated scheme investors Personal Taxation The above scheme investors may view their accounts online Income Tax by registering with halifax-online.
This can be accessed through the links in the various product sections on our website, Currently, all UK dividends are paid to stockholders net of a www.
co. uk online Please tax credit of 10%.
Changes to the tax regime mean that from note you will need your Share Dealing Personal Reference April 1999 non-tax payers are no longer able to reclaim the Number PRN to access this service.
If you do not have this, tax credit.
please contact SITs scheme administrator, HSDL, on 0845 850 0181.
Non-ISA stockholders liable to higher rates of tax will be assessed for any additional tax through their annual tax return.
SIPP investors SIPP investors can set up monthly payments, buy and sell stock and access their account online, by visiting www.
co. uk online Name on register stockholders Investors who hold ordinary stock in their own name on SITs stock register can check their holdings on our Registrars website, www-uk.
com or through the link in the investor relations section on SITs website, www.
co. uk Please note that to access this facility, investors will need to quote the reference number shown on their stock certificate.
Alternatively, by registering for the Investors Centre facility 46 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2008 Investor Information continued Capital Gains Tax CGT Investment trusts currently pay no CGT on gains made within the portfolio.
When investors sell all or part of their holdings, they may be liable to CGT.
Currently, the first 9,600 pa of such gains from all sources is exempt.
For investors who purchased stock prior to 31 March 1982 the cost for CGT purposes may be based on the price on that date of 41.472p.
Investors who are in any doubt as to their liability for CGT should seek professional advice.
ISA investments remain exempt from CGT.
Please remember that we are unable to offer individual investment or taxation advice.
If you require such advice, you should consult your professional adviser.
SIT Savings Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA, 25 The North Colonnade, Canary Wharf, London E14 5HS.
Risk Warning The capital value of stock units and the income from them can go down as well as up as a result of market and currency fluctuations and cannot be guaranteed.
That means you may not get back the amount you originally invested.
Past performance may not be repeated and is no indicator of future performance.
The Scottish Investment Trust PLC has a long-term policy of borrowing money to invest in equities in the expectation that this will improve returns for stockholders.
However, if markets fall, these borrowings will magnify any losses.
Investment in SIT is intended as a long-term investment.
Taxation levels, bases and reliefs are subject to change and may depend on individual circumstances.
Further Information For further information and brochures on any SIT products please visit our website, www.
co. uk or contact: SIT Investor Relations SIT Savings Limited Freepost EH882 Edinburgh EH2 0BR Brochure Request Line: 0800 42 44 22 Fax: 0131 226 3663 Email: heather@sit.
co. uk Report & Accounts 2008 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 47
