Management Review continued Under the companys buyback policy, which is intended Glossary to keep the discount at or below 9% in normal market Total assets means total assets less current liabilities.
conditions, 4.6m stock units were repurchased for cancellation over the financial year adding 0.3% to NAV is net asset value per ordinary unit after deducting NAV performance and utilising 2.22 percentage points borrowings at par or market value, as stated.
of the 14.99% authority renewed at the January 2008 AGM at an average discount of 9.6% and a cost of Ex-income NAV is the NAV excluding revenue for 22.9m inclusive of dealing expenses.
discount over the year was 8.5% and the estimated daily average since the introduction of the scheme in Borrowings at par is the book value of the companys February 2006 was 8.9%.
borrowings, the nominal value less unamortised issue expenses.
Analysis of Stock Register Borrowings at market value is the companys estimate at 31 October 2008 of the fair value of its borrowings.
Ordinary Category of holder Number capital % Discount is the difference between the market price Individuals 25,444 63.8 of our stock units and their NAV expressed as a percentage of the NAV.
Investment companies 54 5.2 Insurance companies 13 19.0 Gearing is the term used to describe the process Pension funds 31 5.5 of borrowing money for investment purposes in Other 115 6.5 the expectation that the returns on the investments purchased will exceed the cost of those borrowings.
Total 25,657 100.0 Includes 18.5% held in SIT Savings products.
Potential gearing is the gearing ratio if all borrowings were invested in equities stockholders funds borrowings at par expressed as a percentage of stockholders funds.
Effective gearing is the true geared position of the company stockholders funds borrowings at par net current assets, expressed as a percentage of stockholders funds.
GDP references are to gross domestic product adjusted for inflation.
Industrial Classification Benchmark ICB is used for industrial and geographical analysis.
ICB is jointly owned by FTSE and Dow Jones and has been licensed for use.
All rights, therein are reserved.
FTSE and Dow Jones do not accept liability to any person for any loss or damage arising out of any error or omission in the ICB.
Report & Accounts 2008 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 15
