ST ANDREW SQUARE A7 NORTH BRIDGE C A L L L T I H O G E C ON LT A A R N C L P R O A D NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the offices of Public Transport By Rail: Baillie Gifford & Co, Calton Square, 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh EH1 3AN, Edinburgh Waverley approximately a 5 minute walk away.
Omni If you have any queries as to how to vote or how to attend the meeting, please Cinema call us on 0800 027 0133.
JOHN Calton Square LEWIS Baillie Gifford may record your call.
ST. JAMES CENTRE BUS STATION Parking available under Calton Square THISTLE & Thistle Hotel HOTEL BALMORAL HOTEL Access to Waverley Train Station on foot EDINBURGH WAVERLEY STATION Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the ninety- 8.
To authorise the Directors to determine c the maximum price exclusive of ninth Annual General Meeting of Scottish the remuneration of the Independent expenses which may be paid Mortgage Investment Trust PLC will be Auditors.
for a Share shall be an amount held within the Registered Office of the equal to the higher of a 105% of To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the Company, Calton Square, 1 Greenside the average of the middle market following resolutions as Special Resolutions: Row, Edinburgh EH1 3AN, on Thursday, quotations as derived from the 26 June 2008 at 11.00 am for the 9.
That, in substitution for any existing Daily Official List of the London following purposes: authority under section 166 of the Stock Exchange for the Shares for Companies Act 1985 the Act, but the 5 business days immediately Ordinary Business without prejudice to the exercise of preceding the date of purchase and any such authority prior to the date b the higher of the price of the last To consider and, if thought fit, to pass hereof, the Company be authorised, independent trade and the highest the following resolutions as Ordinary in accordance with section 166 of the current independent bid as stipulated Resolutions: Act, to make market purchases within by Article 5 1 of Commission 1.
To receive and adopt the Accounts of the meaning of section 163 3 of the Regulation EC 22 December 2003 the Company for the year to 31 March Act of ordinary shares of 25p each in implementing the Market Abuse 2008 with the Reports of the Directors the capital of the Company either for Directive as regards exemptions and of the Independent Auditors thereon.
retention as treasury shares for future for buy-back programmes and sale or cancellation Shares, provided stabilisation of financial instruments 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration that: No 2273 2003 : and Report for the year to 31 March 2008. d unless previously varied, revoked a the maximum aggregate number 3.
or renewed by the Company in of Shares hereby authorised to be 4.
To re-elect Mr GA Ball as a Director.
general meeting, the authority purchased shall be 14.99% of the hereby conferred shall expire at the issued ordinary share capital on 5.
To re-elect Dr MM Gray as a Director.
conclusion of the Annual General the date on which this resolution is 6.
To re-elect Mr WG McQueen as a Meeting of the Company to be held passed: Director.
in 2009, save that the Company b the minimum price which may be may, prior to the expiry of such 7.
To reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as paid for a Share shall be 25p authority, enter into a contract or Independent Auditors.
exclusive of expenses : 50 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 O E O Q U E E N S T R E E T L GEORGE STREET R E A 8 P R I N C E S S T R E E T WAT L LEITH WALK E E N I S I D E T H S T R E E T ST ANDREW SQUARE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING contracts to purchase Shares under respectively attributable to the of the Company may sell treasury shares such authority which will or might interests of all such shareholders in pursuance of such offer or agreement be completed or executed wholly are proportionate as nearly as may as if the power conferred hereby had or partly after the expiration of such be practicable to the respective not expired.
authority and may make a purchase number of Shares held or deemed of Shares pursuant to any such or notionally held by them but Special Business contract or contracts.
subject to such exclusions or other 11.
That the Companys Articles of arrangements as the Directors deem 10.
That, the Directors of the Company Association be amended by making the necessary or expedient in relation be and they are hereby generally alterations marked on the print of the to fractional entitlements or to deal empowered pursuant to section 95 of Articles of Association produced to the with problems under the laws, or the Companies Act 1985 the Act meeting marked A and initialled by the requirements of, any regulatory body to sell relevant shares as defined in Chairman of the meeting for the purpose or stock exchange in any territory: sections 94 2 to 94 3A and section of identification.
and 94 5 of the Act in the Company if, By order of the Board immediately before the sale, such shares b the sale of treasury shares other Baillie Gifford & Co are held by the Company as treasury than pursuant to paragraph a of shares as defined in section 162A 3 this resolution of up to an aggregate Managers and Secretaries 22 May 2008 of the Act treasury shares for cash nominal value of 6,849,747 as defined in section 162D 2 of the being 10% of the Companys issued Act as if subsection 1 of section 89 of Share capital as at 13 May 2008: the Act did not apply to any such sale, and shall expire at the conclusion of provided that this power shall be limited the next Annual General Meeting of the to: Company to be held in 2009, save that the Company may, before such a the sale of treasury shares in expiry, make any offer or enter into an connection with a rights issue in agreement which would or might require favour of the holders of ordinary treasury shares to be sold after the shares of 25p each in the Company expiry of such power, and the Directors Shares where the equity securities SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 51 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notes 4 In order to facilitate voting by corporate LLP, at Condor House, 10 St. Pauls representatives at the meeting, arrangements Churchyard, London EC4M 8AL during 1 A member entitled to attend, speak and vote will be put in place at the meeting so that i normal business hours on any week day at the meeting is entitled to appoint one or if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays more proxies to attend, speak and, on a poll, Chairman of the meeting as its corporate excepted from the date of this Annual Report vote on his her behalf.
A proxy need not be representative with instructions to vote on a until the close of the AGM, and at the place a member of the Company.
A Form of Proxy poll in accordance with the directions of all of the meeting from 15 minutes prior to and for the use of members is enclosed and to be of the other corporate representatives for that during the continuance of the meeting.
valid must be lodged with the Registrar of the shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll Company not later than 48 hours before the 6 The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to those corporate representatives will give time set for the meeting.
The appointment of a persons whose shares are held on their behalf voting directions to the Chairman and the proxy will not prevent a member from by another person and who have been Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as subsequently attending and voting in person.
nominated to receive communications from the corporate representative in accordance with Company in accordance with section 146 of 2 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the those directions: and ii if more than one the Companies Act 2006 nominated Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, corporate representative for the same persons.
Nominated persons may have a the Company specifies that only those corporate shareholder attends the meeting but right under an agreement with the registered shareholders entered on the Register of the corporate shareholder has not appointed shareholder who holds the shares on their Members of the Company as at the close of the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate behalf to be appointed or to have someone business on 24 June 2008 or, in the event representative, a designated corporate else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if that the meeting is adjourned, on the Register representative will be nominated, from those nominated persons do not have such a right, of Members 48 hours before the time of any corporate representatives who attend, who or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend will vote on a poll and the other corporate right under such an agreement to give or vote at the meeting in respect of the representatives will give voting directions to instructions to the person holding the shares as number of ordinary shares registered in their that designated corporate representative.
to the exercise of voting rights.
Changes to the entries on Corporate shareholders are referred to the the Register of Members after the close of 7 As at 13 May 2008, the latest practicable guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered business on 24 June 2008 or, in the event date prior to publication of this document, the Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and that the meeting is adjourned, in the Register Company had 273,989,897 ordinary corporate representatives www.
uk of Members 48 hours before the time of any shares excluding treasury shares in issue with for further details of this procedure.
The adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in a total of 273,989,897 voting rights.
guidance includes a sample form of determining the rights of any person to attend 8 Any person holding 3% of the total voting representation letter if the Chairman is being or vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any rights in the Company who appoints a person appointed as described in i above.
provisions in any enactment, the Articles of other than the Chairman as his proxy will 5 The changes to the Articles of Association Association of the Company or other need to ensure that both he and such third proposed in Resolution 11 are set out in the instrument to the contrary.
party complies with their respective disclosure copy of the Articles of Association marked 3 Shareholders participating in the Baillie obligations under the Disclosure and A which will be available for inspection at Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan, Childrens Transparency Rules.
the Companys registered office, Calton Savings Plan or the Baillie Gifford Investment 9 No Director has a contract of service with Square, 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh EH1 Trust ISA who wish to vote and or attend the the Company.
3AN and at the offices of the Companys meeting must complete and return the legal advisers, Shepherd and Wedderburn enclosed reply-paid Form of Direction.
52 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Scottish Mortgages shares are traded on Online Management Service Further Information the London Stock Exchange.
They can be You can now also open and manage your Client Relations Team Baillie Gifford Savings bought through a stockbroker, by asking a Share Plan and or ISA online, through our Management Limited professional adviser to do so, or through the secure Online Management Service OMS Calton Square Baillie Gifford savings vehicles.
which can be accessed through the Baillie 1 Greenside Row Gifford website at www.
Edinburgh EH1 3AN Baillie Giffords Investment Trust OMS enables you to apply for, open and Tel: 0800 027 0133 Share Plan administer a Baillie Gifford Investment Trust We may record your call You can invest from 250 or from 30 per Share Plan or Investment Trust ISA online.
The plan is designed to be a costE-mail: trustenquiries@bailliegifford.
com As well as being able to view the details effective way of saving on a regular or lump of your plan online, the service also allows Website: www.
you to: Fax: 0131 275 3955 get current valuations: Baillie Giffords Investment Trust ISA For Scottish Mortgage specific queries, make lump sum investments: please use the following contact details: You can invest in a tax efficient way by investing a minimum of 2,000 or from switch between investment trusts except E-mail: scottishmortgage@bailliegifford.
com 100 per month or by transferring an ISA where there is more than one holder : with a value of at least 2,000 from your set up a direct debit to make regular existing manager.
investments: and Baillie Giffords Childrens Savings update certain personal details.
Plan A cost-effective plan tailored especially to meet the requirements to save for children.
You can invest a minimum of 250 or from 30 per month.
Directors Registrar Banker Company Broker Independent Auditors Chairman: Computershare Investor The Bank of New York Cenkos Securities plc KPMG Audit Plc Sir Donald MacKay Services PLC Mellon 6.7.
8 Tokenhouse Saltire Court MA FRSE FRSGS PO Box 82 Yard 20 Castle Terrace The Pavilions London Edinburgh GA Ball FCA Bridgwater Road EC2R 7AS EH1 2EG Dr MM Gray OBE DL Bristol BS99 7NH WG McQueen BSc CA FCIBS Tel: 0870 707 1300 JPHS Scott FCII FSI The Rt Hon Lord Strathclyde PC Company registration No.
7058 Managers, Secretaries and Registered Office Baillie Gifford & Co Calton Square 1 Greenside Row Edinburgh EH1 3AN Tel: 0131 275 2000 Website: www.
