NOTES TO ACCOUNTS 1 Principal Accounting Policies The financial statements for the year to 31 Gains and losses arising from changes in the revenue column of the Income Statement March 2008 have been prepared on the the fair value of investments are considered and realised capital reserve at a constant basis of the accounting policies set out to be realised to the extent that they rate on the carrying amount.
These are unchanged from last year are readily convertible to cash, without written off at a constant rate over the life of and have been applied consistently.
accepting adverse terms, at the balance the borrowings.
Gains and losses on the sheet date.
Fair value gains on unlisted repurchase or early settlement of debt is The Directors consider the Companys investments are not considered to be readily wholly charged to capital.
functional currency to be sterling as the convertible to cash and are therefore Companys shareholders are predominantly f Taxation treated as unrealised.
The treatment of listed based in the UK and the Company is The tax effect of different items of income investments is dependent upon the individual subject to the UKs regulatory environment.
and expenditure is allocated between circumstances of each holding.
revenue and capital on the same basis as a Basis of Accounting c Income the particular item to which it relates, under The accounts are prepared under the i Income from equity investments is the marginal method, using the Companys historical cost convention, modified to brought into account on the date on effective tax rate for the accounting period.
include the revaluation of fixed asset which the investments are quoted exinvestments, and on the assumption that Deferred taxation is provided on all timing dividend or, where no ex-dividend date approval as an investment trust will continue differences, calculated at the current tax rate is quoted, when the Companys right to to be granted.
relevant to the benefit or liability.
Deferred receive payment is established.
tax assets are recognised only to the extent The accounts have been prepared in ii Interest from fixed interest securities is that it will be more likely than not that there accordance with applicable UK accounting recognised on an effective yield basis.
will be taxable profits from which underlying standards and with the Statement of timing differences can be deducted.
Recommended Practice Financial iii Franked income is stated net of tax Statements of Investment Trust Companies credits.
g Foreign Currencies issued in 2003, revised 2005.
Transactions involving foreign currencies are iv Unfranked investment income includes converted at the rate ruling at the time of the In order to reflect better the activities of the taxes deducted at source.
Assets and liabilities in foreign the trust and in accordance with guidance v Interest receivable on deposits is currencies are translated at the closing rates issued by the AIC, supplementary recognised on an accruals basis.
of exchange at the balance sheet date.
information which analyses the profit and Any gain or loss arising from a change in loss account between items of a revenue vi If scrip is taken in lieu of dividends exchange rate subsequent to the date of the and capital nature has been presented in in cash, the net amount of the cash transaction is included as an exchange gain the Income Statement.
dividend declared is credited to the or loss in capital reserve or revenue reserve revenue account.
Any excess in the Financial assets and financial liabilities are as appropriate.
value of the shares received over the recognised in the Companys balance sheet amount of the cash dividend foregone when it becomes a party to the contractual h Capital Reserves is recognised as capital.
i Capital Reserve Realised: d Expenses Gains and losses on realisation of b Investments investments, changes in fair value of All expenses are accounted for on an Purchases and sales of investments are instruments which are readily convertible accruals basis.
Expenses are charged accounted for on a trade date basis.
All to cash, without accepting adverse through the revenue column of the Income investments are designated as fair value terms, and realised exchange differences Statement except as follows: where they through profit or loss upon initial recognition.
of a capital nature are dealt with in this relate directly to the acquisition or disposal The fair value of listed investments is reserve.
Purchases of the Companys of an investment transaction costs, in bid value, or in the case of FTSE 100 own shares for cancellation are also which case they are recognised as capital: constituents, at last traded prices issued by funded from this reserve.
50% of and where they are connected with the the London Stock Exchange.
management fees, including related VAT, maintenance or enhancement of the value of and finance costs are allocated to the Listed investments include Open Ended investments, in which case they are charged realised capital reserve in accordance Investment Companies OEICs authorised 50:50 to the revenue account and realised with the Companys objective of in the UK: these are valued at closing price capital reserve.
combining capital and income growth.
and are classified for valuation purposes e Long Term Borrowings and Finance according to the principal geographical ii Capital Reserve Unrealised: Costs area of the underlying holdings.
Changes in fair value of investments Long term borrowings are carried in the that are not readily convertible to cash, The fair value of unlisted investments uses balance sheet at the cumulative amount without accepting adverse terms, and valuation techniques, determined by the of net proceeds after issue, plus accrued the amounts by which other assets and Directors, based upon latest dealing prices, finance costs attributable to the stepped liabilities valued at fair value differ from stockbroker valuations, net asset values and interest debentures.
The finance costs of their book value are dealt with in this other information, as appropriate.
such borrowings are allocated 50:50 to reserve.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 35
