FURTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Further Shareholder Information issue of 4 for 1 of an ordinary share in the How to Invest Electronic Communications and Company as at 31 March 1982 was 30.6p.
Proxy Voting The Companys shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
They can If you hold stock in your own name you Share Register Enquiries be bought by placing an order with a can choose to receive communications Computershare Investor Services PLC stockbroker, by asking a professional adviser from the Company, and vote, in electronic maintains the share register on behalf of to do so, or through the Baillie Gifford format.
This method reduces costs, is the Company.
In the event of queries savings vehicles see inside back cover for environmentally friendly and, for many, is regarding shares registered in your own details.
If you are interested in investing convenient too.
The paragraphs below name, please contact the Registrars on directly in Scottish Mortgage, you can do explain how you can use these services.
They also offer a free, so online.
There are a number of companies Electronic Communications If you would secure share management website service offering real time online dealing services like to take advantage of this service, which allows you to: find out more by visiting the investment please visit our Registrars website at trust pages at www.
view your share portfolio and see the www-uk.
com investor latest market price of your shares: and register.
You will need your Sources of Further Information on shareholder reference number which is calculate the total market price of each the Company on your share certificate and tax voucher shareholding: to hand.
If you then agree to the terms The price of shares is quoted daily in the and conditions, in future, on the day Financial Times and can also be found on view price histories and trading graphs: that documents are sent to shareholders the Baillie Gifford website at update bank mandates and change by post, you will receive an e-mail www.
com, Trustnet at address details: and providing the website address link to www.
co. uk and on other financial the documents.
After you register, paper websites.
Company factsheets are also use online dealing services.
documents will be available on request.
available on the Baillie Gifford website and To take advantage of this service, please log are updated monthly.
These are available Electronic Proxy Voting You can in at www-uk.
com investor from Baillie Gifford on request.
also return proxies electronically at and enter your Shareholder Reference www-uk.
Number and Company Code this Key Dates If you have registered for electronic information can be found on the last communications you will be issued Ordinary shareholders normally receive two dividend voucher or your share certificate.
a PIN number to use when returning dividends in respect of each financial year.
proxies to the secure Registrar website.
An interim dividend is paid at the end of Dividend Reinvestment Plan You do not need to register for electronic November and a final dividend is paid in Computershare operate a Dividend communications to use electronic proxy early July.
The AGM is normally held in late Reinvestment Plan which can be used to voting, paper proxy forms will contain June or early July.
buy additional shares instead of receiving a PIN number to allow you to return your dividend via cheque or into your bank proxies electronically.
For further information log in to For Capital Gains Tax indexation purposes, If you have any questions about these www-uk.
com investor the market value adjusted for the bonus services please contact Computershare and follow the instructions or telephone on 0870 707 1300.
