Investment trusts offer If you are a user of the CREST system Past performance is no guarantee of future investors the following: including a CREST Personal Member, performance.
Participation in a diversified portfolio of you may appoint one or more proxies or Scottish Mortgage is listed on the stock shares.
give an instruction to a proxy by having an market.
As a result, the value of the shares, appropriate CREST message transmitted.
Constant supervision by experienced and any income from those shares, is not To appoint a proxy or to give an instruction professional managers.
guaranteed and could go down as well as to a proxy whether previously appointed up.
You may not get back the amount you The Company is free from capital gains or otherwise via the CREST system, the invested.
You should view your investment as tax on capital profits realised within its CREST message must be received by the long term.
portfolio although investors are still liable issuers agent ID number 3RA50 not later for capital gains tax on profits when Scottish Mortgage can borrow money to than 48 hours before the time appointed selling their investment.
For this purpose, make further investments sometimes known as gearing.
The risk is that when this the time of receipt will be taken to be These accounts have been approved the time as determined by the timestamp money is repaid by the Trust, the value of the by the Directors of Scottish Mortgage investments may not be enough to cover the generated by the CREST system from which Investment Trust PLC.
Baillie Gifford Savings the issuers agent is able to retrieve the borrowing and interest costs, and the Trust Management Limited is the ISA Manager will make a loss.
If the Trusts investments fall message.
CREST Personal Members or other of the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA CREST sponsored members should contact in value, any borrowings will increase the and the Manager of the Baillie Gifford amount of this loss.
their CREST sponsors for assistance with Investment Trust Share Plan and Childrens appointing proxies via CREST.
Baillie Gifford Savings As Scottish Mortgage invests in overseas information on CREST procedures, limitations Management Limited is wholly owned by securities, changes in the rates of exchange and systems timings, please refer to the Baillie Gifford & Co.
Both are authorised may also cause the value of your investment CREST Manual.
The Company may treat as and regulated by the Financial Services and any income it may pay to go down invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST Authority.
Baillie Gifford only provides or up.
in the circumstances set out in Regulation information about its products and does 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Tax rates and reliefs may change at any time.
The staff of The value of any tax benefits will depend on Regulations 2001.
Computershare Investor Baillie Gifford and the Directors may hold Services PLC is authorised and regulated by investors individual circumstances.
shares in Scottish Mortgage and may buy the Financial Services Authority.
or sell such shares subject to Baillie Giffords personal account dealing rules.
Where this has been received in a country where the provision of such a service would be contrary to local laws or regulations, this should be treated as information only.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 49
