Section 05 Financial statements 121 Carillion plc Financial statements Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Shareholder information Dividends Electronic communications Dividends are normally paid twice a year.
The proposed final In September 2008, Carillion wrote to shareholders detailing dividend in respect of the year to 31 December 2008 will be changes regarding shareholder communications following the payable on 19 June 2009 to those shareholders on the register introduction of the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The Act on 24 April 2009. recognises the growing importance of electronic communications and, following the adoption of updated articles of association A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will also be offered.
at the May 2007 AGM, the Company is now able to provide information to shareholders via the Companys website.
For those shareholders who prefer not to participate in the DRIP, arrangements can be made to pay your dividends automatically Receiving the Companys communications electronically allows into your bank or building society account.
This service has a the Company to communicate with its shareholders in a more number of benefits environmentally friendly and cost effective way.
It also offers advantages in terms of speed and convenience and is a secure there is no chance of the dividend cheque going missing in method of delivering shareholder documentation.
the post the dividend payment is received more quickly as the cash is If you wish to register to receive future notifications issued by paid directly into your account on the payment date without the Company by e-mail rather than by letter, please visit our the need to wait for the cheque to clear registrars website at www.
co. uk and complete your you will help Carillion to improve its efficiency by reducing registration details.
printing and cheque clearing costs.
Shareview If you wish to register for this service please call Equiniti on the www.
co. uk is a service offered by Equiniti that enables number detailed below to request a dividend mandate form.
you to check your holdings in many UK companies and helps you to organise your investments electronically.
You can also notify Results Equiniti of a change of address or a change to dividend mandate Half year to 30 June 2009: announced August 2009 instructions.
You can register for this portfolio service which is Full year to 31 December 2009: announced March 2010 easy to use, secure and free as long as you have access to the internet by logging on to www.
co. uk and following a Shareholder enquiries simple registration process.
Equiniti maintain the share register of the Company.
If you have any queries concerning your shareholding, or if any of your Electronic proxy appointments details change, please contact Equiniti: For the AGM to be held on 6 May 2009, you may, if you wish, register the appointment of a proxy electronically by logging on Equiniti to the website www.
co. uk Aspect House Spencer Road You will need your voting reference numbers the Voting ID, Lancing Task ID and shareholder reference number shown on your form West Sussex of proxy.
Alternatively, if you have registered for a Shareview BN99 6DA portfolio, log on to your portfolio at www.
co. uk and click on Company Meetings.
Telephone 0871 384 2522 Textphone for shareholders Please note that any electronic communication that is found to with hearing difficulties 0871 384 2255 contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
Share dealing service ShareGift Carillion offers its UK shareholders, Shareview Dealing, a ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders, telephone and internet share sale service operated by Equiniti.
administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
It is especially For telephone sales call 0845 603 7037 between 8.00 am and for those who may wish to dispose of a small parcel of shares 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet sales log on to whose value makes it uneconomic to sell on a commission basis.
You will need your shareholder Further information can be obtained at www.
org or reference number as shown on your share certificate.
Multiple accounts on the shareholder register If you have received two or more sets of the documents concerning the Annual General Meeting this means that there is more than one account in your name on the shareholder register, perhaps because either your name or your address appear on each account in a slightly different way.
For security reasons, Equiniti will not amalgamate the accounts without your written consent, so if you would like any multiple accounts combined into one account, please write to Equiniti at the address given on this page.
