214443 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK SEC:JR0534 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK 12 3 09 01:32 Page 136 Notes to the Parent Company Accounts continued 2.
Investment in subsidiaries 2008 2007 Million Million At 1 January 337.2 324.7 Movement in the year 14.9 12.5 At 31 December 352.1 337.2 Movement in the year represents the cost of share options granted by the Company.
Principal Subsidiary Undertakings at 31 December 2008 Investment Holding Companies St. Jamess Place Investments plc St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Group plc Life Assurance St. Jamess Place UK plc St. Jamess Place International plc incorporated in Ireland Unit Trust Management St. Jamess Place Unit Trust Group Limited Financial Services St. Jamess Place Wealth Management plc Management Services St. Jamess Place Management Services Limited Internal Reassurance St. Jamess Place Reassurance Limited incorporated in Ireland St. Jamess Place Reassurance 2009 Limited A full list of subsidiaries is available on request from the registered office and will be submitted with the Companys Annual Return.
The Company owns indirectly 100% of the voting ordinary equity share capital of the above-named subsidiaries.
All of these companies are registered in England and Wales and operate principally in the United Kingdom except where otherwise stated.
Due to ongoing solvency requirements there are restrictions on the amount of distributable reserves within the life assurance and unit trust operating companies of the Group which restricts their ability to transfer cash dividends to the Company.
Financial risk As disclosed in Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group adopts a prudent approach to the management of financial risk, with a view to minimising where practicable its exposure to market, credit and liquidity risks.
As a stand alone entity the Company would be subject to significant liquidity risk since its assets primarily consist of investments in subsidiaries.
However, since the Group is managed on a unified basis and is subject to minimal liquidity risk, the Company may, as required, draw on liquid resources from elsewhere within the Group.
The Company is not directly subject to market and credit risks.
The Companys financial assets comprise outstanding amounts due in respect of the exercise of share options these amounts are not interest bearing.
The Companys financial liabilities comprise balances owed to other Group companies - these balances are not interest bearing and are repayable on demand.
The carrying values of financial assets and liabilities approximate their fair value.
136 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
