214443 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK SEC:JR0534 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK 12 3 09 01:31 Page 90 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued ii Operating lease payments Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of ownership is retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense and are spread over the life of the lease.
h Income taxes i Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
ii Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
iii Policyholder and shareholder tax The total income tax charge is a separate adjustment within the income statement based on the movement in current and deferred income taxes in respect of income, gains and expenses.
The allocation between shareholders and policyholders is based on the returns recognised within these categories.
i Dividends Dividend distributions to the Company's shareholders are recognised as liabilities in the period in which the dividends are declared, and, for the final dividend, when approved by the Company's shareholders at the annual general meeting.
j Intangible assets i Deferred acquisition costs See accounting policy note c iv.
90 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
