214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 52 Corporate Governance Report continued Duties The Committee is responsible for determining all remuneration levels for executive Directors and senior management as well as reviewing the performance of Directors and senior management against bonus and incentive schemes.
The Committee also determines the policy and performance conditions for all incentive schemes and, when setting conditions, looks to encourage enhanced performance wherever possible.
In the event of a termination of a Directors or senior managers service contract, the Committee will review and determine the scope of the termination payment and severance terms.
The Committee is also responsible for selecting, appointing and setting the terms of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise the Committee.
The terms of reference that set out the Committees role and authority can be found on the corporate website and further details on the activity of the Committee during the year is set out in the Remuneration Report on page 64.
Investment Committee The members of the Committee who held office during the year and at the date of this report are: Sir Mark Weinberg Chairman Sarah Bates Andrew Croft David Lamb Michael Sorkin Various members of the Asset Management team and advisers from Stamford Associates were invited to attend meetings during the year.
Duties The Committees main responsibilities include overseeing the Companys investment management approach, monitoring the performance and suitability of the fund managers and whether that fund managers follow the terms of their agreements with the Company.
Where necessary, the Committee will make recommendations in relation to the appointment or removal of fund managers.
The Committee also evaluates market risk and considers and makes recommendations in relation to the appointment and the continued effectiveness of the investment consultant.
Activities The Committee monitored the Companys investment managers during the year and focused on specific manager issues that arose.
Face to face reporting sessions were held with each manager providing the Committee with the opportunity to cross examine them in respect of their investment style and decision-making.
In addition, the Committee considered the Investment Manager Report from Stamford Associates as well as changes to the fund offering, including proposals to launch a new investment grade Corporate Bond fund.
A number of investment mandates for products were also considered.
The Committee also considered feedback provided by St. Jamess Place Partners attending the Double Partner Conference on the choice of fund managers.
Feedback of this nature is useful and invaluable to ensure the Committee remains in touch with the views of Partners across the business.
More details on the work of the Committee can be found in the Report of the Investment Committee 2008, which can be obtained by contacting the Company.
52 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
