214443 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK SEC:JR0534 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK 12 3 09 01:31 Page 94 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued x Foreign currency translation The Groups presentational currency is pounds sterling.
The functional currency of the Groups foreign operations is the currency of the primary economic environment in which these entities operate.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into sterling using the approximate exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gain or losses on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities which are held at historical cost are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the date of transaction: those held at fair value are translated using exchange rates ruling at the date on which the fair value was determined.
y Segment reporting The principal activity of the Group is the transaction of long-term insurance and investment business and the Group segments its operations by lines of business: life, unit trust and other business revenues.
Revenues and expenses allocated to business units reflect those revenues and expenses generated in or incurred by the legal entities comprising the segments.
Separate geographical segmental information is not presented since the Group does not segment its business geographically, its customers being based and its assets managed predominantly in the United Kingdom.
z Current and non-current disclosure Assets which are expected to be recovered or settled no more than twelve months after the balance sheet date are disclosed as current within the notes to the accounts.
Those expected to be recovered or settled more than twelve months after the balance sheet date are disclosed as non-current.
Liabilities which are expected and due to be settled no more than twelve months after the balance sheet date are disclosed as current within the notes to the accounts.
Those liabilities which are expected and due to be settled more than twelve months after the balance sheet date are disclosed as non-current.
Deferred tax balances are all treated as non-current.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies Judgements The primary area in which the Group has applied judgement in applying accounting policies lies in the classification and unbundling of contracts between insurance and investment business.
Contracts with a significant degree of insurance risk are treated as insurance: pension contracts in general have been treated as investment contracts and, where they contain a significant degree of insurance risk, the insurance and investment components have been unbundled.
All other contracts are treated as investment contracts.
The Group has also elected to treat all assets backing linked and non unit linked contracts as fair value through profit or loss although some of the assets in question may ultimately be held to maturity.
94 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008 214443 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK SEC:JR0534 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK 12 3 09 01:31 Page 95 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued Estimates The principal areas in which the Group applies accounting estimates are: determining the value of insurance contract liabilities: deciding the amount of management expenses that are treated as acquisition expenses: amortisation and recoverability of deferred acquisition costs and deferred income: and determining the fair value, amortisation and recoverability of acquired in-force business.
Estimates are also applied in determining the amount of deferred tax asset recognised on unrelieved expenses and the value of other provisions.
Measurement of insurance contract liabilities The assumptions used in the calculation of insurance contract liabilities that have a significant effect on the income statement of the Group are: the lapse assumption, which is set prudently based on an investigation of experience during the year: the level of expenses, which is based on actual expenses in 2008 and expected long term rates: the mortality and morbidity rates, which are based on the results of an investigation of experience during the year: and the assumed rate of investment return, which is based on current gilt rates.
Greater detail on the assumptions applied is shown in Note 19.
Acquisition expenses Certain management expenses vary with the level of sales and have been treated as acquisition costs.
Each line of costs has been reviewed and its variability to sales volumes estimated on the basis of the level of costs that would be incurred if sales ceased.
Amortisation and recoverability of Deferred Acquisition Costs and Deferred Income Deferred acquisition costs and income on investment contracts are amortised on a straight-line basis over the expected lifetime of the underlying contracts.
The expected lifetime of the contracts has been estimated from the experienced termination rates and the age of clients at inception and maturity.
Deferred acquisition costs and income on insurance contracts are amortised over the period during which the costs are expected to be recoverable in accordance with the projected emergence of future margins.
Deferred acquisition costs relating to insurance and investment contracts are tested annually for recoverability by reference to expected future income levels.
95 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
