214443 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK SEC:JR0534 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK 12 3 09 01:31 Page 89 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued vii Insurance and investment contract receivables and payables Insurance and investment contract receivables and payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost less impairment losses.
d Reinsurance Reinsurance premiums are accounted for when due for payment and reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
Reinsurance assets represent amounts recoverable from reinsurers in respect of outstanding claims and in respect of insurance contract liabilities, net of any future reinsurance premiums payable and after allowance for any impairment losses.
e Fee & commission income Fee & commission income primarily consists of management fees on investment contracts see accounting policy note c ii and commission due in respect of products sold on behalf of third parties.
Commission is recognised in full on acceptance and inception of the policy by the product provider.
Where the product provider retains the right to clawback of commission on an indemnity basis, turnover on sale of these products is recognised net of a provision for the estimated clawback.
f Investment return Investment return comprises investment income and investment gains and losses.
Investment income includes dividends, interest and rental income from investment properties under operating leases.
Dividends are accrued on an ex-dividend basis, and rental income is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Interest, which is generated on assets classified as fair value through profit and loss, is accounted for on an accruals basis.
g Expenses i Commission Commission expense is recognised on the sale of insurance, investment and other third party products by the Group.
Depending on the nature of the sale and product, the commission expense may be classified as initial commission paid at the policy outset within the initial period, renewal commission payable on any regular contributions received on renewal premiums, or trail commission commission based upon funds under management payable on the policy anniversary.
Initial commission resulting directly from the sale of insurance and investment products that may be deferred, is described further under accounting policy note c iv.
Commission in respect of some insurance business and investment business may be paid in advance on renewal premiums and accelerated by up to five years.
The unearned element of this accelerated commission is recognised as an asset within other receivables.
Should the contributions reduce or stop within the initial period up to 5 years any unearned commission will be clawed back.
89 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
