214443 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK SEC:JR0534 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK 12 3 09 01:31 Page 86 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards 1.
Accounting policies St. Jamess Place plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
Statement of Compliance The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs.
The Group has applied all IFRSs and interpretations adopted by the EU by 31 December 2008 with the exception of: IFRS 8 operating segments Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: A Revised Presentation.
The effective date for these standards is for accounting periods commencing 1 January 2009 and it is likely that further disclosures will be required when these standards are applied.
The Group financial statements also comply with the revised Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of British Insurers in December 2005 as amended in December 2006 in so far as these requirements do not contradict IFRS requirements.
Basis of Preparation As discussed in the Directors Report, the going concern basis has been adopted in preparing these accounts.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds.
They are prepared on a historical cost basis except for assets classified as investment property, investments and currency forwards, and liabilities classified as investment contracts and insurance contracts, which are held at fair value.
Certain comparative amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgments about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Judgments made by management in the application of IFRSs that have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in Note 2.
86 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
