214443 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK SEC:JR0534 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK 12 3 09 01:31 Page 91 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued ii Acquired value of in-force business The acquired value of in-force business in respect of insurance business represents the present value of profits that are expected to emerge from insurance business acquired on business combinations.
It is calculated at the time of acquisition using best estimate actuarial assumptions for interest, mortality, persistency and expenses, net of any impairment losses, and it is amortised over the anticipated lives of the related contracts in the portfolio.
An intangible asset is also recognised in respect of acquired investment management contracts representing the fair value of contractual rights acquired under those contracts.
The acquired value of in-force business is expressed as a gross figure in the balance sheet with the associated tax included within deferred tax liabilities.
iii Goodwill Goodwill on the acquisition of subsidiaries prior to 1 January 2004 has been charged directly to reserves.
Prospectively the Groups policy is to recognise goodwill on the balance sheet as an intangible asset, measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
k Property & equipment Items of property & equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses see accounting policy note p. The deemed cost of owner occupied property is the fair value determined by an independent valuer as at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the property and equipment as follows: Computers: 3 years Fixtures and fittings: 5 years Office equipment: 5 years Motor vehicles: 4 years Buildings: 50 years l Investment property Investment properties, which are all held within the unit linked funds, are properties which are held to earn rental income and or for capital appreciation.
They are stated at fair value.
An external, independent valuer, having an appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of property being valued, values the portfolio every month.
The fair values are based on market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in fair value is recognised in the income statement.
Rental income from investment property is accounted for as described in accounting policy note f. 91 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
