214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 67 Remuneration Report continued In respect of David Bellamy, Ian Gascoigne and Andrew Croft, the above salaries, when taken together with pension and other fringe benefits, are below the median, based on the comparator data provided by Hewitt.
For David Lamb, his salary has been consciously positioned below the median in light of his relatively recent appointment to the Board, but is expected to increase until his salary is in line with policy as he becomes more experienced in the role.
Annual Bonus For 2009, as in previous years, the Committee has determined that the maximum annual bonus will be 120% of salary, with half of any bonus award payable in cash, the remainder being invested in the Companys shares and deferred for three years.
Taking the cash and shares element of the bonus together, up to 80% of salary will be awarded by reference to the performance of the Group, largely based on growth in European Embedded Value operating profit before tax, although the Committee retains the discretion to amend the bonus, up or down, to take into account other relevant factors such as the Groups performance compared with competitor organisations, the successful recruitment of new Partners, regulatory issues, overall client satisfaction and completion of other business plan objectives.
Up to a further 40% of salary will be awarded by reference to the personal performance of each executive Director, based on a review by the Committee of the executives performance against his or her personal objectives.
The operating profit target set by the Committee is based on a sliding scale, to progressively reward incremental performance.
The range of operating profit before tax for the 2009 bonus scale is based on a significant increase in new business profit compared with 2008, although the growth in operating profit that needs to be achieved reflects the lower profit arising from the in-force book of existing business in 2009 compared with 2008, due to the lower opening embedded value caused by the significant falls in stock markets during 2008.
The mechanisms for identifying, assessing, managing and monitoring risk are an integral part of the management process at St. Jamess Place.
When setting the performance targets for the annual bonus plan the Committee takes into account the principles laid down in the Companys Risk Appetite Statement to ensure that the incentive arrangements support the business objectives and do not encourage a culture of excessive risk taking.
The Committee is also able to take into account the performance of the Group on environmental, social and governance ESG matters when assessing the bonus to be paid to the executive Directors.
The Committee believes that the Groups remuneration structure helps to alleviate ESG risks affecting the Group.
No executive Director has a contractual right to receive an annual bonus award.
The satisfaction of the targets is assessed by reference to the Companys internal management information systems, as verified by the Committee, which the Committee believes is the most appropriate method, given the internal nature of the performance targets.
Mike Wilson does not participate in the annual bonus scheme.
The Committee believes that the annual bonus scheme is an effective incentive for the executive Directors, whilst at the same time offering strong retentive characteristics through the deferred element which normally lapses if an executive leaves the Group, as well as being aligned with shareholder interests due to the value of the deferred element of the award on vesting being dependent on share price performance.
Long Term Incentive Schemes All UK employees of the Group, including the executive Directors, are eligible to enter into a Save As You Earn SAYE contract, under which they are able to save up to 250 per month, and at the end of a three year savings period acquire shares in the Company at a price not less than 80 per cent of the market price of the Companys shares at the date of the invitation to participate.
67 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
