214443 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK SEC:JR0534 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK 12 3 09 01:31 Page 92 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued m Investments The Groups investments are all classified as fair value through profit and loss, with all gains and losses recognised within investment income in the income statement.
The fair values of quoted financial investments, which represent the vast majority of the Groups investments, are based on current bid prices.
If the market for a financial investment is not active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques such as recent arms length transactions, reference to similar listed investments, discounted cash flow models or option pricing models.
The decision by the Group to designate its investments at fair value through the income statement reflects the fact that the investment portfolio is managed, and its performance evaluated, on a fair value basis.
The Group recognises purchases and sales of investments on trade date.
The costs associated with investment transactions are included within administration expenses in the income statement.
n Currency forwards The Group uses currency forwards within some unit linked funds to hedge exposure to foreign currency.
Each contract is recognised initially and subsequently at fair value, based on quoted market prices, with all changes in value recognised within investment income in the income statement.
o Other receivables Other receivables are stated at amortised cost less impairment losses.
p Impairment policy Formal reviews to assess the recoverability of deferred acquisition costs on insurance and investment contracts, the acquired value of in-force business and loans are carried out at each balance sheet date.
The recoverability of such assets is measured and the asset is deemed impaired if the projected future margins are less than the carrying value of the asset.
The carrying amounts of the Groups other assets that are not carried at fair value are also reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If there is any indication of irrecoverability or impairment, the assets recoverable amount is estimated based on the present value of its estimated future cash flows.
Impairment losses are reversed - through the income statement - if there is a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
Such losses are reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation where applicable, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
q Cash & cash equivalents Cash & cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments, and bank overdrafts to the extent that they are an integral part of the Groups cash management.
r Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events such that it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
Provisions are measured as the discounted expected future cash flows taking account of the risks and uncertainties associated with the specific liability where appropriate.
The Group recognises provisions for onerous contracts when the expected benefits to be derived from a contract are less than the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract.
92 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
