214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 65 Remuneration Report continued Although Derek Netherton has served on the board for more than 9 years, the Board believes him to be entirely independent of management.
See page 48 of the Corporate Governance Report for further details.
Simon Gulliford resigned as a non-executive Director of the Company on 7 February 2008 and served as a member of the Committee up to this date when Roger Walsom replaced him on the Committee.
Biographical details of the current members of the Committee are set out on pages 38 to 40.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee and provides advice on corporate governance, legal and regulatory issues as well as the design and operation of the long term incentive schemes.
The Committee may request attendance at meetings of members of the executive team or other third parties as they see fit.
Advisors to the Committee The Committee has access to detailed external information and research on market data and trends from independent remuneration consultants Hewitt New Bridge Street Hewitt.
Hewitt were appointed by the Committee to provide advice and data on executive remuneration, long term incentives and other remuneration issues.
Neither Hewitt, nor its parent company, Hewitt Associates Limited have provided any other services to the Company during the year.
The Chairman and Chief Executive are normally invited to attend each Committee meeting to provide information on corporate or individual performance to the Committee.
They may also make recommendations regarding the remuneration packages of individual Directors.
Such recommendations are discussed by the Committee and adopted or amended as the Committee sees fit.
No Director is present at any part of a meeting of the Committee when their remuneration or contractual terms are being discussed.
Remuneration Policy When setting the remuneration policy, the Committee applies the principles set out in Schedule A of the Combined Code and also takes into account best practice guidance issued by its shareholders and the major UK institutional investor bodies.
The Committee reviewed the draft recommendations published by the FSA during the year on supporting sound risk management when setting incentive arrangements and reviewed the remuneration policy against the good and bad practices identified by the FSA.
The Committee concluded that in all areas, the Company met or exceeded the FSAs definition of good practice, for example through linking a significant proportion of the remuneration package to the long-term performance of the Company through the Performance Share Plan awards, setting limits on the maximum annual bonus potential that can be earned by an individual and by requiring a substantial proportion of the remuneration package to be delivered in shares.
Therefore, no changes to the remuneration policy were proposed as a result of this review.
However, the Committee will continue to review and assess the remuneration arrangements to ensure that they support good governance practices and take account of further guidance issued by the FSA.
The remuneration policy, as approved by the Committee, is designed to ensure that remuneration is sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate executive Directors of sufficient calibre to enable the Group to achieve its business objectives.
The Committee aims to set fixed benefits salary, pension and fringe benefits at below the median position for companies of a similar size in the UK financial services market although a cross check is also made against companies of a similar size in other sectors, with significant annual bonus and long term incentive awards enhancing an executives potential total remuneration to on or above the median, but only if stretching short term and long term performance targets are achieved.
In this way, the Committee aims to incentivise the Directors to achieve above 65 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
