214443 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK SEC:JR0534 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK 12 3 09 01:31 Page 94 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued x Foreign currency translation The Groups presentational currency is pounds sterling.
The functional currency of the Groups foreign operations is the currency of the primary economic environment in which these entities operate.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into sterling using the approximate exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gain or losses on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities which are held at historical cost are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the date of transaction: those held at fair value are translated using exchange rates ruling at the date on which the fair value was determined.
y Segment reporting The principal activity of the Group is the transaction of long-term insurance and investment business and the Group segments its operations by lines of business: life, unit trust and other business revenues.
Revenues and expenses allocated to business units reflect those revenues and expenses generated in or incurred by the legal entities comprising the segments.
Separate geographical segmental information is not presented since the Group does not segment its business geographically, its customers being based and its assets managed predominantly in the United Kingdom.
z Current and non-current disclosure Assets which are expected to be recovered or settled no more than twelve months after the balance sheet date are disclosed as current within the notes to the accounts.
Those expected to be recovered or settled more than twelve months after the balance sheet date are disclosed as non-current.
Liabilities which are expected and due to be settled no more than twelve months after the balance sheet date are disclosed as current within the notes to the accounts.
Those liabilities which are expected and due to be settled more than twelve months after the balance sheet date are disclosed as non-current.
Deferred tax balances are all treated as non-current.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies Judgements The primary area in which the Group has applied judgement in applying accounting policies lies in the classification and unbundling of contracts between insurance and investment business.
Contracts with a significant degree of insurance risk are treated as insurance: pension contracts in general have been treated as investment contracts and, where they contain a significant degree of insurance risk, the insurance and investment components have been unbundled.
All other contracts are treated as investment contracts.
The Group has also elected to treat all assets backing linked and non unit linked contracts as fair value through profit or loss although some of the assets in question may ultimately be held to maturity.
94 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
