214443 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK SEC:JR0534 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK 12 3 09 01:31 Page 87 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies a Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial information incorporates the assets, liabilities and the results of the Company and of its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are those entities in which the Group directly or indirectly has the power to govern the financial and operating policies in order to gain benefits from its activities including unit trusts in which the Group holds more than half of the units.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Intragroup balances, and any income and expenses or unrealised gains and losses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
b Product classification The Groups products are classified for accounting purposes as either insurance contracts or investment contracts.
i Insurance contracts Insurance contracts are contracts that transfer significant insurance risk.
The Groups product range includes a variety of term assurance and whole of life protection contracts involving significant insurance risk transfer.
ii Investment contracts Contracts that do not transfer significant insurance risk are treated as investment contracts.
The majority of the business written by the Group is unit linked investment business and is classified as investment contracts.
Where contracts contain both insurance and investment components and the investment components can be measured reliably, specifically unit linked pension contracts, the contracts are unbundled and the components are separately accounted for as insurance contracts and investment contracts respectively.
c Long-term business i Insurance premium revenue For unit linked insurance contracts, premiums are recognised as revenue when the liabilities arising from them are recognised.
All other premiums are accounted for when due for payment.
Investment contract premiums are not included in the income statement but are reported as deposits to investment contract liabilities in the balance sheet.
ii Revenue from investment contracts Fees charged for services related to the management of investment contracts are recognised as revenue as the services are provided.
Initial fees, which exceed the level of recurring fees and relate to the future provision of services, are deferred.
These are amortised over the anticipated period in which services will be provided.
87 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008 214443 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK SEC:JR0534 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK 12 3 09 01:31 Page 88 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued iii Policy claims and benefits For insurance contracts, death claims are accounted for on notification of death.
Critical illness claims are accounted for when admitted.
All other claims and surrenders are accounted for when payment is due.
For investment contracts, benefits paid are not included in the income statement but are instead deducted from investment contract liabilities.
The movement in investment contract benefits within the income statement principally represents the investment return credited to policyholders.
iv Acquisition costs For insurance contracts, acquisition costs comprise direct costs such as initial commission and the indirect costs of obtaining and processing new business.
Acquisition costs which are incurred during a financial year, net of any impairment losses, are deferred and then amortised over the period during which the costs are expected to be recoverable and in accordance with the incidence of future related margins.
For investment contracts, only directly attributable acquisition costs, which vary with and are related to securing new contracts and renewing existing contracts, are deferred to the extent that they are recoverable out of future revenue.
These deferred acquisition costs, which represent the contractual right to benefit from providing investment management services, net of any impairment losses, are amortised on a straight-line basis over the expected lifetime of the Groups investment contracts.
All other costs are recognised as expenses when incurred.
Where contracts contain both insurance and investment components, specifically unit linked pension contracts, the associated deferred acquisition costs are classified as deferred acquisition costs on investment contracts.
The associated deferred income on such contracts is included in deferred income on investment contracts.
v Insurance contract liabilities Insurance contract liability provisions are determined following an annual actuarial investigation of the long-term fund in accordance with regulatory requirements.
The provisions are calculated on the basis of current information and using the gross premium valuation method.
The Groups accounting policies for insurance contracts meet the minimum specified requirements for liability adequacy testing under IFRS 4, as they consider current estimates of all contractual cash flows, and of related cash flow such as claims handling costs.
Long-term business provisions can never be definitive as to their timing nor the amount of claims and are therefore subject to subsequent reassessment on a regular basis.
vi Investment contract liabilities All the Groups investment contracts are unit linked.
Unit linked liabilities are measured at fair value by reference to the value of the underlying net asset value of the Group's unitised investment funds, determined on a bid value, at the balance sheet date.
An allowance for deduction of future tax to be paid in respect of unrealised capital gains, discounted to reflect the time period over which such gains are expected to be realised, is also reflected in the measurement of unit linked liabilities.
Investment contract liabilities are recognised when units are first allocated to the policyholder: they are derecognised when units allocated to the policyholder have been cancelled.
The decision by the Group to designate its unit linked liabilities as fair value through the income statement reflects the fact that the underlying investment portfolio is managed, and its performance evaluated, on a fair value basis.
88 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
