214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 48 Corporate Governance Report continued When determining whether a non-executive Director is independent, the Board considers individually for each nonexecutive Director whether they are independent in character and judgement.
Other criteria include how they conduct themselves in Board meetings, whether they have any relationships or other circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement, and whether they act in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders at all times.
Derek Netherton has served on the Board for more than nine years which is a relevant factor in the consideration of his independence.
The Board has considered this point with particular care.
Derek continues to demonstrate independence of mind and contributes significantly through his individual skills and extensive knowledge of the financial services sector at Board and Committee meetings.
He questions and constructively challenges management as and when he considers it appropriate.
His financial and actuarial knowledge is particularly helpful in connection with his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Board does not believe that it is in the interests of the Company to replace Derek Netherton with a further independent non-executive Director at the present time.
This matter is subject to annual review by the Board with the assistance of the Nominations Committee.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive Directors are available on request and will be available at the Annual General Meeting in April 2009.
The Senior Independent Director Michael Sorkin is the Senior Independent Director.
Michael is available to meet with shareholders on request and to ensure that the Board is aware of shareholder concerns not resolved through the existing mechanisms for investor communication.
Induction and Continuing Professional Development On joining the Board, Directors are given a pack of documents detailing the main activities of the Group and are provided with an appropriate induction programme.
The programme includes an opportunity to meet with senior management, Partners and visit office locations around the country.
Ongoing training is provided to Directors on a rolling programme coordinated by the Company Secretary.
During 2008 a number of non-executive Directors attended location meetings and the Double Partner Development Conference, where they received presentations on the business and had an opportunity to meet with Partners and staff.
Non-executive Directors are briefed on the views of major shareholders at Board meetings and have an opportunity to meet with shareholders as necessary.
Company Secretary Directors are regularly updated on their duties and responsibilities and have access to the advice of the Company Secretary as well as independent professional advice where needed in furtherance of their duties.
Further training is made available as necessary to ensure that the whole Board is kept abreast of relevant developments applicable to their roles.
Topical issues are addressed prior to each Board meeting.
For example, the Board has been updated during the year by the Company Secretary on the new Directors duties and the new rules on conflicts of interest set out in the Companies Act 2006.
The Company Secretary also presented the results of the 2008 staff survey as well as the implications of the FSAs Retail Distribution Review.
Board Evaluation During the year, the Chairman met each non-executive Director on a one-to-one basis and held meetings with the nonexecutive Directors collectively.
Issues discussed included topics for pre-Board presentations, training requirements for non-executive Directors and results of the performance evaluation of the Board.
The non-executive Directors, led by 48 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
