214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 56 Corporate Governance Report continued This system of internal control is designed to ensure that the primary objectives of compliance with applicable laws and regulation, effective and efficient operations, quality financial and operational reporting and safeguarding of assets, are met.
When control issues of significance have occurred the Audit Committee has received full and detailed reports from management and Internal Audit, including proposals for amending and strengthening the business systems involved in line with the Groups focus on continuous improvement.
Where appropriate, such cases have been taken forward to the Board by the Chairman of the Audit Committee for noting and discussion.
In establishing the system of internal control, the Directors have regard to the materiality of relevant risks, the likelihood of risks occurring and the cost of mitigating risks.
It is therefore designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
In the Boards view, the information it has received from entity wide risk assessment, operational management, and the reports issued by Internal Audit has been sufficient to enable it to properly review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance for Directors on Internal Control.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Report and Accounts and the Financial Statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Report and Accounts and the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
The group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, to present fairly the financial position and the performance of the group: the Companies Act 1985 provides, in relation to such financial statements, that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view, are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
In preparing each of the group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: For the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the EU: For the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
56 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008 214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 57 Corporate Governance Report continued The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors have chosen to prepare supplementary information in accordance with the European Embedded Value Principles issued in May 2004 by the Chief Financial Officers Forum as supplemented by the Additional Guidance on European Embedded Value Disclosures issued in October 2005 the EEV Principles.
When compliance with the EEV Principles is stated, those principles require the Directors to prepare supplementary information in accordance with the Embedded Value Methodology EVM contained in the EEV Principles and to disclose and explain any noncompliance with the EEV Guidance included in the EEV Principles.
In preparing the EEV supplementary information, the directors have: Prepared the supplementary information in accordance with the EEV Principles: Identified and described the business covered by the EVM: Applied the EVM consistently to the covered business: Determined assumptions on a realistic basis, having regard to past, current and expected future experience and to any relevant external data, and then applied them consistently: and Made estimates that are reasonable and consistent.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
57 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
