214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 47 Corporate Governance Report continued In advance of each meeting, all members are supplied with an agenda and pack containing reports on current trading, sales, operational issues, compliance, risk, accounting and financial matters.
The chairmen of the various subCommittees of the Board also report to the Board at each meeting and copies of Board Committee minutes are included in the packs for information purposes.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it - a copy of which can be found in the Corporate Governance section of the corporate website.
The primary responsibilities of the Board include: Determining the overall strategy of the Company: Ensuring that the Companys operations are well managed and proper succession plans are in place: Reviewing major transactions or initiatives proposed by the executive Directors: Implementing appropriate Corporate Governance procedures: Periodically reviewing the results and operations of the Company: Ensuring that proper accounting records are maintained and adequate controls are in place to safeguard the assets of the Company from fraud and other significant risks: Identifying and managing risk: and Deciding the Companys policy on charitable and political donations.
The Company has developed a Board Control Manual which sets out the primary policy and decision-making mechanisms within the Company.
The manual contains the terms of reference of the various sub-Committees of the Board as well as the Companys risk policies.
In addition, detailed job descriptions for each executive and subsidiary Director are included as well as a general job description outlining the responsibilities of the non-executive Directors.
The manual is reviewed and updated by the Company Secretary and circulated to the Board annually.
The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the Board, Mike Wilson, and the Chief Executive, David Bellamy, is clearly defined and has been approved by the Board.
No single individual has unfettered powers of decision making.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring the continued effectiveness of the Board and communication with shareholders.
He also liaises with senior members of the Partnership and acts as a sounding board to the senior management team, where appropriate.
The Chief Executives primary responsibility is to manage the Company via the executive management team and implement the strategies adopted by the Board.
Directors and Directors Independence As mentioned above, the Board comprises an executive Chairman, five independent non-executive Directors, two non-independent non-executive Directors and four executive Directors.
Simon Gulliford resigned as a non-executive Director in February 2008 and, as stated previously, the Nominations Committee is in the process of seeking to identify a new independent non-executive Director for appointment to the Board as soon as possible.
Andy Hornby resigned as a non-executive Director on 16 January 2009 following his resignation from the Board of HBOS plc and was replaced on the Board by Steve Colsell on 30 January 2009, pursuant to the Relationship Agreement with HBOS plc.
Steve Colsells biographical details are included in the Directors biographies on page39.
The quality of the individual Directors and the Boards composition is a key contributor to the Boards effectiveness.
Committee membership is kept under review to ensure gradual refreshing of skills and experience.
The Board is satisfied that all Directors have sufficient time to devote to their roles and that it is not placing undue reliance on key individuals.
47 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
