214443 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK SEC:JR0534 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK 12 3 09 01:32 Page 121 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 28.
Capital management and allocation It is the Groups policy to maintain a strong capital base in order to: protect policyholders and creditors interests: support the development of its business and create shareholder value: and meet regulatory requirements at all times.
Within the Group each subsidiary manages its own capital in the context of the Group capital plan.
Capital generated in excess of planned requirements is returned to the Groups parent, St. Jamess Place plc, normally by way of dividends.
The Group capital plan is monitored by the Capital Management and Tax Committee for the St. Jamess Place plc Board.
The Groups policy is for each company to hold the higher of: the companys internal assessment of the capital required: and the capital requirement of the relevant supervisory body plus a specified margin over this to absorb changes.
Generally, because of the nature of the business and the current regulatory rules, the higher requirement is that of the supervisory body plus the specified margin.
The following entities are under supervisory regulation and have to maintain a minimum level of regulatory capital: Regulatory Body and Jurisdiction St. Jamess Place UK plc FSA: Long-term insurance business St. Jamess Place International plc Irish Financial Regulator: Life insurance business St. Jamess Place Unit Trust Group Ltd FSA: UCITS Management Company St. Jamess Place Wealth Management plc FSA: Personal Investment Firm St. Jamess Place Reinsurance Ltd Irish Financial Regulator: Reinsurance The FSA regulatory requirement for St. Jamess Place UK plc SJPUK, which makes up the majority of the Group capital requirement, includes the prescribed minimum solvency margin requirement the Capital Resources Requirement CRR and an assessment of the risks faced under the business, known as the Individual Capital Assessment.
The capital requirement is assessed and monitored by the Actuarial Committee, one of the principal committees of the Executive Committee of the St. Jamess Place plc Board.
There has been no material change in the Groups management of capital during the period.
121 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
