214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 50 Corporate Governance Report continued Procedures to Deal with Directors Conflicts of Interest At the 2008 AGM, shareholders amended the Articles of Association to include provisions for dealing with Directors conflicts of interest as permitted under the new Companies Act 2006.
During the year, procedures were approved by the Board to deal with situations where a Director either has a conflict of interest or where a potential conflict of interest situation may arise.
Under the procedures, the relevant Director must disclose to the Board the actual or potential conflict of interest for discussion by the other members of the Board.
The Board will consider the potential conflict on its particular facts and decide whether to waive the potential conflict if it believes this to be in the best interests of the Company.
The process also involves keeping detailed records and Board minutes in respect of authorisations granted by the Board and the scope of approvals given.
Regular reviews of conflict authorisations will be undertaken by the Board, at least annually.
Relations with Shareholders The Board maintains close relationships with institutional shareholders through dialogue and frequent meetings.
The Company also meets regularly with JPMorgan Cazenove who facilitate meetings with investors and their representatives.
Attendance notes from each meeting are circulated to members of the Board to enable them to be aware of the views and opinions of major shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director is available for consultation with shareholders and other non-executive Directors are also available to meet with major shareholders on request.
Members of the Board will be available at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to answer shareholders questions on the Companys business and the activities of the Board and its Committees.
Relationship with Lloyds Banking Group plc The Company entered into a Relationship Agreement the Agreement with Halifax Group plc in 2000 to regulate the relationship between the two companies after the completion of a Partial Offer.
The Agreement was novated to HBOS plc, following the merger between Halifax and Bank of Scotland in 2001 and on 16 January 2009, HBOS plc was acquired by Lloyds TSB Bank plc, which has changed its name to Lloyds Banking Group plc LBG.
The principal purpose of the Agreement is to ensure the Company operates independently of LBG and to provide that the relationship between LBG and the Company will be conducted on an arms length basis.
Under the Agreement, LBG has the authority to appoint a number of Directors to the Board and its Committees.
The number varies in relation to LBGs shareholding in the Company.
LBG currently has the right to appoint three non-executive Directors to the Board although, at the date of this report, LBG has appointed two non-executive Directors to the Board, being Jo Dawson and Steve Colsell.
Urgent Issues Committee The Urgent Issues Committee comprises the Chairman and at least two other Directors, one of whom must be a nonexecutive Director.
The role of the Committee is to make decisions on matters of urgency which cannot await the next meeting of the Board.
It can act only by unanimous decision.
If this cannot be reached, the issue under consideration will be referred for decision to the full Board.
The Committee did not meet during the year.
50 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
