214443 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK SEC:JR0534 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK 12 3 09 01:31 Page 87 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies a Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial information incorporates the assets, liabilities and the results of the Company and of its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are those entities in which the Group directly or indirectly has the power to govern the financial and operating policies in order to gain benefits from its activities including unit trusts in which the Group holds more than half of the units.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Intragroup balances, and any income and expenses or unrealised gains and losses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
b Product classification The Groups products are classified for accounting purposes as either insurance contracts or investment contracts.
i Insurance contracts Insurance contracts are contracts that transfer significant insurance risk.
The Groups product range includes a variety of term assurance and whole of life protection contracts involving significant insurance risk transfer.
ii Investment contracts Contracts that do not transfer significant insurance risk are treated as investment contracts.
The majority of the business written by the Group is unit linked investment business and is classified as investment contracts.
Where contracts contain both insurance and investment components and the investment components can be measured reliably, specifically unit linked pension contracts, the contracts are unbundled and the components are separately accounted for as insurance contracts and investment contracts respectively.
c Long-term business i Insurance premium revenue For unit linked insurance contracts, premiums are recognised as revenue when the liabilities arising from them are recognised.
All other premiums are accounted for when due for payment.
Investment contract premiums are not included in the income statement but are reported as deposits to investment contract liabilities in the balance sheet.
ii Revenue from investment contracts Fees charged for services related to the management of investment contracts are recognised as revenue as the services are provided.
Initial fees, which exceed the level of recurring fees and relate to the future provision of services, are deferred.
These are amortised over the anticipated period in which services will be provided.
87 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
