214443 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK SEC:JR0534 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK 12 3 09 01:32 Page 135 Notes to the Parent Company Accounts 1.
Accounting policies Basis of Preparation St Jamess Place plc the Company is a limited liability company incorporated in England and Wales and whose shares are publicly traded.
The Company offers a range of insurance, investment and other wealth management services through its subsidiaries, which are principally incorporated in the UK and Ireland.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and under the historical cost convention.
The Company has elected to continue to prepare the parent financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In publishing the parent company financial statements, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption in Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form part of these financial statements.
As discussed in the Directors Report, the going concern basis has been adopted in preparing these accounts.
All accounting policies have been reviewed for appropriateness in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard FRS 18 Accounting Policies.
In accordance with FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements, the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that this is provided in its consolidated financial statements, which are publicly available.
Significant Accounting Policies a Investment return Investment return comprises dividends from subsidiaries, which are accounted for when received.
b Taxation Taxation is based on profits and income for the period as determined in accordance with the relevant tax legislation, together with adjustments to provisions for prior periods.
c Investment in subsidiaries Investment in subsidiaries are carried at cost after impairment losses, plus the cost of share awards, granted by the Company of its own shares.
d Receivables Other receivables are stated at amortised cost less impairment losses.
e Other creditors and amounts owed to Group undertakings Other creditors and amounts owed to Group undertakings are stated at amortised cost.
f Impairment losses The carrying amounts of the assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If there is any indication of irrecoverability or impairment, the assets recoverable amount is estimated based on the present value of its estimated future cash flows.
135 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
