214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 49 Corporate Governance Report continued the Senior Independent Director, also met without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance and to discuss other topical issues such as succession plans and the overall performance of the Board.
The Senior Independent Director carried out a formal appraisal of the Chairmans performance.
The Board carried out an annual evaluation of its own performance, including its Committees and individual Directors.
The Board evaluation was carried out by the Company Secretary, who conducted interviews with each member of the Board.
The findings were presented to the Board and a number of improvements made such as ensuring more information is provided in Board packs on competitor activity, stress testing and scenario planning.
Board Committees The Board has formally constituted six Committees, being the Audit, Investment, Nominations, Remuneration, Risk and Urgent Issues Committees.
The membership and terms of reference of the Committees are reviewed at least annually and are available on the Companys website www.
co. uk or on request from the Company.
Attendance at Meetings The attendance by individual directors at Board and Committee meetings during the year ended 31 December 2008 was as follows: Board Risk Audit Remuneration Nominations Investment 7 meetings 5 meetings 5 meetings 3 meetings 2 meetings 7 meetings Sarah Bates 7 4 - - - 7 David Bellamy 7 - - - - Andrew Croft 7 - - - - 7 Jo Dawson 4 - - - - - Ian Gascoigne 7 - - - - - Andy Hornby 5 - - - - - David Lamb 6 - - - - 7 Derek Netherton 7 - 5 3 2 - Mike Power 6 4 5 - - - Michael Sorkin 7 - 5 3 2 6 Roger Walsom 7 5 - 1 1 - - Mike Wilson 7 - - - 2 - Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings in the period in which the Director was a Board or Committee member.
David Bellamy and Ian Gascoigne attend Risk Committee meetings.
Mike Wilson and David Bellamy attend Remuneration Committee meetings as required.
Andrew Croft and David Lamb attend all Investment Committee meetings, whilst Andrew Croft attended all Audit Committee meetings during the year.
Steve Colsell also attended all Audit Committee meetings during the year as the HBOS representative in accordance with the Relationship Agreement with HBOS plc.
Directors and Officers Indemnity and Insurance The Company has taken out insurance covering Directors and officers against liabilities they may incur in their capacity as Directors or officers.
All members of the Board and other senior employees who act as Directors of subsidiary companies are each granted indemnities from the Company to the extent permitted by law.
These indemnities are uncapped in amount and protect recipients from certain losses and liabilities that they may incur to third parties in connection with the furtherance of their duties as Directors of the Company or its subsidiaries.
Copies of the indemnities are available to shareholders upon request.
49 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
