Notes to the financial statements 1.
Accounting policies Consolidation Subsidiaries Statement of compliance Subsidiaries are all entities, including special purpose entities The Group financial statements consolidate those of the SPEs, over which the Group has the power to directly or Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group, indirectly govern the financial and operating policies, generally equity account the Groups interest in associates and accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the proportionately consolidate interests in jointly controlled entities.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date The parent company financial statements present information on which the Group effectively obtains control.
They are fideabout the Company as a separate entity and not about its group.
consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Both the parent company financial statements and the Group SPEs are consolidated when the substance of the relationship financial statements have been prepared and approved by the between the Group and its entity indicates control by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Group.
Potential indicators of control include amongst others, an Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting assessment of risks and benefits in respect of the SPEs activities.
Interpretation Committee IFRIC Interpretations as adopted The purchase method of accounting is used to account for by the EU together adopted IFRS.
In publishing the parent the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an company financial statements together with the Group acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, financial statements, the Company has taken advantage of equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the exemption in section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not the date of exchange, together with costs directly attributable to to present its individual income statement and related notes the acquisition.
Identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities that form a part of these approved financial statements.
acquired are fair valued at the acquisition date, irrespective The Group has retrospectively adopted IFRIC 11 IFRS 2: Group of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost and Treasury Share Transactions, and prospectively adopted of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on Defined Benefit Asset Minimum identiable net assets and contingent liabilities acquired is Funding Requirements and their Interaction, neither of which recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than had an impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements.
the fair value of the net assets and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the The Group has adopted the amendments to IAS 39 Financial income statement.
Where the fair values of the identifiable net Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 7 Financial assets and contingent liabilities acquired have been determined Instruments: Disclosures in respect of the reclassification of provisionally, or where contingent or deferred consideration is financial assets, which was effective from 1 July 2008 for those payable, any adjustments arising from their subsequent finalisation assets identified and approved by management for reclassification on or before 31 October 2008.
The details of the assets are made as of the date of acquisition and amounts restated reclassified and the amounts involved are set out in note 15. as appropriate.
The disclosures required by IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains Disclosures and the capital disclosures within IAS 1 Presentation on transactions between Group companies are eliminated in of Financial Statements are presented within the Risk Review the Group accounts.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated on pages 43 to 63 and Capital on pages 64 to 65, except unless the transaction provides evidence of impairment of where indicated as not audited, and in the notes to the the asset transferred.
Associates The consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2007 has been Associates are all entities over which the Group has the ability to restated as explained in note 53 to a reflect the revised fair signicantly inuence, but not control, the financial and operating values of the assets and liabilities acquired on the acquisitions policies and procedures generally accompanying a shareholding of Pembroke and Harrison Lovegrove: and b to reflect the of between 20 per cent and 50 per cent of the voting rights.
re-presentation of current and deferred tax balances.
The Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity Company cash flow statement has been re-presented as method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill identied Basis of preparation on acquisition net of any accumulated impairment loss.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or cash-settled share based payments, available-for-sale assets, losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of and financial assets and liabilities including derivatives at fair post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
value through profit or loss.
The Company financial statements The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against have been prepared on an historical cost basis, as modified the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share by the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities including of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the derivatives at fair value through profit or loss.
associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest The accounting policies set out below have been applied in the associates.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless consistently across the Group and to all periods presented the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the in these financial statements.
com 101 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating Consolidation continued units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Joint ventures Interests in jointly controlled entities are recognised using Acquired intangibles proportionate consolidation whereby the Groups share of At the date of acquisition of a subsidiary or associate, intangible the joint ventures assets, liabilities, income and expenses assets which are deemed separable and that arise from are combined line by line with similar items in the Groups contractual or other legal rights are capitalised and included financial statements.
within the net identifiable assets acquired.
These intangible assets are initially measured at fair value, which reflects market Investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures expectations of the probability that the future economic benefits In the Companys financial statements, investments in subsidiaries, embodied in the asset will flow to the entity, and are amortised associates and joint ventures are held at cost less impairment on the basis of their expected useful lives four to 16 years.
and dividends from pre-acquisition profits received, if any.
At each balance sheet date, these assets are assessed for indicators of impairment.
In the event that an assets carrying Foreign currency translation amount is determined to be greater than its recoverable amount, Both the parent company financial statements and the Group the asset is written down immediately.
financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the presentation currency of the Group and the functional and Computer software presentation currency of the Company.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the Transactions and balances specic software.
Costs associated with the development of Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional software are capitalised where it is probable that it will generate currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the future economic benefits in excess of its cost.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from software costs are amortised on the basis of expected useful life the settlement of such transactions, and from the translation three to five years.
Costs associated with maintaining software at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities are recognised as an expense as incurred.
At each balance denominated in foreign currencies, are recognised in the income sheet date, these assets are assessed for indicators of statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at impairment.
In the event that an assets carrying amount is historical exchange rates if held at historical cost, or year-end determined to be greater than its recoverable amount, the exchange rates if held at fair value, and the resulting foreign asset is written down immediately.
exchange gains and losses are recognised in either the income statement or shareholders equity depending on the treatment Property, plant and equipment of the gain or loss on the asset or liability.
Land and buildings comprise mainly branches and offices.
All property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated Group companies depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditure The results and financial position of all the entities included in that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets.
the Group financial statements that have a functional currency different from the Groups presentation currency are accounted Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or for as follows: are recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benets associated with the assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are item will ow to the Group and the cost of the item can be translated at the closing rate at the balance sheet date: measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance are income and expenses for each income statement are translated charged to the income statement during the financial period at average exchange rates or at rates on the date of the in which they are incurred.
transaction where exchange rates fluctuate significantly: and Freehold land is not depreciated although it is subject to all resulting exchange differences arising since 1 January 2004 impairment testing.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated are recognised as a separate component of equity.
using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of Buildings up to 50 years borrowings and other currency instruments designated as Leasehold improvements life of lease, up to 50 years hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders equity.
When a foreign operation is sold or capital repatriated they Equipment and motor vehicles three to 15 years are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
At each Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition balance sheet date, assets are also assessed for indicators of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the of impairment.
In the event that an assets carrying amount foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
is determined to be greater than its recoverable amount, the Intangible assets asset is written down immediately to the recoverable amount.
Goodwill Gains and losses on disposals are included in the income statement.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identiable net assets Leases and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary or associate Where a Group company is the lessee at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries The leases entered into by the Group are primarily operating is included in Intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of leases.
The total payments made under operating leases are associates is included in Investments in associates.
Goodwill is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over assessed at each balance sheet date for impairment and carried at the period of the lease.
cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and losses on 102 Standard Chartered 2008 1.
Accounting policies continued benefits are vested on a straight-line basis.
Current service costs and any past service costs, together with the unwinding of the Leases continued discount on plan liabilities, offset by the expected return on plan When an operating lease is terminated before the lease period assets, are charged to operating expenses.
has expired, any payment required to be made to the lessor by way of penalty is recognised as an expense in the period Share-based compensation in which termination takes place.
The Group operates equity-settled and cash-settled sharebased compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee Where the Group is a lessee under finance leases, the leased services received in exchange for the grant of the options assets are capitalised and included in Property, plant and is recognised as an expense.
equipment with a corresponding liability to the lessor recognised in Other liabilities.
Finance charges payable are recognised over For equity-settled awards, the total amount to be expensed over the period of the lease based on the interest rate implicit in the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value the lease to give a constant periodic rate of return.
of the options granted, which excludes the impact of any nonmarket vesting conditions for example, profitability and growth Where a Group company is the lessor targets.
The fair value of equity instruments granted is based on When assets are leased to customers under finance leases, market prices, if available, at the date of grant.
In the absence of the present value of the lease payments is recognised as a market prices, the fair value of the instruments is estimated using receivable.
The difference between the gross receivable and an appropriate valuation technique, such as a binomial option the present value of the receivable is recognised as unearned pricing model.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in finance income.
Lease income is recognised over the term assumptions about the number of options that are expected to of the lease using the net investment method before tax, which vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates reects a constant periodic rate of return ignoring tax cash flows.
of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises Assets leased to customers under operating leases are included the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the within Property, plant and equipment and depreciated over income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity their useful lives.
Rental income on these leased assets is over the remaining vesting period.
For forfeitures prior to vesting recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis attributable to factors other than failure to satisfy market-based unless another systematic basis is more representative.
performance conditions, the cumulative charge incurred is credited to the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash ow statement, cash and cash The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction equivalents comprise balances with less than three months costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share maturity from the date of acquisition, including: cash and premium when the options are exercised.
balances at central banks unless restricted, treasury bills Cash-settled awards are revalued at each balance sheet date and other eligible bills, loans and advances to banks, and and a liability recognised on the balance sheet for all unpaid short-term government securities.
amounts, with any changes in fair value charged or credited Provisions to staff costs in the income statement.
Provisions for restructuring costs and legal claims are recognised Taxation when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that an temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Deferred income tax is determined using Employee benets tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially Pension obligations enacted as at the balance sheet date, and that are expected The Group operates a number of pension and other postto apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised retirement benefit plans around the world, including defined or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
contribution plans and defined benefit plans.
Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that For dened contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary publicly or privately administered pension plans on a mandatory, differences can be utilised.
contractual or voluntary basis, and such amounts are charged Income tax payable on profits is based on the applicable tax to operating expenses.
The Group has no further payment law in each jurisdiction and is recognised as an expense in the obligations once the contributions have been paid.
period in which profits arise.
The tax effects of income tax losses For defined benefit plans, the liability recognised in the balance available for carry forward are recognised as an asset when it is sheet is the present value of the dened benefit obligation at the probable that future taxable profits will be available against which balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
The dened these losses can be utilised.
benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries Current and deferred tax relating to items which are charged using the projected unit method.
The present value of the dened or credited directly to equity, is credited or charged directly to benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future equity and is subsequently recognised in the income statement cash outows using an interest rate equal to the yield on hightogether with the current or deferred gain or loss.
quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benets will be paid, and that have a term to maturity approximating to the term of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses that arise are recognised in shareholders equity and presented in the statement of recognised income and expense in the period they arise.
Past service costs are recognised immediately to the extent that benefits are vested and are otherwise recognised over the average period until www.
com 103 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Financial assets and liabilities may be designated at fair value through profit or loss when: Borrowings the designation eliminates or significantly reduces a Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, being their measurement or recognition inconsistency that would issue proceeds fair value of consideration received net of otherwise arise from measuring assets or liabilities on a directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings different basis: or are subsequently stated at amortised cost, with any difference between proceeds net of directly attributable transaction a group of financial assets and or liabilities is managed and costs and the redemption value recognised in the income its performance evaluated on a fair value basis: or statement over the period of the borrowings using the the assets or liabilities include embedded derivatives and effective interest method.
such derivatives are required to be recognised separately.
Preference shares which carry a mandatory coupon that represents b Loans and receivables a market rate of interest at the issue date, or which are redeemable Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with on a specic date or at the option of the shareholder are classied xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an as financial liabilities and are presented in other borrowed funds.
The dividends on these preference shares are recognised in the c Held-to-maturity income statement as interest expense on an amortised cost basis Held-to-maturity assets are non-derivative financial assets with using the effective interest method.
xed or determinable payments and xed maturities that the If the Group purchases its own debt, it is removed from the Groups management has the positive intention and ability balance sheet, and the difference between the carrying amount of to hold to maturity.
the liability and the consideration paid is included in other income.
d Available-for-sale Share capital Available-for-sale assets are those non-derivative financial assets Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares intended to be held for an indefinite period of time, which may be or options, or to the acquisition of a business, are shown in sold in response to liquidity requirements or changes in interest equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
rates, exchange rates, commodity prices or equity prices.
Dividends on ordinary shares and preference shares classified Initial recognition as equity are recognised in equity in the period in which they Purchases and sales of financial assets and liabilities held at fair are declared.
value through profit or loss, financial assets held-to-maturity and available-for-sale are initially recognised on trade-date the date Where the Company or other members of the consolidated on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Group purchases the Companys equity share capital, the Loans are recognised when cash is advanced to the borrowers.
consideration paid is deducted from the total shareholders Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recognised equity of the Group and or of the Company as treasury shares at fair value plus, for those financial assets and liabilities not until they are cancelled.
Where such shares are subsequently carried at fair value through profit and loss, directly attributable sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in transaction costs.
In those cases where the initially recognised shareholders equity of the Group and or the Company.
fair value is based on a valuation model that uses inputs which Fiduciary activities are not observable in the market, the difference between the The Group commonly acts as trustee and in other duciary transaction price and the valuation model is not recognised capacities that result in the holding or placing of assets on immediately in the income statement.
The difference is behalf of individuals, trusts, retirement benefit plans and other amortised to the income statement until the inputs become institutions.
The assets and income arising thereon are excluded observable, or the transaction matures or is terminated.
from these financial statements, as they are not assets of Subsequent measurement the Group.
Financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit Financial assets and liabilities excluding derivatives or loss are subsequently carried at fair value, with gains and The Group classies its financial assets in the following losses arising from changes in fair value taken directly to the categories: financial assets held at fair value through profit or income statement.
loss: loans and receivables: held-to-maturity investments and Available-for-sale financial assets are subsequently carried at fair available-for-sale financial assets.
Financial liabilities are classified value, with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value as either held at fair value through profit or loss, or at amortised taken to a separate component of equity until the asset is sold, cost.
Management determines the classication of its financial or is impaired, when the cumulative gain or loss is transferred assets and liabilities at initial recognition or, where appropriate, to the income statement.
at the time of reclassification.
Loans and receivables and held to maturity financial assets a Financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective profit or loss interest method.
This category has two sub-categories: financial assets and liabilities held for trading, and those designated at fair value The fair values of quoted financial assets or financial liabilities in through profit or loss at inception.
A financial asset or liability active markets are based on current prices.
If the market for a is classied as trading if acquired principally for the purpose financial asset or financial liability is not active, and for unlisted of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are also categorised securities, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation as trading unless they are designated as hedges.
These include the use of recent arms length transactions, discounted cash ow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
Contractual interest income and expense on financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss is Financial assets and liabilities excluding derivatives recognised within net interest income.
For trading financial continued instruments, interest income and expense is recognised within Reclassifications net interest income using the effective interest method.
Reclassifications of financial assets, other than as disclosed below, or of financial liabilities between categories are not Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of permitted following their initial recognition.
available-for-sale financial assets, other than foreign exchange gains and losses from monetary items, are recognised directly Held for trading non-derivative financial assets can only be in equity, until the financial asset is derecognised or impaired transferred out of the held at fair value through profit or loss at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised category in the following circumstances: i to the available-forin equity is recognised in profit or loss.
sale category, where, in rare circumstances, they are no longer held for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term: Dividends on equity instruments are recognised in the income or ii to the loan and receivables category, where they are no statement within Other income when the Groups right to longer held for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the receive payment is established.
near term and they would have met the definition of a loan Impairment of financial assets and receivable on initial recognition and the Group has the Assets carried at amortised cost intent and ability to hold the assets for the foreseeable future The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there or until maturity.
is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial Financial assets can only be transferred out of the available-forassets is impaired.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets sale category to the loan and receivables category, where they is impaired and impairment losses are incurred if, and only if, would have met the definition of a loan and receivable on initial there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or recognition and the Group has the intent and ability to hold the more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
a loss event, and that loss event or events has an impact on the estimated future cash ows of the financial asset or group Held-to-maturity assets are reclassified to the available-for-sale of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
category if the portfolio becomes tainted following the sale of other than an insignificant amount of held-to-maturity assets The following factors are considered in assessing objective prior to their maturity.
evidence of impairment: Financial assets reclassified are done so at their fair value on whether the customer is more than 90 days past due: the date of reclassification.
For financial assets reclassified out a customer files for bankruptcy protection or the local of the available-for-sale category into loans and receivables, any equivalent where this would avoid or delay repayment gain or loss on those assets recognised in shareholders equity of its obligation: prior to the date of reclassification is amortised to the income statement over the remaining life of the financial asset, using the the Group files to have the customer declared bankrupt effective interest method.
or files a similar order in respect of a credit obligation: Renegotiated loans the Group consents to a restructuring of the obligation, Loans whose original terms have been modified are considered resulting in a diminished financial obligation, demonstrated renegotiated loans.
If the renegotiation occurs before a customer by a material forgiveness of debt or postponement of is either past due or impaired and the revised terms are consistent scheduled payments: with those readily available in the market, the account will not be the Group sells a credit obligation at a material credit-related considered past due.
If the renegotiations are on terms that are economic loss: or not consistent with those readily available on the market, this provides objective evidence of impairment and the loan there is observable data indicating that there is a measurable is assessed accordingly.
If the account was past due or decrease in the estimated future cash flows of a group of impaired prior to the renegotiation, the loan will remain past financial assets, although the decrease cannot yet be due until the customer complies with the revised terms for identified with specific individual financial assets.
The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of Derecognition impairment exists individually for financial assets that are Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial cash flows from the financial assets have expired or where the assets that are not individually significant.
Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of If the Group determines that no objective evidence of impairment ownership.
If substantially all the risks and rewards have been exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether neither retained nor transferred and the Group has retained significant or not, it includes the asset in a group of financial control, the assets continue to be recognised to the extent assets with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively of the Groups continuing involvement.
Financial liabilities assesses them for impairment.
Assets that are individually are derecognised when they are extinguished.
assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is Income recognition or continues to be recognised, are not included in a collective For available-for-sale assets and financial assets and liabilities assessment of impairment.
held at amortised cost, interest income and interest expense If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a loan is recognised in the income statement using the effective and receivable or a held-to-maturity asset has been incurred, interest method.
the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss are future cash ows excluding future credit losses that have not included in the income statement in the period in which they been incurred, discounted at the assets original effective www.
com 105 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Derivative contracts are initially recognised at fair value on the Impairment of financial assets continued date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are Assets carried at amortised cost continued subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
Fair values may interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced be obtained from quoted market prices in active markets, through the use of an allowance account and the amount recent market transactions, and valuation techniques, including of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
If a loan and discounted cash ow models and option pricing models, receivable or held-to-maturity asset has a variable interest rate, as appropriate.
Where the initially recognised fair value of a the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the derivative contract is based on a valuation model that uses current effective interest rate determined under the contract.
inputs which are not observable in the market, it follows the As a practical expedient, the Group may measure impairment same initial recognition accounting policy as for other financial on the basis of an instruments fair value using an observable assets and liabilities.
All derivatives are carried as assets when market price.
fair value is positive and as liabilities when fair value is negative.
The calculation of the present value of the estimated future cash Certain derivatives embedded in other financial instruments, ows of a collateralised financial asset reects the cash ows such as the conversion option in a convertible bond held, that may result from foreclosure, less costs for obtaining and are treated as separate derivatives when their economic selling the collateral, whether or not foreclosure is probable.
characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of For the purposes of a collective evaluation of impairment, the host contract and the host contract is not carried at fair financial assets are grouped on the basis of similar credit risk value through profit or loss.
These embedded derivatives are characteristics i. e. on the basis of the Groups grading process measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in which considers asset type, industry, geographic location, the income statement.
collateral type, past-due status and other relevant factors.
The method of recognising the resulting fair value gain or loss These characteristics are relevant to the estimation of future depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging cash ows for groups of such assets being indicative of the instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The debtors ability to pay all amounts due according to the Group designates certain derivatives as either: 1 hedges of the contractual terms of the assets being evaluated.
fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or rm commitments Future cash ows in a group of financial assets that are fair value hedge : or, 2 hedges of highly probable future cash ows attributable to a recognised asset or liability, or a collectively evaluated for impairment are estimated on the forecasted transaction cash ow hedge.
Hedge accounting basis of the historical loss experience for assets with credit is used for derivatives designated in this way provided certain risk characteristics similar to those in the group.
Historical loss criteria are met.
experience is adjusted on the basis of current observable data to reect the effects of current conditions that did not affect the The Group documents, at the inception of the transaction, period on which the historical loss experience is based, and to the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged remove the effects of conditions in the historical period that do items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy not exist currently.
for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on To the extent a loan is irrecoverable, it is written off against the an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in related provision for loan impairment.
Such loans are written off hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes after all the necessary procedures have been completed and the in fair values or cash ows of hedged items.
amount of the loss has been determined.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off decrease the amount of the a Fair value hedge provision for loan impairment in the income statement.
If, Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the an event occurring after the impairment was recognised such hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
as an improvement in the debtors credit rating, the previously If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, recognised impairment loss is reversed by adjusting the the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for allowance account.
The amount of the reversal is recognised which the effective interest method is used is amortised to in the income statement.
profit or loss over the period to maturity.
Available-for-sale assets b Cash ow hedge A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of an equity The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives security below its cost is considered, amongst other indicators that are designated and qualify as cash ow hedges is of impairment, in determining whether an asset is impaired.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment statement in the periods in which the hedged item affects loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income profit or loss.
statement is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a instrument classied as available-for-sale increases and the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains the impairment loss was recognised, the impairment loss is in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is reversed through the income statement.
Impairment losses ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast recognised in the income statement on equity instruments transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain are not reversed through the income statement.
or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Accounting policies continued The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or a financial liability and Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the continued relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that c Net investment hedge discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted the expected life of the financial instrument or, when appropriate, for similarly to cash ow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging a shorter period, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is or financial liability.
When calculating the effective interest rate, recognised in the translation reserve: the gain or loss relating the Group estimates cash ows considering all contractual terms to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the of the financial instrument for example, prepayment options but income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation does not consider future credit losses.
The calculation includes is disposed of.
all fees and points paid or received between parties to the contract that are an integral part of the effective interest rate, Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in Where the estimates of cash flows have been revised, the the income statement.
carrying amount of the financial asset or liability is adjusted to reflect the actual and revised cash flows.
The adjustment Offsetting financial instruments is recognised as interest income or expense in the period in Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount which the revision is made.
reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable If the financial asset has been reclassified, subsequent increases right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention in the estimates of future cash receipts as a result of increased to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the recoverability are recognised as an adjustment to the effective liability simultaneously.
interest rate from the date of the change in estimate.
Sale and repurchase agreements Once a financial asset or a group of similar financial assets has Securities sold subject to repurchase agreements repos remain been written down as a result of an impairment loss, interest on the balance sheet: the counterparty liability is included in deposits by banks, or customer accounts, as appropriate.
income is recognised using the rate of interest used to discount Securities purchased under agreements to resell reverse repos the future cash ows for the purpose of measuring the are recorded as loans and advances to other banks impairment loss.
The difference between sale Fees and commissions and repurchase price is treated as interest and accrued over Fees and commissions are generally recognised on an accrual the life of the agreements using the effective interest method.
basis when the service has been provided.
Loan syndication Securities lent to counterparties are also retained in the financial fees are recognised as revenue when the syndication has been statements.
Securities borrowed are not recognised in the completed and the Group retained no part of the loan package financial statements, unless these are sold to third parties, for itself, or retained a part at the same effective interest rate in which case the purchase and sale are recorded with the as for the other participants.
Portfolio and other management gain or loss included in trading income.
advisory and service fees are recognised based on the applicable service contracts, usually on a time-apportionate basis.
Interest income and expense Hyperinflation Interest income and expense is recognised in the income Where the Group has operations in countries that experience statement using the effective interest method.
hyperinflation, the financial statements are restated for changes in general purchasing power of the local currency.
com 107 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Segmental information The Group is organised on a worldwide basis into two main business segments: Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking.
The types of products and services within these segments are set out in the Financial Review.
The Groups secondary reporting format comprises geographic segments, classified by the location of the customer.
Amounts have been restated as explained in note 53.
Includes capital expenditure in Wholesale Banking of $852 million 2007: $nil million in respect of operating lease assets.
# Amounts have been re-presented to appropriately report certain liabilities previously included within Consumer Banking.
Segmental information continued By geographic segment The Group manages its business segments on a global basis.
The operations are based in nine main geographic areas.
The UK is the home country of the Company.
Includes capital expenditure in Americas, UK and Europe of $852 million 2007: $nil million in respect of operating lease assets.
com 109 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Total assets employed includes intra-group items of $58,662 million and excludes total tax assets of $1,226 million.
Segmental information continued Apart from the entities that have been acquired in the last two In 2008, corporate items not allocated to businesses relate to years, Group central expenses have been distributed between profits on disposal of the Indian asset management business, segments in proportion to their direct costs, and the benefit of the gain on repurchase of subordinated liabilities, impairment of the Groups capital has been distributed between segments in associates and other strategic investments, and the Groups proportion to their average risk weighted assets.
In the year in share of profits from associates.
which an acquisition is made the Group does not charge or Assets held at the centre have been distributed between allocate the benefit of the Groups capital.
The distribution geographic segments in proportion to their total assets employed.
of central expenses is phased in over two years, based on an estimate of central management costs associated with Capital expenditure comprises additions to property and equipment the acquisition.
note 27 and software related intangibles note 26 including any post-acquisition additions made by the acquired entities.
Interest income 2008 2007 $million $million Balances at central banks 32 39 Treasury bills 835 884 Loans and advances to banks 1,382 1,975 Loans and advances to customers 11,397 10,746 Listed debt securities 1,147 1,081 Unlisted debt securities 1,545 1,385 Accrued on impaired assets discount unwind 40 66 16,378 16,176 Total interest income from financial instruments held at amortised cost in 2008 is $10,124 million 2007: $11,070 million and from financial instruments held as available-for-sale is $2,820 million 2007: $2,390 million.
Interest expense 2008 2007 $million $million Deposits by banks 1,268 1,497 Customer accounts: Interest bearing current accounts and savings deposits 1,009 1,508 Time deposits 4,328 4,552 Debt securities in issue 1,338 1,543 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds: Wholly repayable within five years 389 245 Other 659 566 8,991 9,911 Total interest expense on financial instruments held at amortised cost in 2008 is $7,405 million 2007: $8,347 million.
Fees and commissions 2008 2007 $million $million Fee income: Arising from financial instruments that are not fair valued through profit or loss 1,475 1,160 Arising from trust and other fiduciary activities 113 302 Other 1,832 1,727 3,420 3,189 Fee expense: Arising from financial instruments that are not fair valued through profit or loss 261 285 Arising from trust and other fiduciary activities 21 26 Other 197 217 479 528 www.
com 111 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 6.
Net trading income 2008 2007 $million $million Gains less losses on instruments held for trading: Foreign currency 2,596 862 Trading securities 238 102 Interest rate derivatives 402 257 Credit and other derivatives 30 39 Gains less losses from fair value hedged items and hedging instruments 6 3 Gains less losses on instruments designated at fair value: Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 150 44 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 118 37 Derivatives managed with financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss 35 3 2,405 1,261 7.
Other operating income 2008 2007 $million $million Other operating income includes: Gains less losses on available-for-sale financial assets: On disposal 322 339 Writedowns on asset backed securities 49 87 Gains less losses on disposal of loan and receivable financial assets 3 Dividend income 203 279 Gains arising on repurchase of subordinated liabilities 384 Gains arising on assets fair valued at acquisition 80 98 Rental income from operating lease assets 67 5 Recognition of profit on Visa shares 17 107 Foreign exchange gain on repatriation of branch capital 109 Profit on sale of businesses 146 18 Profit on sale of businesses in 2008 represents the gain on sale of the Groups Indian asset management business.
Gains arising on assets fair valued at acquisition primarily relate to recoveries of fair value adjustments on loans and advances.
Operating expenses 2008 2007 $million $million Staff costs: Wages and salaries 3,793 2,970 Social security costs 93 67 Other pension costs note 37 172 213 Other staff costs 679 699 4,737 3,949 Premises and equipment expenses: Rental of premises 337 259 Other premises and equipment costs 376 307 Rental of computers and equipment 25 26 738 592 General administrative expenses 1,711 1,329 Wages and salaries include share based payments see note 42.
The Company employed nil staff at 31 December 2008 2007: nil and it incurred costs of $3 million 2007: $7 million.
Directors emoluments Details of directors pay and benefits and interests in shares are disclosed in the directors remuneration report on pages 89 to 92.
Transactions with directors, officers and other related parties are disclosed in note 56.
Operating expenses continued Auditors remuneration Auditors remuneration in relation to the Group statutory audit amounts to $5.0 million 2007: $6.0 million.
The following fees were payable by the Group to their principal auditor, KPMG Audit Plc and its associates together KPMG : 2008 2007 $million $million Audit fees for the Group statutory audit: Fees relating to the current year 5.0 5.4 Fees relating to prior year 0.6 Fees payable to KPMG for other services provided to the Group: Audit of Standard Chartered PLC subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation Fees relating to the current year 9.9 8.1 Fees relating to prior year 0.8 Other services pursuant to legislation 2.8 3.0 Tax services 1.3 0.4 Services relating to information technology 0.1 0.1 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 1.4 0.8 All other services 3.3 0.3 Total fees payable 24.6 18.7 In 2007, $1.6 million in respect of audit fees for the Group statutory audit was included in fees payable for the audit of Standard Chartered PLC subsidiaries which has now been appropriately allocated.
The following is a description of the type of services included within the categories listed above: Audit fees are in respect of fees payable to KPMG Audit Plc for the statutory audit of the consolidated financial statements of the Group and the separate financial statements of Standard Chartered PLC.
It excludes amounts payable for the audit of Standard Chartered PLCs subsidiaries and amounts payable to KPMG Audit Plcs associates.
These amounts have been included in Fees payable to KPMG for other services provided to the Group.
Other services pursuant to legislation include services for assurance and other services that are in relation to statutory and regulatory filings, including comfort letters and interim reviews.
Tax services include tax compliance services and tax advisory services.
Services relating to information technology include advice on IT security and business continuity, and performing agreed upon IT testing procedures.
Services related to corporate finance transactions include fees payable to KPMG for transaction related work irrespective of whether the Group is vendor or purchaser, such as acquisition due diligence and long-form reports.
All other services include other assurance and advisory services such as translation services, ad-hoc accounting advice, reporting accountants work on capital raising and review of financial models.
Expenses incurred during the provision of services and which have been reimbursed by the Group are included within auditors remuneration.
In addition to the above, KPMG estimate they have been paid fees of $0.3 million 2007: $0.3 million by parties other than the Group but where the Group is connected with the contracting party and therefore may be involved in appointing KPMG.
These fees arise from services such as the audit of the Groups pension schemes.
Fees payable to KPMG for non-audit services for Standard Chartered PLC are not separately disclosed because such fees are disclosed on a consolidated basis for the Group.
Depreciation and amortisation 2008 2007 $million $million Premises 98 78 Equipment 152 104 Intangibles: Software 94 86 Acquired on business combinations 81 77 425 345 www.
com 113 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 10.
Other impairment 2008 2007 $million $million Intangible assets 17 Impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets 417 40 Impairment of investment in associates 46 Other 6 469 57 Impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets includes $315 million 2007: $nil million in relation to impairment of equity investments, $41 million 2007: $35 million impairment on asset backed securities, and $61 million 2007: $5 million on other debt securities.
In 2007, impairment of intangible assets related to the write-off of a customer relationship asset relating to Whistlejacket, a structured investment vehicle previously sponsored by the Group.
Rights issue option On 26 November 2008, the Company invited shareholders to created the legal obligation on the Company and the rights participate in a 30 for 91 rights issue of 470,014,830 shares price, with a corresponding charge to equity.
The Companys functional currency is The option was fair valued through the income statement denominated in US dollars, whilst the capital raised through from this date until the rights issue closed for registration on the rights issue was sterling based.
The Company was not 17 December 2008.
This generated a gain of $233 million.
therefore able to assert that it was delivering a fixed number of shares for a fixed amount of US dollar proceeds.
As such, The net liability on settlement was credited to equity following under IAS 32, the rights issue is an option, which is classified its realisation by issuing shares of the Company.
As a result, as a financial liability and not as a component of equity.
there is no overall impact on the Group or Companys shareholders equity or the Companys distributable reserves.
As the option was out-of-the-money at inception, an initial liability was established based on the difference between the share price when the documents were posted as this 12.
Taxation Analysis of taxation charge in the year: 2008 2007 $million $million The charge for taxation based upon the profits for the year comprises: Current tax: United Kingdom corporation tax at 28.5% 2007: 30% : Current tax on income for the year 774 385 Adjustments in respect of prior periods including double taxation relief 135 18 Double taxation relief 602 385 Foreign tax: Current tax on income for the year 1,221 1,258 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 117 13 1,141 1,253 Deferred tax: Origination reversal of temporary differences 89 167 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 60 40 149 207 Tax on profits on ordinary activities 1,290 1,046 Effective tax rate 26.9% 25.9% Overseas taxation includes taxation on Hong Kong profits of $156 million 2007: $195 million provided at a rate of 16.5 per cent 2007: 17.5 per cent on the profits assessable in Hong Kong.
With effect from 1 April 2008, the United Kingdom corporation tax rate was reduced from 30 per cent to 28 per cent.
This gives a blended 28.5 per cent tax rate for the full year.
Taxation continued The taxation charge for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom, 28.5 per cent.
The differences are explained below: 2008 2007 $million $million Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 4,801 4,035 Tax at 28.5% 2007: 30% 1,368 1,211 Effects of: Tax free income 117 203 Lower tax rates on overseas earnings 130 176 Higher tax rates on overseas earnings 207 222 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods 192 45 Other items 154 37 Tax on profits on ordinary activities 1,290 1,046 Tax recognised directly in equity: 2008 2007 $million $million Current tax: Share based payments 16 38 Available-for-sale assets 97 Rights issue option 66 179 38 Deferred tax: Available-for-sale assets 7 38 Cash flow hedges 54 7 Retirement benefit obligations 60 71 Share based payments 46 61 Other items 1 75 164 Total tax credit charge recognised in equity 254 126 13.
Dividends 2008 2007 Post-rights Pre-rights Post-rights Pre-rights cents cents cents cents Ordinary equity shares per share per share $million per share per share $million Final dividend declared and paid during the period 42.27 56.23 793 37.74 50.21 695 Interim dividend declared and paid during the period 19.30 25.67 364 17.38 23.12 324 61.57 81.90 1,157 55.12 73.33 1,019 On a post-rights basis, the dividend has been adjusted by the ratio of shares outstanding immediately before the rights issue to the number of shares outstanding immediately following the rights issue.
The total dividend for 2007 on a post-rights basis is 59.65 cents per share 2006: 53.40 cents per share.
2008 2007 Preference shares $million $million 3 Non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares: 7 per cent preference shares of 1 each 15 15 8 1 8 4 per cent preference shares of 1 each 16 16 Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares: 8.125 per cent preference shares of $5 each 32 7.014 per cent preference shares of $5 each 62 6.409 per cent preference shares of $5 each 48 28 Dividends on these preference shares are treated as interest expense and accrued accordingly.
Dividends on ordinary equity and those preference shares to shareholders on the UK register of members at the close of classified as equity are recorded in the period in which they business in the UK 10.00 pm UK time on 13 March 2009, and are declared and, in respect of the final dividend, have been to shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register of members approved by the shareholders.
Accordingly, the final ordinary at the opening of business in Hong Kong 9:00 am Hong Kong equity share dividends set out above relate to the respective time on 13 March 2009.
It is intended that shareholders will be prior years.
The 2008 final ordinary equity share dividend of able to elect to receive shares credited as fully paid instead of all 42.32 cents per share $801 million will be paid in either or part of the final cash dividend.
sterling, Hong Kong dollars or US dollars on 15 May 2009 www.
com 115 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 14.
Earnings per ordinary share 2008 2007 Weighted Weighted average Per average Per number of share number of share Profit shares amount Profit shares amount $million 000 cents $million 000 cents Basic earnings per ordinary share 2,813 1,398,747 201.1 Pre-rights issue bonus earnings per ordinary share 3,298 1,418,117 232.6 Impact of rights issue bonus 211,516 199,237 Post-rights issue bonus basic earnings per ordinary share 3,298 1,629,633 202.4 2,813 1,597,984 176.0 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: Options 8,622 17,048 Diluted earnings per ordinary share 3,298 1,638,255 201.3 2,813 1,615,032 174.2 On 24 November 2008 the Company announced the issue of 470,014,830 New Ordinary shares by way of rights to qualifying shareholders at 390 pence per share.
The issue was on the basis of 30 shares for every 91 held on 24 November 2008.
As required by IAS 33 Earnings per share the impact of the bonus element included within the rights issue has been included within the calculations of the basic and diluted earnings per share for the year and prior periods have been re-presented on this basis.
The profit amounts represent the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and is therefore after the declaration of dividends payable to the holders of the non-cumulative redeemable preference shares see note 13.
The impact of anti-dilutive options has been excluded from this amount as required by IAS 33 Earnings Per Share.
There were no ordinary shares issued after the balance sheet date that would have significantly affected the number of ordinary shares used in the above calculations had they been issued prior to the end of the balance sheet period.
Normalised earnings per ordinary share The Group measures earnings per share on a normalised basis.
This differs from earnings defined in IAS 33 Earnings per share.
The table below provides a reconciliation.
2008 2007 $million $million Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 3,298 2,813 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 81 77 Impairment of customer relationship intangible 17 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 10 1 Pre-incorporation costs in China 8 Gains arising on repurchase of subordinated liabilities 384 Foreign exchange gain on repatriation of branch capital 109 Profit on sale of businesses 146 18 Day one loss on strategic investment 3 Impairment of associates and other strategic investments 77 Rights issue option note 11 233 Tax on normalised items 164 23 Normalised earnings 2,850 2,764 Normalised basic earnings per ordinary share cents 174.9 173.0 Normalised diluted earnings per ordinary share cents 174.0 171.1 The profit amounts represent the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and is therefore after the declaration of dividends payable to the holders of the non-cumulative redeemable preference shares see note 13.
As required by IAS 33 Earnings per share the impact of the bonus element included within the rights issue has been included within the calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share for the year and prior periods have been re-presented on this basis.
Financial instruments classification summary Financial instruments are classified between four categories: The Groups classification of its principal financial assets and held at fair value through profit or loss comprising trading liabilities excluding derivatives which are classified as trading and designated, available-for-sale, held-to-maturity, loans and and are disclosed in note 17 is summarised in the table receivables, and for financial liabilities, amortised cost.
Cash and balances at central banks of $24,161 million of the balance sheet combines financial instruments that are 2007: $10,175 million is deemed to be held at amortised cost.
held at their fair value, and subdivided between those assets and liabilities held for trading purposes and those that the Group has elected to hold at fair value.
com 117 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Financial instruments classification summary continued Reclassification of financial assets The Group has reclassified certain financial assets classified as markets, particularly from the beginning of 2008, which held for trading into the available-for-sale AFS category as significantly impacted liquidity in certain markets.
The these were no longer considered to be held for the purpose of Group also reclassified certain eligible financial assets from selling or repurchasing in the near term.
At the time of transfer, trading and available-for-sale categories to loans and receivables the Group identified the rare circumstances permitting such a as set out below.
In total, assets with a notional value of transfer as the impact of the ongoing credit crisis in financial $8.3 billion were reclassified.
The following table provides details of the assets reclassified in 2008 as at and up to the date of reclassification: Fair value gain or loss from 1 January 2008 to the Fair value loss reclassification date to 31 December 2007 recognised within: recognised within: Estimated Carrying Effective amounts of amount AFS AFS interest expected reclassified Income reserve Income reserve rate cash flows For assets reclassified: $million $million $million $million $million % $million From trading to AFS asset backed securities 248 23 7 8.2 277 other financial assets 2,558 5 6 5.9 2,799 2,806 18 13 3,076 From trading to loans and receivables asset backed securities 1,009 61 30 5.7 1,017 other financial assets 1,821 117 1 4.9 2,040 2,830 178 31 3,057 From AFS to loan and receivables asset backed securities 2,105 231 86 5.5 2,307 7,741 196 231 44 86 8,440 The reclassified assets were included in the following lines on the Groups balance sheet: From availableFrom trading From trading for-sale to availableto loans and to loans and for-sale receivables receivables Total $million $million $million $million Debt securities and treasury bills 2,796 2,484 2,105 7,385 Loans to banks 91 91 Loans and advances to customers 10 255 265 2,806 2,830 2,105 7,741 The following table provides details of the reclassified assets from the date of reclassification until 31 December 2008: If assets had not been reclassified, fair value loss from the date of reclassification to 31 December 2008 which would have been recognised within Carrying Income amount at Fair value at recognised in 31 December 31 December income 2008 2008 Income AFS reserve statement For assets reclassified: $million $million $million $million $million From trading to AFS 2,485 2,485 83 12 From trading to loans and receivables 2,754 2,456 298 15 From AFS to loans and receivables 2,095 1,685 410 11 7,334 6,626 381 410 38 Of which asset backed securities: reclassified to available-for-sale 171 171 66 2 reclassified to loans and receivables 3,044 2,532 102 410 15 , the loss is recognised within the available-for-sale reserve.
Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss For certain loans and advances and debt securities with fixed The maximum exposure to credit risk for loans designated at fair rates of interest, interest rate swaps have been acquired with value through profit or loss was $243 million 2007: $738 million.
the intention of significantly reducing interest rate risk.
Derivatives The net fair value loss on loans and advances to customers are recorded at fair value whereas loans and advances are designated at fair value through profit or loss was $0.1 million usually recorded at amortised cost.
To significantly reduce the 2007: $1.0 million.
Of this, $3 million 2007: $nil million accounting mismatch between fair value and amortised cost, relates to changes in credit risk.
The cumulative fair value these loans and advances and debt securities have been movement relating to changes in credit risk was $3.4 million designated at fair value through profit or loss.
ensures the criteria under IAS 39 are met by matching the principal terms of interest rate swaps to the corresponding The changes in fair value attributable to credit risk has been loans and debt securities.
determined by comparing fair value movements in risk-free bonds with similar maturities to the changes in fair value of The changes in fair value of both the underlying loans and loans designated at fair value through profit or loss.
advances, and debt securities, and interest rate swaps are monitored in a similar manner to trading book portfolios.
2008 2007 Designated Designated at at fair value fair value through through Trading profit or loss Total Trading profit or loss Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances to banks 1,351 12 1,363 2,314 2,314 Loans and advances to customers 4,103 231 4,334 1,978 738 2,716 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 2,502 205 2,707 2,942 453 3,395 Debt securities 6,193 203 6,396 13,829 334 14,163 Equity shares 165 460 625 108 262 370 14,314 1,111 15,425 21,171 1,787 22,958 Debt securities 2008 2007 $million $million Issued by public bodies: Government securities 4,346 5,344 Other public sector securities 17 30 4,363 5,374 Issued by banks: Certificates of deposit 33 479 Other debt securities 798 2,672 831 3,151 Issued by corporate entities and other issuers: Other debt securities 1,202 5,638 Total debt securities 6,396 14,163 Of which: Listed on a recognised UK exchange 14 536 Listed elsewhere 2,216 5,641 Unlisted 4,166 7,986 6,396 14,163 Equity shares Listed elsewhere 197 3 Unlisted 428 367 Total equity shares 625 370 www.
com 119 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 16.
Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss continued For certain loans and advances designated at fair value through used at initial recognition, is amortised to the income statement profit or loss, the difference arising between the fair value at initial until the inputs become observable or the transaction matures recognition and the amount that would have arisen had the or is terminated.
The table below sets out a reconciliation of valuation techniques used for subsequent measurement been amounts deferred: 2008 2007 $million $million At 1 January 9 2 Additional amount deferred 2 10 Recognised in income 3 3 At 31 December 8 9 Changing one or more of the assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives would not significantly change the fair value.
Derivative financial instruments Derivatives are financial instruments that derive their value The Group and Company limits its exposure to credit losses in in response to changes in interest rates, financial instrument the event of default by entering into master netting agreements prices, commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, credit risk with certain market counterparties.
As required by IAS 32, and indices.
The types of derivatives used by the Group and exposures are not presented net in these accounts as in the Company are set out below.
ordinary course of business they are not intended to be settled net.
Details of the amounts available for offset can be found in All derivatives are classified as trading and recognised and note 51, under maximum exposure to credit risk.
subsequently measured at fair value, with all revaluation gains recognised in profit and loss except where cash flow hedging The Derivatives and Hedging sections of the Risk review has been achieved, in which case the effective portion of on page 61 explain the Groups and the Companys risk changes in fair value go through reserves.
These tables analyse the notional principal amounts and the positive and negative fair values of the Groups and Companys derivative financial instruments.
Notional principal amounts are the amount of principal underlying the contract at the reporting date.
Derivative financial instruments continued Company 2008 2007 Notional Notional principal principal amounts Assets Liabilities amounts Assets Liabilities Total derivatives $million $million $million $million $million $million Foreign exchange derivative contracts: Currency swaps 1,044 26 Total derivatives 1,044 26 The Group and Company use derivatives primarily to mitigate under IAS 39 have been met.
The tables below list the interest rate and foreign exchange risk.
Hedge accounting is types of derivatives that the Group and Company holds applied to derivatives and hedged items when the criteria for hedge accounting.
Group 2008 2007 Notional Notional principal principal amounts Assets Liabilities amounts Assets Liabilities Derivatives held for hedging $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivatives designated as fair value hedges: Swaps 18,376 1,393 251 13,392 352 161 18,376 1,393 251 13,392 352 161 Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges: Swaps 4,514 92 13 5,120 35 13 Forward foreign exchange contracts 1,015 6 210 1,414 37 19 5,529 98 223 6,534 72 32 Derivatives designated as net investment hedges: Forward foreign exchange contracts 600 89 81 1 Total derivatives held for hedging 24,505 1,491 563 20,007 425 193 Company 2008 2007 Notional Notional principal principal amounts Assets Liabilities amounts Assets Liabilities Derivatives held for hedging $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivatives designated as fair value hedges: Currency swaps 1,044 26 Total derivatives held for hedging 1,044 26 Fair value hedges The Group uses interest rate swaps to manage fixed rates of interest.
For the Company losses arising on fair value hedging instruments The swaps exchange fixed rates for floating rates on funding to were $26 million compared to gains arising on the hedged items match floating rates received on assets, or exchange fixed rates on of $26 million.
There was no fair value hedging in the Company assets to match the floating rates paid on funding.
The Company in 2007. uses currency swaps to manage foreign exchange exposures.
For Cash flow hedges qualifying hedges, the fair value changes of the derivative are The Group uses interest rate swaps to manage the variability in substantially matched by corresponding fair value changes of the future cash flows on assets and liabilities that have floating rates hedged item, both of which are recognised in profit and loss.
of interest by exchanging the floating rates for fixed rates.
It also In respect of fair value hedges, gains arising on the hedging uses foreign exchange contracts to manage the variability in instruments during the year were $1,142 million 2007: gains future exchange rates on its assets and liabilities and costs in of $49 million compared to losses arising on the hedged foreign currencies.
Gains and losses arising on the effective items of $1,138 million 2007: losses of $52 million.
portion of the hedges are deferred in equity until the variability on the cash flow affects profit and loss, at which time the gains or losses are transferred to profit and loss.
com 121 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 17.
Derivative financial instruments continued The Group has hedged the following cash flows which are expected to impact the income statement in the following periods: 2008 Less than One to Two to Three to Four to Over one year two years three years four years five years five years Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Forecast receivable cash flows 716 335 268 203 154 144 1,820 Forecast payable cash flows 1,439 586 208 158 121 118 2,630 723 251 60 45 33 26 810 2007 Less than One to Two to Three to Four to Over one year two years three years four years five years five years Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Forecast receivable cash flows 315 249 165 142 80 59 1,010 Forecast payable cash flows 941 873 148 111 81 58 2,212 626 624 17 31 1 1 1,202 During the year, $4 million 2007: $nil million was recognised in Net investment hedges the income statement in respect of ineffectiveness arising on The Group uses foreign exchange contracts to manage the cash flow hedges.
variability in future exchange rates on its net investments in foreign currencies.
Gains and losses arising on the effective During the year $18 million 2007: $58 million was removed portion of the hedges are deferred in equity until the net from the cash flow hedging reserve and included in profit and investment is disposed of.
During the year, $nil million 2007: loss, of which, $2 million 2007: $58 million was recognised within $nil million was recognised in the Income statement in respect operating costs and the remaining $16 million 2007: $nil million of ineffectiveness arising on net investment hedges.
Loans and advances to banks 2008 2007 $million $million Loans and advances to banks 47,969 37,682 Individual impairment provision note 21 17 2 Portfolio impairment provision note 21 6 1 47,946 37,679 Of which: loans and advances held at fair value through profit or loss note 16 1,363 2,314 46,583 35,365 19.
Loans and advances to customers 2008 2007 $million $million Loans and advances to customers 180,470 158,788 Individual impairment provision note 21 1,307 1,271 Portfolio impairment provision note 21 651 535 178,512 156,982 Of which: loans and advances held at fair value through profit or loss note 16 4,334 2,716 174,178 154,266 The Group has transferred to third parties by way of continues to hold the underlying assets referenced in the securitisation the rights to any collections of principal and synthetic credit default swaps.
interest on customer loan assets with a face value of $4,192 The Groups exposure to credit risk is concentrated in Hong Kong, million 2007: $5,742 million.
The Group continues to be Korea, Singapore, Other Asia Pacific region and Americas, UK & exposed to related credit and foreign exchange risk on these Europe.
The Group is affected by the general economic conditions assets.
The Group continues to recognise these assets in in the territories in which it operates.
The Group sets limits on addition to the proceeds and related liability of $4,583 million the exposure to any counterparty and credit risk is spread over 2007: $5,155 million arising from the securitisations.
a variety of different personal and commercial customers.
The The Group has entered into synthetic credit default swaps for Group has outstanding residential mortgage loans to Korea portfolio management purposes, referencing loan assets with a residents of $17.1 billion 2007: $22.6 billion and Hong Kong notional value of $15.7 billion 2007: $24.4 billion.
The Group residents of $13.0 billion 2007: $11.8 billion.
Assets leased to customers Finance leases and instalment credit 2008 2007 $million $million Finance leases 468 506 Instalment credit agreements 784 1,127 1,252 1,633 The above assets are included within loans and advances to customers.
The cost of assets acquired during the year for leasing to customers under finance leases and instalment credit agreements amounted to $154 million 2007: $140 million.
2008 2007 $million $million Minimum lease receivables under finance leases falling due: Within one year 47 61 Later than one year and less than five years 354 390 After five years 125 133 526 584 Interest income relating to future periods 58 78 Present value of finance lease receivables 468 506 Of which: Falls due within one year 46 50 Falls due later than one year and less than five years 321 354 Falls due after five years 101 102 Operating lease assets Assets leased to customers under operating leases consist of commercial aircraft which are included within property, plant and equipment in note 27.
At 31 December 2008 these assets had a net book value of $1,029 million 2007: $200 million.
2008 2007 $million $million Minimum lease receivables under operating leases falling due: Within one year 111 10 Later than one year and less than five years 451 21 After five years 297 5 859 36 www.
com 123 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 21.
Impairment provisions on loans and advances 2008 2007 $million $million At 1 January 1,809 2,225 Exchange translation differences 179 28 Acquisitions 109 Amounts written off 1,119 1,183 Recoveries of acquisition fair values 78 98 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 180 139 Discount unwind 40 66 Other 13 10 New provisions 1,796 1,352 Recoveries provisions no longer required 510 598 Net charge against profit 1,286 754 Provisions held at 31 December 1,981 1,809 The following table reconciles the charge for impairment provisions on loans and advances to the total impairment charge and other credit commitments: 2008 2007 $million $million Net charge release against profit on loans and advances: Individual impairment charge 1,168 769 Portfolio impairment charge release 118 15 1,286 754 Provisions releases related to credit commitments 27 3 Impairment charges relating to debt securities classified as loans 8 10 Total impairment charge and other credit risk provisions 1,321 761 The following table shows impairment provisions on loans and advances by each principal category of borrowers business or industry: 2008 2007 $million $million Loans to individuals Mortgages 88 99 Other 191 200 Small and medium enterprises 263 356 Consumer Banking 542 655 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 39 33 Construction 18 10 Commerce 134 152 Electricity, gas and water 28 25 Financing, insurance and business services 31 27 Mining and quarrying 12 Manufacturing 458 290 Commercial real estate 21 23 Transport, storage and communication 24 22 Other 12 22 Wholesale Banking 765 616 Individual impairment provision against loans and advances to customers note 19 1,307 1,271 Individual impairment provision against loans and advances to banks note 18 17 2 Portfolio impairment provision note 18, 19 657 536 Total impairment provisions on loans and advances 1,981 1,809 Of which: Individual impairment provisions 1,324 1,273 Portfolio impairment provisions 657 536 Provisions held at the end of the year 1,981 1,809 124 Standard Chartered 2008 22.
Individually impaired loans and advances 2008 2007 Consumer Wholesale Consumer Wholesale Banking Banking Total Banking Banking Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Individual impaired loans 1,062 1,611 2,673 1,172 990 2,162 Individual impairment provisions 543 781 1,324 655 618 1,273 Net impaired loans 519 830 1,349 517 372 889 Estimated fair value of collateral held: 631 205 836 918 203 1,121 Net impaired loans within Wholesale Banking includes impaired loans primarily relates to property and equipment.
individually impaired loans to banks of $35 million 2007: $10 Where the fair value of collateral held exceeds the outstanding million and individual impairment provisions on these loans of loan, any excess is paid back to the customers and is not $17 million 2007: $2 million.
Collateral held as security against available for offset against other loans.
Investment securities Group Company  and Loans and maturity for-sale receivables Total receivables $million $million $million $million $million Treasury and other eligible bills 16,713 16,713 Debt securities 37 43,543 7,456 51,036 925 Equity shares 1,593 1,593 At 31 December 2008 37 61,849 7,456 69,342 925 Treasury and other eligible bills 11,667 11,667 Debt securities 100 38,098 2,719 40,917 Equity shares 2,690 2,690 At 31 December 2007 100 52,455 2,719 55,274 2008 Debt securities  and Equity Treasury maturity for-sale receivables shares bills Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Issued by public bodies: Government securities 37 17,849 389 Other public sector securities 1,864 37 19,713 389 Issued by banks: Certificates of deposit 6,771 1,969 Other debt securities 13,597 735 20,368 2,704 Issued by corporate entities and other issuers: Other debt securities 3,462 4,363 Total debt securities 37 43,543 7,456 Listed on a recognised UK exchange 4,096 1,217 35 5,348 Listed elsewhere 35 15,479 2,750 586 5,711 24,561 Unlisted 2 23,968 3,489 972 11,002 39,433 37 43,543 7,456 1,593 16,713 69,342 Market value of listed securities 35 19,575 3,903 621 5,711 29,845 www.
com 125 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Investment securities continued 2007 Debt securities  and Equity Treasury maturity for-sale receivables shares bills Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Issued by public bodies: Government securities 100 12,658 Other public sector securities 1,008 100 13,666 Issued by banks: Certificates of deposit 6,248 2,175 Other debt securities 12,904 18 19,152 2,193 Issued by corporate entities and other issuers: Other debt securities 5,280 526 Total debt securities 100 38,098 2,719 Listed on a recognised UK exchange 3,663 58 3,721 Listed elsewhere 77 16,060 1,842 6,346 24,325 Unlisted 23 18,375 2,719 790 5,321 27,228 100 38,098 2,719 2,690 11,667 55,274 Market value of listed securities 75 19,723 1,900 6,346 28,044 Equity shares largely comprise investments in corporates.
Loans and receivables debt securities held by the Company of $925 million 2007: $nil million comprises corporate securities issued by Standard Chartered Bank with a market value of $925 million 2007: $nil million.
The change in the carrying amount of investment securities comprised: 2008 2007 Debt Equity Treasury Debt Equity Treasury securities shares bills Total securities shares bills Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million At 1 January 40,917 2,690 11,667 55,274 35,497 1,478 12,522 49,497 Exchange translation differences 3,318 97 2,171 5,586 846 20 171 1,037 Acquisitions 2,572 4 382 2,958 Additions 71,073 933 37,932 109,938 53,574 1,248 23,470 78,292 Reclassifications 5,237 69 43 5,211 Disposal on sale of business 9 9 Maturities and disposals 65,426 854 31,476 97,756 48,850 970 24,637 74,457 Provisions 109 315 1 425 45 3 2 50 Changes in fair value including the effect of fair value hedging 106 687 140 653 205 920 19 696 Amortisation of discounts and premiums 196 3 197 390 100 3 162 259 At 31 December 51,036 1,593 16,713 69,342 40,917 2,690 11,667 55,274 Reclassifications for equity shares relates to a security held by the Groups private equity business which became eligible to be designated at fair value through profit or loss as permitted by IAS 28.
The remainder of the reclassifications are in respect of securities reclassified as disclosed in note 15.
Treasury bills and other eligible bills include $1,455 million 2007: At 31 December 2008, unamortised premiums on debt securities $492 million of bills sold subject to sale and repurchase transactions.
held for investment purposes amounted to $271 million 2007: Debt securities include $1,855 million 2007: $1,958 million of $46 million and unamortised discounts amounted to $743 million securities sold subject to sale and repurchase transactions.
The Group has taken advantage of the Term Auction Facility Income from listed equity shares amounted to $20 million 2007: TAF introduced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, by $9 million and income from unlisted equity shares amounted to borrowing $2,850 million.
Under the TAF, no single security is $183 million 2007: $270 million.
earmarked as collateral for the borrowing.
The value of securities that is considered to be encumbered in relation to this borrowing is $3,197 million and the borrowing is included as a sale and repurchase transaction within customer accounts.
Investment securities continued The change in impairment provisions is as follows: 2008 2007 Debt Equity Treasury Debt Equity Treasury securities shares bills Total securities shares bills Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million At 1 January 54 22 2 78 9 23 10 42 Exchange translation differences 4 2 6 1 10 9 Amounts written off 1 26 27 5 5 New provisions 109 315 1 425 45 3 2 50 At 31 December 158 311 1 470 54 22 2 78 Of the new provisions raised of $425 million 2007: $50 million, $8 million 2007: $10 million relates to debt securities classified as loans and receivables and is included with impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit provisions, with the balance reported within Other Impairment.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates 2008 2007 Investment in subsidiary undertakings $million $million At 1 January 10,406 9,656 Additions 750 At 31 December 10,406 10,406 At 31 December 2008, the principal subsidiary undertakings, all indirectly held and principally engaged in the business of banking and provision of other financial services, were as follows: Group interest in ordinary share capital Country and place of incorporation or registration Main areas of operation % Standard Chartered Bank, England and Wales United Kingdom, Middle East, South Asia, 100 Asia Pacific, Americas and, through Group companies, Africa Standard Chartered First Bank Korea Limited, Korea Korea 100 Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia Berhad, Malaysia Malaysia 100 Standard Chartered Bank Pakistan Limited, Pakistan Pakistan 98.99 Standard Chartered Bank Taiwan Limited, Taiwan Taiwan 100 Standard Chartered Bank Hong Kong Limited, Hong Kong Hong Kong 100 Standard Chartered Bank China Limited, China China 100 Standard Chartered Bank Thai Public Company Limited, Thailand Thailand 99.97 Standard Chartered Receivables UK Limited, England and Wales United Kingdom 100 Standard Chartered Financial Investments Limited, England and Wales United Kingdom 100 Standard Chartered Debt Trading Limited, England and Wales Hong Kong 100 Standard Chartered Private Equity Limited, Hong Kong Hong Kong 100 Details of all Group companies will be filed with the next annual return of the Company.
Joint ventures The Group has a 44.51 per cent interest through a joint venture The Group proportionately consolidates its share of the assets, company which holds a majority investment in PT Bank Permata liabilities, income and expense of these joint ventures on a line Tbk Permata, in Indonesia.
On 11 January 2008 the Group acquired a 49 per cent interest Contingent liabilities set out in note 47, include $59 million in UTI Securities Limited, subsequently renamed Standard 2007: $72 million relating to these joint venture arrangements.
Chartered STCI Capital Markets STCI, for $38 million generating These mainly comprise banking guarantees and irrevocable goodwill of $35 million.
On 12 December 2008 the Group letters of credit.
acquired a further 25.9 per cent for $20 million generating There are no capital commitments related to the Groups additional goodwill of $17 million.
investments in these joint ventures.
STCI is a retail brokerage and its main areas of operation are in Related party transactions are disclosed in note 56.
Although the Groups investment in STCI is greater than 50 per cent of the share capital, the Group contractually shares control of the strategic financial and operating policies of STCI and accordingly it is accounted for as a joint venture.
com 127 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 24.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates continued The following amounts have been included in the consolidated accounts of the Group: 2008 2007 $million $million Current assets 863 663 Long-term assets 1,467 1,332 Total assets 2,330 1,995 Current liabilities 1,722 1,484 Long-term liabilities 233 140 Total liabilities 1,955 1,624 Net assets 375 371 Income 159 161 Expenses 111 111 Impairment 6 17 Operating profit 42 33 Tax 16 2 Share of post tax result from joint venture 26 35 Long-term assets are primarily loans to customers and current liabilities are primarily customer deposits based on contractual maturities.
Interests in associates 2008 2007 $million $million At 1 January 269 218 Additions 293 51 Transfer to subsidiary 5 Impairment 46 At 31 December 511 269 Profit for the year 1 1 Total assets 2,614 944 Total liabilities 2,372 774 Net assets 242 170 As at 31 December 2008 the Group has currently exercisable options over a further 40.0 per cent of the share capital of First Africa Holdings Limited, a leveraged finance advisory boutique company in which it currently holds 25 per cent.
This gives the Group control over the management and financial and operating policies of the company, and accordingly the company is now a subsidiary undertaking not an associate.
The Groups principal associates are: Group interest in ordinary Main areas share capital Associate of operation % China Bohai Bank China 19.9 Fleming Family & Partners Asia 20.0 MCashback Limited UK 30.0 Merchant Solutions Limited Hong Kong 44.0 Asia Commercial Bank Vietnam 15.0 mReferral Corporation Limited Hong Kong 33.0 On 2 July 2008 the Group acquired a further 6.16 per cent companies and their financial and operating policies.
Significant equity stake in Asia Commercial Bank ACB including influence is evidenced largely through the inter-change of convertible bonds for $211 million to bring the total shareholding management personnel and the provision of expertise.
to 15 per cent and the total cost of investment to $298 million.
The Group acquired a 33 per cent interest in mReferral ACBs main area of operation is in Vietnam.
The fair value of Corporation Limited for $4 million as part of its acquisition the investment in ACB at 31 December 2008 is $211 million.
of American Express Bank Limited in 2008. mReferrals The Groups investments in ACB and China Bohai Bank are main area of operation is Hong Kong.
less than 20 per cent but both ACB and China Bohai Bank are The reporting dates of these associates is within three months considered to be associates because of the significant influence of the Groups reporting date.
the Group is able to exercise over the management of these 128 Standard Chartered 2008 25. Business combinations 2008 acquisitions On 25 February 2008, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the On 27 December 2008, the Group acquired the good bank share capital of Yeahreum Mutual Savings Bank Yeahreum, portion of Asia Trust and Investment Corporation, a Taiwanese a Korean banking company.
On 29 February 2008, the Group acquired 100 per cent of If the acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2008, the the share capital of American Express Bank Limited AEB, operating income of the Group would have been approximately a financial services company.
The Group also entered into a $14,093 million and profit before taxation would have been put and call option agreement with American Express Company, approximately $4,809 million.
exercisable 18 months from the acquisition of AEB, to purchase During 2008, the Group acquired the remaining 20 per cent 100 per cent of American Express International Deposit Corporation minority of A Brain Co. Limited for a consideration of $8 million, at a purchase price equivalent to its net asset value at the time generating additional goodwill of $5 million.
The assets and liabilities arising from the acquisitions are as follows: AEB Other acquisitions Acquirees Acquirees Fair value carrying amount Fair value carrying amount $million $million $million $million Cash and balances at central banks 1,041 1,041 131 131 Derivative financial instruments 511 511 Loans and advances to banks 7,142 7,143 639 667 Loans and advances to customers 4,781 4,783 233 233 Investment securities 2,864 2,883 87 88 Intangibles other than goodwill 88 4 Property, plant and equipment 27 34 30 23 Deferred tax assets 10 4 Other assets 527 544 21 23 Total assets 16,991 16,943 1,145 1,165 Derivative financial instruments 514 514 Deposits by banks 5,519 5,519 Customer accounts 8,392 8,392 1,192 1,192 Other liabilities 1,848 1,829 47 43 Provisions for liabilities and charges 55 Retirement benefit obligations 46 46 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 190 190 Total liabilities 16,564 16,490 1,239 1,235 Net assets acquired 427 453 94 70 Purchase consideration settled in cash 823 161 Cash and cash equivalents in subsidiary acquired 6,700 551 Cash inflow on acquisition 5,877 390 Purchase consideration: cash paid 798 160 direct costs relating to the acquisition 25 1 Total purchase consideration 823 161 Less: Fair value of net assets liabilities acquired assumed 427 94 Goodwill 396 255 Intangible assets acquired: Customer relationships 84 Capitalised software 4 Total 88 Contribution from acquisition to 31 December 2008: Operating income 552 1 Loss before taxation 124 9 Cash and balances at central banks include amounts subject to regulatory restrictions.
The fair value amounts for other acquisitions contain some provisional balances which will be finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of AEB is attributable to the significant synergies expected to arise from their development within the Group and to those intangibles which are not recognised separately, such as the distribution network and acquired workforce.
Goodwill arising on other acquisitions is attributable to those intangibles which are not recognised separately, such as the distribution network.
com 129 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 25. Business combinations continued 2007 acquisitions On 5 October 2007, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2007, the operating share capital of Pembroke Group Limited, an aircraft leasing, income of the Group would have been approximately $11,132 financing and management company.
On 3 December 2007, million and profit before taxation would have been approximately the Group acquired 100 per cent of the share capital of Harrison $4,043 million.
Lovegrove & Co Limited, an oil and gas advisory boutique During 2007, the Group acquired the remaining minority interest company.
On 5 December 2007, the Group acquired 80 per of Hsinchu for a consideration of $43 million and generated cent of A Brain Co Limited, a Korean fund administration additional goodwill of $34 million.
None of these acquisitions were individually material.
Goodwill arising on these acquisitions is attributable to the The acquired businesses contributed operating income of synergies expected to arise and to the value of the workforce $7 million and loss before tax of $2 million to the Group from in place which is not recognised separately.
the date of their acquisition to 31 December 2007.
The assets and liabilities arising from the acquisitions are as follows: Acquirees Fair value carrying amount $million $million Cash and balances at central banks 66 66 Loans and advances to customers 2 2 Intangibles other than goodwill 63 Property, plant and equipment 194 152 Deferred tax assets 5 10 Other assets 28 28 Total assets 358 258 Other liabilities 162 162 Total liabilities 162 162 Minority interest 3 Net assets acquired 193 96 Purchase consideration settled in cash 151 Cash and cash equivalents in subsidiary acquired 66 Cash outflow on acquisition 85 Total purchase consideration 224 Fair value of net assets acquired 193 Goodwill 31 Intangible assets acquired: Brand names 6 Customer relationships 55 Capitalised software 2 Total 63 Restated as explained in note 53.
Cash and balances at central banks include amounts subject to regulatory restrictions.
Includes cash paid $151 million: loan notes issued $5 million: deferred consideration $65 million: and cost $3 million.
Goodwill and intangible assets 2008 2007 Acquired Acquired Goodwill, Goodwill intangibles Software Total intangibles Software Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Cost At 1 January 5,785 477 533 6,795 5,678 439 458 6,575 Exchange translation differences 752 75 24 851 42 4 18 56 Acquisitions 712 88 800 65 63 128 Additions 163 163 155 155 Disposals 4 4 4 4 Amounts written off 73 73 21 83 104 Other movements 11 11 At 31 December 5,745 490 595 6,830 5,785 477 533 6,795 Provision for amortisation At 1 January 160 261 421 88 240 328 Exchange translation differences 37 17 54 1 7 6 Amortisation for the period 81 94 175 77 86 163 Amounts written off 73 73 4 72 76 At 31 December 204 265 469 160 261 421 Net book value 5,745 286 330 6,361 5,785 317 272 6,374 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 53.
Goodwill as at 1 January 2007 has been presented net of amortisation $514 million accumulated prior to the adoption of IFRS.
At 1 January 2007, the net book value was: goodwill, $5,678 million: acquired intangibles, $351 million: and software, $218 million.
At 31 December 2008, accumulated goodwill impairment losses incurred from 1 January 2005 amounted to $69 million 2007: $69 million.
2008 2007 $million $million Acquired intangibles comprise: Core deposits 68 108 Customer relationships 144 103 Brand names 67 102 Licences 7 4 Net book value 286 317 Acquired intangibles primarily comprise those recognised as part of the acquisitions of SC First Bank SCFB, Permata, Union Bank, Hsinchu, Pembroke, Harrison Lovegrove and AEB.
The acquired intangibles are amortised over periods from four years to a maximum of 16 years in the case of the customer relationships intangible acquired in SCFB.
Significant items of goodwill arising on acquisitions have been allocated to the following cash generating units for the purposes of impairment testing: Goodwill 2008 2007 Acquisition Cash Generating Unit $million $million SCFB, A Brain and Yeahreum Korean business 1,534 1,904 Union Bank Pakistan business 332 431 Hsinchu and Asia Trust Taiwan business 1,192 1,100 Manhattan Card Business Credit card and personal loan Asia, India & MESA 896 896 Grindlays India and STCI India business 387 423 Grindlays MESA MESA business 368 368 Standard Chartered Bank Thai Thailand business 298 307 Permata Groups share of Permata Indonesia business 138 163 American Express Bank Financial Institutions and Private Banking business 396 Other 204 193 5,745 5,785 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 53. www.
com 131 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 26.
Goodwill and intangible assets continued All recoverable amounts were measured based on value in In assessing impairment of goodwill, the Group has assumed use.
The key assumptions and approach to determining value that growth will increase at a steady rate of 3.0 per cent 2007: in use calculations, as set out below, are solely estimates for 3.8 per cent in line with the long-term forecast global GDP the purposes of assessing impairment on acquired goodwill.
A pre-tax discount rate of 13.7 per cent 2007: The calculation for each unit uses cash flow projections based 13.0 per cent was used.
on budgets and forecasts approved by management covering India businesses one year, except for Taiwan business five years, Korea business Grindlays India was acquired in 2000 with initial goodwill four years and Thailand business and Permata five years.
This was amortised to $366 million Management forecasts projected revenue growth rates greater under UK GAAP until 31 December 2003.
It comprises Consumer than long-term GDP rates but which are in line with past and Wholesale Banking operations in India.
In 2008, the Group performance as adjusted to reflect the current economic acquired a 74.9 per cent interest in STCI, with initial goodwill climate, especially for 2009 and 2010.
Cash flow projections are recognised of $52 million.
extrapolated forward for periods of up to a further 19 years using steady long-term forecast GDP growth rates and a terminal In assessing impairment of goodwill, the Group has assumed value determined based on long-term earning multiples.
Where that growth will increase at a steady rate of 6.8 per cent 2007: these rates are different from available market data on long-term 7.1 per cent in line with the long-term forecast GDP growth rates, that fact is stated below.
The cash flows are discounted of India.
A pre-tax discount rate of 18.6 per cent 2007: using a pre-tax discount rate which reflects current market rates 26.5 per cent was used.
appropriate to the cash generating unit.
Management believes MESA business that any reasonable possible change in the key assumptions Grindlays MESA was acquired in 2000 with initial goodwill on which the recoverable amounts have been based would not recognised of $446 million.
This was amortised to $366 million cause the carrying amounts to exceed their recoverable amount.
under UK GAAP until 31 December 2003.
It comprises Korea businesses Consumer and Wholesale Banking operations in MESA.
SCFB, A Brain and Yeahreum were acquired in 2005, 2007 In assessing impairment of goodwill, the Group has assumed and 2008 respectively with initial goodwill recognised of that growth will increase at a steady rate of 3.0 per cent in line $1,891 million and a further $5 million goodwill recognised with the long term forecast GDP growth of MESA.
A pre-tax in 2008 in respect of A Brain.
The businesses comprise discount rate of 19.6 per cent 2007: 15.8 per cent was used.
Consumer and Wholesale Banking operations in Korea.
Thailand business In assessing impairment of goodwill, the Group has assumed 75 per cent of Standard Chartered Bank Thai was acquired in that growth beyond 2012 will increase at a steady rate of 3.7 per 1999 with initial goodwill recognised of $222 million.
This was cent 2007: 4.2 per cent in line with the long-term forecast GDP amortised to $204 million under UK GAAP until 31 December growth of Korea.
A pre-tax discount rate of 17.2 per cent 2007: 2003.
In 2005 the Group acquired the remaining 25 per cent, 16.4 per cent was used.
The business comprises Pakistan business Consumer and Wholesale Banking operations in Thailand.
Union Bank was acquired in September 2006 with initial goodwill In assessing impairment of goodwill, the Group has assumed recognised of $414 million.
Additional goodwill of $17 million that growth beyond 2013 will increase at a steady rate of arose as a result of a share swap.
Together with the Groups 4.6 per cent 2007: 5.6 per cent in line with the long term existing operations, the combined business comprises forecast GDP growth of Thailand.
A pre-tax discount rate Consumer and Wholesale Banking operations in Pakistan.
In assessing impairment of goodwill, the Group has assumed Groups share of Permata that growth will increase at a steady rate of 5.6 per cent 2007: 31.55 per cent of Permata was acquired in 2004 with initial 7.4 per cent in line with the long-term forecast GDP growth goodwill recognised of $115 million.
A further 12.96 per cent of Pakistan.
A pre-tax discount rate of 25.9 per cent 2007: was acquired in September 2006, generating further goodwill 26.1 per cent was used.
This business comprises Consumer and Taiwan businesses Wholesale Banking operations in Indonesia.
Hsinchu and Asia Trust were acquired in 2006 and 2008 In assessing impairment of goodwill, the Group has assumed respectively with initial goodwill recognised of $1,142 million that growth beyond 2013 will increase at a steady rate of 5.9 per and a further $34 million of goodwill recognised in 2007 cent 2007: 5.4 per cent in line with the long-term forecast GDP in respect of Hsinchu.
Together with the Groups existing growth of Indonesia.
A pre-tax discount rate of 24.3 per cent operation, the combined business comprises Consumer 2007: 25.9 per cent was used.
and Wholesale Banking operations in Taiwan.
Financial institution and Private Banking business In assessing impairment of goodwill, the Group has assumed 100 per cent of AEB was acquired in February 2008 with initial that growth beyond 2013 will increase at a steady rate of goodwill recognised of $396 million.
The business comprises 4.1 per cent 2007: 4.5 per cent in line with the long-term Consumer and Wholesale Banking operations in the Americas, forecast GDP growth of Taiwan.
A pre-tax discount rate of Europe and Asia.
In assessing impairment of goodwill, the Group has assumed Credit card business that growth will remain at a steady 3.0 per cent, in line with longManhattan Card Business was acquired in 2000 with initial term forecast global GDP growth.
A pre-tax discount rate of goodwill recognised of $1,061 million.
This was amortised to 13.7 per cent was used.
$892 million under UK GAAP until 31 December 2003.
The business comprises a credit card business and a personal loans business across Asia, India and MESA.
Property, plant and equipment 2008 2007 Premises Equipment Total Premises Equipment Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Cost or valuation At 1 January 2,711 822 3,533 2,184 509 2,693 Exchange translation differences 407 95 502 71 20 91 Additions 363 1,068 1,431 309 162 471 Acquisitions 38 19 57 194 194 Disposals and fully depreciated assets written off 11 74 85 55 55 110 Reclassification 44 44 202 8 194 Transfers to assets held for re-sale 74 74 At 31 December 2,576 1,784 4,360 2,711 822 3,533 Depreciation Accumulated at 1 January 261 380 641 215 310 525 Exchange translation differences 32 64 96 5 17 22 Charge for the year 98 152 250 78 104 182 Attributable to assets sold or written off 21 21 37 51 88 Accumulated at 31 December 327 447 774 261 380 641 Net book amount at 31 December 2,249 1,337 3,586 2,450 442 2,892 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 53.
These amounts were reclassified from other assets.
At 1 January 2007, the net book value was: premises, $1,969 million: and equipment, $199 million.
Equipment includes operating lease assets of $1,029 million 2007: $200 million see note 20.
Assets held under finance leases have the following net book amount: 2008 2007 Premises Equipment Premises Equipment $million $million $million $million Cost 45 15 53 13 Aggregate depreciation 6 7 6 5 Net book amount 39 8 47 8 The Groups premises leases include rent review periods, renewal terms and in some cases purchase options.
2008 2007 $million $million Minimum lease payments under finance leases falling due: Within one year 5 4 Later than one year and less than five years 7 8 12 12 Future finance charges on finance leases 2 2 Present value of finance lease liabilities 10 10 www.
com 133 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the reporting period: Exchange Charge Charge At At & other Acquisitions credit credit 31 December 1 January 2008 adjustments disposals to profit to equity 2008 $million $million $million $million $million $million Deferred taxation comprises: Accelerated tax depreciation 56 3 3 27 29 Impairment provisions on loans and advances 275 12 3 92 174 Tax losses carried forward 52 9 102 145 Available-for-sale assets 79 4 5 7 63 Premises revaluation 17 17 Cash flow hedges 20 1 54 35 Unrelieved foreign tax 57 23 34 Retirement benefit obligations 41 1 13 60 89 Share based payments 88 21 46 21 Other temporary differences 107 10 80 37 560 16 14 149 75 484 At Exchange Charge Charge At 1 January & other Acquisitions credit credit 31 December 2007 adjustments disposals to profit to equity 2007 $million $million $million $million $million $million Deferred taxation comprises: Accelerated tax depreciation 10 9 3 34 56 Impairment provisions on loans and advances 175 67 35 2 275 Tax losses carried forward 53 1 1 1 52 Available-for-sale assets 36 5 38 79 Premises revaluation 17 1 1 17 Cash flow hedges 24 3 7 20 Unrelieved foreign tax 76 19 57 Retirement benefit obligations 174 60 2 71 41 Share based payments 131 18 61 88 Other temporary differences 30 7 1 143 107 512 5 207 164 560 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 53.
Deferred taxation comprises assets and liabilities as follows: 2008 2007 Total Asset Liability Total Asset Liability $million $million $million $million $million $million Deferred taxation comprises: Accelerated tax depreciation 29 57 28 56 79 23 Impairment provisions on loans and advances 174 249 75 275 273 2 Tax losses carried forward 145 143 2 52 52 Available-for-sale assets 63 32 31 79 77 2 Premises revaluation 17 15 2 17 15 2 Cash flow hedges 35 42 7 20 19 1 Unrelieved foreign tax 34 34 57 57 Retirement benefit obligations 89 93 4 41 41 Share based payments 21 21 88 88 Other temporary differences 37 68 31 107 114 7 484 660 176 560 593 33 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 53.
Deferred tax continued 2008 2007 $million $million No account has been taken of the following potential deferred taxation assets liabilities : Unrelieved foreign tax 738 408 Unremitted earnings from overseas subsidiaries 484 369 Foreign exchange movements on investments in branches 6 136 Tax losses 38 56 29.
Other assets 2008 2007 $million $million Hong Kong SAR Government certificates of indebtedness note 35 3,097 2,862 Cash collateral 9,102 2,015 Other 8,175 6,134 20,374 11,011 The government of Hong Kong certificates of indebtedness are subordinated to the claims of other parties in respect of bank notes issued.
Deposits by banks 2008 2007 $million $million Deposits by banks 31,909 25,880 Deposits by banks included within: Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss note 32 4,077 2,705 35,986 28,585 31.
Customer accounts 2008 2007 $million $million Customer accounts 234,008 179,760 Customer accounts included within: Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss note 32 4,583 2,836 238,591 182,596 Included in customer accounts were deposits of $1,299 million 2007: $2,805 million held as collateral for irrevocable commitments under import letters of credit.
com 135 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 32.
Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss 2008 Designated at fair value through profit Trading or loss Total $million $million $million Deposits by banks 4,028 49 4,077 Customer accounts 1,207 3,376 4,583 Debt securities in issue 2,128 1,494 3,622 Short positions 3,196 3,196 10,559 4,919 15,478 2007 Designated at fair value through profit Trading or loss Total $million $million $million Deposits by banks 2,532 173 2,705 Customer accounts 772 2,064 2,836 Debt securities in issue 2,665 2,351 5,016 Short positions 3,693 3,693 9,662 4,588 14,250 The Group designates certain financial liabilities at fair value The changes in fair value of both the underlying liabilities through profit or loss where either the liabilities: and derivatives are monitored in a similar manner to trading book portfolios.
have fixed rates of interest and interest rate swaps or other interest rate derivatives have been entered into with the The net fair value loss on liabilities designated at fair value intention of significantly reducing interest rate risk: or through profit or loss was $118 million for the year 2007: $37.3 million.
Of this, a loss of $11.2 million 2007: gain of are exposed to foreign currency risk and derivatives have $0.2 million relates to changes in credit risk.
The cumulative been acquired with the intention of significantly reducing fair value movement relating to changes in credit risk was a exposure to market changes: or loss of $16.4 million 2007: a loss of $5.2 million.
have been acquired to fund trading asset portfolios or As at 31 December 2008, the amount the Group is contractually assets, or where the assets and liabilities are managed, obliged to pay at maturity to the holders of these obligations was and performance evaluated, on a fair value basis for a $407 million higher 2007: $52 million lower than the carrying documented risk management or investment strategy.
Derivatives are recorded at fair value whereas non-trading The change in fair value attributable to credit risk was determined financial liabilities unless designated at fair value are recorded by comparing fair value movements in risk-free debt instruments at amortised cost.
Designation of certain liabilities at fair value with similar maturities, to the changes in fair value of liabilities through profit or loss significantly reduces the accounting designated at fair value through profit or loss.
mismatch between fair value and amortised cost expense recognition a criterion of IAS 39.
The Group ensures the criteria under IAS 39 are met by matching the principal terms of derivatives to the corresponding liabilities, either individually or on a portfolio basis.
Debt securities in issue 2008 2007 Certificates of Certificates of deposit of deposit of Other debt Other debt $100,000 securities $100,000 securities or more or more in issue Total in issue Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Debt securities in issue 13,284 10,163 23,447 8,502 18,635 27,137 Debt securities in issue included within: Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss note 32 460 3,162 3,622 951 4,065 5,016 13,744 13,325 27,069 9,453 22,700 32,153 The Company has other debt securities in issue at 31 December 2008 of $1,372 million 2007: $nil million.
Other liabilities 2008 2007 $million $million Notes in circulation 3,097 2,862 Acceptances and endorsements 2,539 2,242 Cash collateral 3,765 1,086 Cash-settled share based payments 31 73 Other liabilities 7,931 8,479 17,363 14,742 Hong Kong currency notes in circulation of $3,097 million 2007: $2,862 million which are secured by the government of Hong Kong SAR certificates of indebtedness of the same amount included in other assets note 29. www.
com 137 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 36.
Provisions for liabilities and charges Provision for credit Other commitments provisions Total $million $million $million At 1 January 2008 18 20 38 Exchange translation differences 3 2 5 Acquisitions 1 55 56 Charge against profit 27 76 103 Provisions utilised 17 35 52 At 31 December 2008 26 114 140 Provision for credit commitments comprises those undrawn contractually committed facilities where there is doubt as to the borrowers ability to meet their repayment obligations.
Other provisions include contingent business related provisions, the amount and timing of which is uncertain.
Retirement benefit obligations Retirement benefit obligations comprise: 2008 2007 $million $million Defined benefit schemes obligation 433 313 Defined contribution schemes obligation 14 9 Net book amount 447 322 2008 2007 $million $million At 1 January 322 553 Exchange translation differences 55 7 Acquisitions 47 1 Charge against profit net of finance income 172 213 Change in net liability 39 452 At 31 December 447 322 Retirement benefit charge comprises: 2008 2007 $million $million Defined benefit schemes 45 110 Defined contribution schemes 127 103 Charge against profit note 8 172 213 The 2008 charge is presented net and includes a finance charge of $6 million 2007: $11 million.
Retirement benefit obligations continued UK Fund The financial position of the Groups principal retirement benefit performed as at 31 December 2005 by M. Slack, Fellow of the scheme, the Standard Chartered Pension Fund the Fund Institute of Actuaries, of Lane, Clark and Peacock Actuaries, a defined benefit scheme, is assessed in the light of the advice using the projected unit method.
The assumptions having the of an independent qualified actuary.
The most recent actuarial most significant effect on the outcome of this valuation were: assessment of the Fund for the purpose of funding was Return from gilts 3.95 per cent per annum Return from return seeking assets 5.70 per cent per annum General increase in salaries 4.40 per cent per annum Rate of price inflation 2.90 per cent per annum Increase in pensions: In deferment where applicable 2.90 per cent per annum In payment pre April 1997 service 2.70 per cent per annum In payment post April 1997 service 2.20 2.90 per cent per annum Applies to discretionary increases and some guaranteed increases.
Applying these assumptions, at the valuation date the market Pension costs for the purpose of these accounts were assessed value of the assets of the Fund $1,772 million was sufficient using the projected unit method, and the assumptions set out to cover 99.5 per cent of the benefits that had accrued to below were based on market data at the date of calculation.
Additional contributions of $8.4 million were paid Overseas Schemes during 2007 and $5.6 million in 2008.
Additional contributions The principal overseas defined benefit arrangements operated of $1.8 million are payable in each of 2009 and 2010. by the Group are in Germany, Hong Kong, India, Jersey, Korea, Contributions paid to the Fund during 2008 were $18 million Switzerland, Taiwan and the United States.
2007: $24 million and regular contributions were set at 32.5 The disclosures required under IAS 19 have been calculated per cent of pensionable salary for all members.
With effect from by qualified independent actuaries based on the most recent 1 July 1998 the Fund was closed to new entrants and new full actuarial valuations updated, where necessary, to employees have subsequently been offered membership of a 31 December 2008. defined contribution scheme.
Due to the closure of the Fund to new entrants, the current service cost will increase as Separate figures are disclosed for the UK Fund, Overseas a percentage of pensionable pay as the members Funded Defined Benefit, Post-retirement Medical and Other approach retirement.
The financial assumptions used at 31 December 2008 were: Funded defined benefit schemes UK Fund Overseas Schemes 2008 2007 2008 2007 % % % % Price inflation 2.90 3.20 1.50 4.50 1.50 4.50 Salary increases 4.40 4.70 3.50 6.00 3.50 6.00 Pension increases 2.90 3.10 0.00 2.90 0.00 3.10 Discount rate 6.40 5.90 1.20 7.50 2.50 8.00 Post-retirement medical trend rate N A N A N A N A The assumptions for life expectancy for the UK Fund assumes that a male member currently aged 60 will live for 27 years 2007: 27 years and a female member 30 years 2007: 30 years and a male member currently aged 40 will live for 28 years 2007: 28 years and a female member 31 years 2007: 31 years after their 60th birthday.
The range of assumptions shown is for the main funded defined benefit overseas schemes in Germany, Hong Kong, India, Jersey, Korea, Switzerland, Taiwan and the United States.
These comprise over 92 per cent of the total liabilities of funded overseas schemes.
com 139 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 37.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Unfunded schemes Post-retirement medical Other 2008 2007 2008 2007 % % % % Price inflation 2.70 2.70 1.50 9.50 1.50 7.00 Salary increases 4.00 4.00 3.50 11.00 3.50 9.00 Pension increases N A N A 0.00 2.90 0.00 3.10 Discount rate 5.50 6.00 2.00 13.00 2.75 10.00 Post-retirement medical rate 8% in 2008 8% in 2007 N A N A reducing by reducing by 1% per 1% per annum to annum to 5% in 2011 5% in 2010 The Post-retirement Medical plan is in the United States.
The assets and liabilities of the schemes, attributable to defined benefit members, at 31 December 2008 were: Funded defined benefit schemes Unfunded schemes UK Fund Overseas schemes Post-retirement medical Other Expected Expected Expected return on Value Expected return Value return on Value return on Value At 31 December 2008 assets % $million on assets % $million assets % $million assets % $million Equities 8.00 269 8.00 8.75 158 N A N A N A N A Bonds 3.75 787 5.25 5.75 166 N A N A N A N A Property N A N A 1 N A N A N A N A Others 8.00 176 1.20 5.30 164 N A N A N A N A Total market value of assets 1,232 489 N A N A Present value of the schemes liabilities 1,296 693 12 153 Net pension liability 64 204 12 153 Funded defined benefit schemes Unfunded schemes UK Fund Overseas schemes Post-retirement medical Other Expected Expected Expected return on Value Expected return Value return on Value return on Value At 31 December 2007 assets % $million on assets % $million assets % $million assets % $million Equities 8.50 628 8.30 13.00 224 N A N A N A N A Bonds 4.80 1,188 4.25 10.00 186 N A N A N A N A Property N A 5.90 11.00 3 N A N A N A N A Others 4.80 97 2.50 8.00 162 N A N A N A N A Total market value of assets 1,913 575 N A N A Present value of the schemes liabilities 1,931 602 11 257 Net pension liability 18 27 11 257 Funded defined benefit schemes Unfunded schemes UK Fund Overseas schemes Post-retirement medical Other Value Value Value Value At 31 December 2006 $million $million $million $million Total market value of assets 1,822 517 N A N A Present value of the schemes liabilities 1,982 542 9 347 Net pension liability 160 25 9 347 At 31 December 2005 Total market value of assets 1,550 380 N A N A Present value of the schemes liabilities 1,785 403 11 196 Net pension liability 235 23 11 196 At 31 December 2004 Total market value of assets 1,596 317 N A N A Present value of the schemes liabilities 1,679 338 11 45 Net pension liability 83 21 11 45 The range of assumptions shown is for the main Overseas Schemes in Germany, Hong Kong, India, Jersey, Korea, Switzerland, Taiwan and the United States.
The expected return on plan assets is set by reference to historical returns in each of the main asset classes, current market indicators such as long term bond yields and the expected long term strategic asset allocation of each plan.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The pension cost for defined benefit schemes was: Funded defined benefit schemes Unfunded schemes PostOverseas retirement UK Fund schemes medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2008 $million $million $million $million $million Current service cost 12 58 18 88 Past service cost 3 1 1 5 Loss gain on settlements and curtailments 1 55 54 Expected return on pension scheme assets 104 36 140 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 103 30 1 12 146 Total charge credit to profit before deduction of tax 15 53 1 24 45 Loss on assets below expected return 203 130 333 Experience gain loss on liabilities 143 35 4 104 Total loss recognised directly in Statement of Recognised Income and Expense before tax 60 165 4 229 Deferred taxation 16 44 60 Total loss after tax 44 121 4 169 The actual return on the UK fund assets was $99 million and on overseas scheme assets was $94 million.
The total cumulative amount recognised directly in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense before tax to date is a loss of $43 million 2007: gain of $186 million.
Funded defined benefit schemes Unfunded schemes PostOverseas retirement UK Fund schemes medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2007 $million $million $million $million $million Current service cost 18 52 25 95 Past service cost 1 4 2 7 Gain on settlements and curtailments 3 3 Expected return on pension scheme assets 100 32 132 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 100 24 1 18 143 Total charge to profit before deduction of tax 19 48 1 42 110 Gain on assets in excess of expected return 28 2 30 Experience gain loss on liabilities 113 12 2 108 207 Total gain loss recognised directly in Statement of Recognised Income and Expense before tax 141 10 2 108 237 Deferred taxation 44 27 71 Total gain loss after tax 97 10 2 81 166 The actual return on the UK fund assets was $128 million and on overseas scheme assets was $34 million.
com 141 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 37.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Funded defined benefit schemes Unfunded schemes PostOverseas retirement UK Fund schemes medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2006 $million $million $million $million $million Gain on assets in excess of expected return 23 27 50 Experience gain loss on liabilities 90 20 2 18 54 Total loss gain recognised directly in Statement of Recognised Income and Expense before tax 113 7 2 18 104 Deferred taxation 34 3 1 38 Total loss gain after tax 79 4 2 19 66 Year ending 31 December 2005 Gain on assets in excess of expected return 91 20 111 Experience loss on liabilities 256 5 261 Total loss gain recognised directly in Statement of Recognised Income and Expense before tax 165 15 150 Deferred taxation 50 5 45 Total loss gain after tax 115 10 105 Year ending 31 December 2004 Gain on assets in excess of expected return 20 2 22 Experience gain on liabilities 1 1 2 Loss gain on change of assumptions 23 7 1 29 Total loss gain recognised directly in Statement of Recognised Income and Expense before tax 3 4 1 1 5 Deferred taxation 1 1 Total loss gain after tax 2 4 1 1 4 The actual return on the UK fund assets was $116 million and on overseas scheme assets was $50 million.
The actual return on the UK fund assets was $184 million and on overseas scheme assets was $48 million.
The actual return on the UK fund assets was $111 million and on overseas scheme assets was $31 million.
Movement in the pension schemes and postretirement medical deficit during the year comprise: Funded defined benefit schemes Unfunded schemes PostOverseas retirement UK Fund schemes medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2008 $million $million $million $million $million Deficit at 1 January 2008 18 27 11 257 313 Contributions 23 72 54 149 Current service cost 12 58 18 88 Past service cost 3 1 1 5 Settlement curtailment costs 1 55 54 Other finance income charge 1 6 1 12 6 Actuarial loss 60 165 4 229 Acquisitions 43 4 47 Exchange rate adjustment 6 12 34 52 Deficit at 31 December 2008 64 204 12 153 433 142 Standard Chartered 2008 37.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Funded defined benefit schemes Unfunded schemes PostOverseas retirement UK Fund schemes medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2007 $million $million $million $million $million Deficit at 1 January 2007 160 25 9 347 541 Contributions 24 58 1 26 109 Current service cost 18 52 25 95 Past service cost 1 4 2 7 Settlement curtailment costs 3 3 Other finance income charge 8 1 18 11 Actuarial gain loss 141 10 2 108 237 Acquisitions 1 1 Exchange rate adjustment 4 2 1 7 Deficit at 31 December 2007 18 27 11 257 313 Movement in the pension schemes and postretirement medical gross assets and obligations during the year comprise: Assets Obligations Total Year ending 31 December 2008 $million $million $million Deficit at 1 January 2008 2,488 2,801 313 Contributions 149 149 Current service cost 88 88 Past service cost 5 5 Settlement curtailment costs 54 54 Interest cost 146 146 Expected return on scheme assets 140 140 Benefits paid out 185 185 Actuarial loss gain 333 104 229 Acquisitions 22 69 47 Exchange rate adjustment 560 612 52 Deficit at 31 December 2008 1,721 2,154 433 Assets Obligations Total Year ending 31 December 2007 $million $million $million Deficit at 1 January 2007 2,339 2,880 541 Contributions 109 109 Current service cost 95 95 Past service cost 7 7 Settlement curtailment costs 3 3 Interest cost 143 143 Expected return on scheme assets 132 132 Benefits paid out 146 146 Actuarial gain 30 207 237 Acquisitions 1 1 Exchange rate adjustment 24 31 7 Deficit at 31 December 2007 2,488 2,801 313 www.
com 143 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 38.
Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 2008 2007 $million $million Subordinated loan capital issued by subsidiary undertakings 675 million 5.375 per cent undated step up Subordinated Notes callable and floating rate from 2020 1,064 1,276 600 million 8.103 per cent Step-Up Callable Perpetual Trust Preferred Securities callable 2016 1,085 1,356 700 million 7.75 per cent Subordinated debt 2018 1,090 300 million 6.0 per cent Subordinated debt 2018 486 610 300 million 6.75 per cent Notes 2009 390 535 200 million 7.75 per cent Notes callable 2022 360 454 30 million Floating Rate Notes 2009 44 59 1,100 million 5.875 per cent Subordinated debt 2017 1,609 1,013 750 million 3.625 per cent Subordinated Notes 2017 Floating rate from 2012 1,066 1,043 675 million Floating Rate Notes 2018 951 983 600 million 5.375 per cent Notes 2009 755 783 500 million 8.16 per cent non-cumulative Trust Preferred Securities callable 2010 711 734 $1 billion 6.4 per cent Subordinated debt 2017 1,203 1,042 $700 million 8.0 per cent Subordinated Notes 2031 1,022 753 $500 million Floating Rate Notes 2016 499 499 $500 million Floating Rate Notes 2015 499 499 $350 million 4.375 per cent Notes 2014 Floating rate from 2009 358 351 $300 million Floating Rate Note 2017 297 300 $154 million Subordinated debt 2013 147 $100 million Floating Rate Notes 2018 100 100 $92 million Subordinated debt 2013 92 BWP 75 million Subordinated debt 2017 10 13 BWP 75 million Floating Rate Notes 2012 12 BWP 50 million Fixed and Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2015 7 8 HKD 670 million Floating Rate Notes 2014 77 86 HKD 500 million 3.5 per cent Notes 2014 Floating rate from 2009 66 64 IDR 500 billion Floating Rate Notes 2016 20 23 JPY 10 billion 3.35 per cent Subordinated debt 2023 116 KRW 260 billion Subordinated debt 2018 219 KRW 205 billion Subordinated debt 2009 158 214 KRW 160 billion Subordinated debt 2008 161 KRW 90 billion Subordinated debt 2018 81 KRW 30 billion Subordinated debt 2011 24 32 KRW 27 billion Subordinated debt 2008 28 KRW 3 billion Subordinated debt 2011 2 3 MYR 500 million 4.28 per cent Subordinated Bonds 2017 150 151 PKR 1 billion Floating Rate Notes 2015 13 16 PKR 750 million Floating Rate Notes 2011 9 12 PKR 750 million Floating Rate Notes 2008 3 SGD 450 million 5.25 per cent Subordinated debt 2023 334 TWD 10 billion undated Floating Rate Notes 305 308 TZS 8 billion Subordinated Notes 2015 6 7 15,186 13,770 Subordinated loan capital issued by company: Primary capital floating rate notes $400 million 58 400 $300 million Series 2 82 300 $400 million Series 3 84 400 $200 million Series 4 52 200 150 million 217 298 Other borrowings issued by company 1,307 372 1,800 1,970 Total for Group 16,986 15,740 Total for Company 1,736 1,987 In the balance sheet of the Company the amount recognised is $1,243 million 2007: $389 million with the difference being the effect of hedge accounting achieved on a Group basis.
Other borrowings comprise irredeemable sterling preference shares and US dollar non-cumulative redeemable preference shares.
Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds continued All subordinated liabilities described above are unsecured, September 2007.
The two issues were consolidated and formed unguaranteed and subordinated to the claims of other creditors a single series with effect from 29 May 2008. including without limitation, customer deposits and deposits by On 18 April 2008, Standard Chartered Bank issued JPY10 billion banks.
The Group has the right to settle these debt instruments in Lower Tier 2 Fixed Rate Notes, due 2023 with an issuers call certain circumstances as set out in the contractual agreements.
option after ten years, with a coupon of 3.35 per cent.
Of the total subordinated liabilities and other borrowings, On 25 May 2008, SCFB issued KRW260 billion Lower Tier 2 $11,865 million is at fixed interest rates 2007: $10,166 million.
Fixed Rate Notes, due 2018 with an issuers call option after On 19 March 2008, Standard Chartered First Bank Korea five years, with a coupon of 6.08 per cent.
Limited SCFB issued KRW90 billion Lower Tier 2 Notes On 27 May 2008, the Company issued $675 million nonwith a coupon of 6.05 per cent maturing March 2018. cumulative redeemable preference shares of $5 each, with a On 2 April 2008 and 18 April 2008 Standard Chartered Bank coupon of 8.125 per cent and with an issuers call option in issued two tranches of Lower Tier 2 Notes for 500 million and November 2013, at a premium of $1,995 per share.
200 million respectively, with a maturity date of April 2018, and a On 19 September 2008, the Company issued $250 million coupon of 7.75 percent.
The Notes were consolidated and 8.125 per cent non-cumulative redeemable preference shares formed a single series with effect from 29 May 2008. of $5 each with an issuers call option in November 2013, at a On 10 April 2008 and 18 April 2008, Standard Chartered Bank premium of $1,995 per share.
From 27 November 2008, the issued two tranches of Lower Tier 2 Notes for SGD200 million shares were consolidated to form a single series with the and SGD250 million respectively, with a coupon of 5.25 per $675 million 8.125 per cent non-cumulative redeemable cent.
The Notes have a maturity date of April 2023, and an preference shares issued on 27 May 2008. issuers call option in April 2018.
The Notes were consolidated On 19 November 2008 the Company launched a tender offer for and form a single series with effect from 18 April 2008. all Primary Capital Floating Rate Notes denominated in US dollars On 18 April 2008, Standard Chartered Bank issued 400 million for repurchase at 62.5 per cent of their par value.
$1,024 million Lower Tier 2 Notes, due 2017, with a coupon of 5.875 per cent, Notes were redeemed, generating a profit of $384 million.
as a tap on the 700 million Lower Tier 2 Notes issued in 39.
Share capital The authorised share capital of the Company at 31 December amount equal to any dividends accrued and or payable and 2008 was $4,933 million 2007: $5,269 million made up of the nominal value of the shares together with any premium as 2,632 million ordinary shares of $0.50 each, 500 million nondetermined by the board.
The redeemable preference shares are cumulative irredeemable preference shares of 1 each, 300 redeemable at the paid up amount which includes premium at million non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of $5 each the option of the Company in accordance with the terms of the and one million non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of shares.
The holders of the preference shares are not entitled to 1,000 each.
attend or vote at any general meeting except where any relevant dividend due is not paid in full or where a resolution The available profits of the company are distributed to the is proposed varying the rights of the preference shares.
holders of the issued preference shares in priority to payments made to holders of the ordinary shares and in priority to, or pari As at 31 December 2008, 477,500 $5 non-cumulative redeemable passu with, any payments to the holders of any other class of preference shares were in issue, of which 462,500 are classified shares in issue.
On a winding up, the assets of the Company are within subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds and applied to the holders of the preference shares in priority to any which includes a premium of $923 million.
The irredeemable payment to the ordinary shareholders and in priority to, or pari preference shares of 1 each are also classified as other passu with, the holders of any other shares in issue, for an borrowed funds as required by IAS 32.
Group and Company Number of Ordinary share Preference ordinary shares capital share capital Total millions $million $million $million At 1 January 2007 1,384 692 692 Capitalised on scrip dividend 16 8 8 Share repurchased Shares issued 10 5 5 At 31 December 2007 1,410 705 705 Capitalised on scrip dividend 11 6 6 Shares issued 475 237 237 At 31 December 2008 1,896 948 948 On 16 May 2008, the Company issued 8,142,490 new ordinary was on the basis of 30 ordinary shares for every 91 ordinary shares instead of the 2007 final dividend.
On October 2008, the shares held on 24 November 2008.
The rights issue raised Company issued 2,940,049 new ordinary shares instead of the $2.7 billion in additional capital for the Company.
issue used a cash box structure involving a Jersey subsidiary JerseyCo which was 89 per cent owned by the Company prior On 24 November 2008 the Company announced the issue of to the transaction.
In return for an issue of shares by the 470,014,830 new ordinary shares by way of rights to qualifying Company to the placees, the net proceeds of the placing were shareholders at 390 pence per new ordinary share.
com 145 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 39.
Share capital continued paid to JerseyCo.
Pursuant to the issue of those shares, the On 10 May 2007, the Company issued 12,765,274 new ordinary Company acquired the remaining share capital of JerseyCo, shares instead of the 2006 final dividend.
On 10 October 2007, being all of its redeemable preference shares and the 11 per the Company issued 3,163,466 new ordinary shares instead of cent of the ordinary shares it did not own.
Under this structure the 2007 interim dividend.
merger relief applies under Section 131 of the Companies Act On 25 May 2007, the Company issued 7,500 non-cumulative 1985 which provides relief from the requirements under Section redeemable preference shares of $5 each at a placing price of 130 of the Companies Act 1985 to create a share premium $100,000 each.
The shares are redeemable at the option of account.
JerseyCo then redeemed its redeemable shares in the Company in accordance with the terms of the shares at the exchange for the placing proceeds.
paid up amount which includes premium, have discretionary The middle market price on 17 December 2008 was 766 pence.
dividend payments and are accordingly classified as equity The proceeds of the issue of ordinary shares was used in the as required by IAS 32.
The shares were issued to fund the ordinary course of business.
continuing business of the Group.
During 2008, 5,410,537 ordinary shares were issued under The holding of Standard Chartered PLC shares for the beneficiaries the Companys employee share plans at prices between nil of the Groups share based award schemes is set out in note 40. and 1243 pence.
During 2007, 9,012,891 ordinary shares were issued under the Companys employee share plans at prices between nil and 1064 pence.
Reserves Group Share Capital AvailableCash flow premium Capital redemption Merger for-sale hedge Translation Retained account reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million At 1 January 2007 3,865 5 13 3,149 410 51 678 7,990 16,161 Recognised income and expense 340 6 303 3,010 3,659 Capitalised on scrip dividend 8 8 Shares issued, net of expenses 856 856 Net own shares adjustment 24 24 Share option expense and related taxation 55 55 Dividends, net of scrip 601 601 At 31 December 2007 4,713 5 13 3,149 750 57 981 10,478 20,146 Recognised income and expense 755 140 2,765 3,239 421 Capitalised on scrip dividend 6 6 Shares issued, net of expenses 36 2,468 2,504 Rights issue option, net of tax 167 167 Net own shares adjustment 67 67 Share option expense and related taxation 128 128 Dividends, net of scrip 925 925 At 31 December 2008 4,743 5 13 5,450 5 83 1,784 12,853 21,192 The premium of $923 million arising on the issue of the $5 non-cumulative redeemable preference shares classified within Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds is not included within the share premium account and forms part of the reported liability.
Transaction costs relating to share issues deducted from funding of certain acquisitions and in 2008 for the shares issued reserves account total $84 million 2007: $5 million.
The funding raised by the 2008 rights issue was retained within the Company.
The cumulative amount of goodwill on the acquisition of subsidiary and associated undertakings written off against Available-for-sale reserve is the fair value movement of financial Group reserves since 1973 is $27 million 2007: $27 million.
Gains and losses are deferred to this reserve until such time as the underlying asset The capital reserve represents the exchange difference on is sold or matures.
redenomination of share capital and share premium from sterling to US dollars in 2001.
Cash flow hedge reserve is the fair value movement of derivatives that meet the criteria of a cash flow hedge.
Gains and losses are The capital redemption reserve represents the nominal value deferred to this reserve until such time as the underlying hedged of preference shares redeemed.
item affects profit and loss.
The merger reserve represents the premium arising on shares Translation reserve represents the cumulative foreign exchange issued using a cash box financing structure as detailed in note gains and losses on translation of the net investment of the 39, which required the Company to create a merger reserve Group in foreign operations.
Since 1 January 2004, gains under section 131 of the Companies Act 1985.
Shares were and losses are deferred to this reserve until such time as the issued using this structure in 2005 and 2006 to assist in the 146 Standard Chartered 2008 40.
Reserves continued underlying foreign operation is disposed.
Gains and losses Shares of the Group held for the beneficiaries of the arising from derivatives used as hedges of net investments Groups share based payment schemes are netted against the foreign exchange gains and losses Bedell Cristin Trustees Limited is trustee of both the 1995 on translation of the net investment of the foreign operations.
Employees Share Ownership Plan Trust the 1995 trust, which is an employee benefit trust used in conjunction with some of the Retained earnings are the carried forward recognised income Groups employee share schemes, and of the Standard Chartered and expenses of the Group plus current period recognised 2004 Employee Benefit Trust the 2004 trust which is an employee income and expenses less dividend distribution, treasury benefit trust used in conjunction with the Groups deferred bonus shares and share option expenses.
The trustee has agreed to satisfy a number of awards made A substantial part of the Groups reserves are held in overseas under the employee share schemes and the deferred bonus plan subsidiary undertakings and branches, principally to support through the relevant employee benefit trust.
As part of these local operations or to comply with local regulations.
The arrangements Group companies fund the trust, from time to time, maintenance of local regulatory capital ratios could potentially to enable the trustee to acquire shares to satisfy these awards.
All restrict the amount of reserves which can be remitted.
In shares have been acquired through the London Stock Exchange.
addition, if these overseas reserves were to be remitted, Except as disclosed, neither the Company nor any of its further unprovided taxation liabilities might arise.
subsidiaries has bought, sold or redeemed any securities of the company listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited during the year.
Details of the shares purchased and held by the trusts are set out below.
1995 Trust 2004 Trust Total Number of shares 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 Shares purchased: 190,600 351,340 541,940 6 March 2008 307,849 307,849 9 March 2008 1,650,000 1,650,000 9 October 2008 375,000 375,000 18 December 2008 rights issue 731,296 119,049 850,345 Total 2,756,296 190,600 426,898 351,340 3,183,194 541,940 Market price of shares purchased $million 66 5 10 10 76 15 Shares held at the end of the year 2,949,563 261,495 480,166 377,270 3,429,729 638,765 Maximum number of shares held during year 3,429,729 2,526,144 Company Share Capital premium Capital redemption Merger Retained account reserve reserve reserve earnings Total $million $million $million $million $million $million At 1 January 2007 3,865 5 13 3,149 811 7,843 Recognised income and expenses 349 349 Capitalised on scrip dividend 8 8 Shares issued, net of expenses 856 856 Net own shares adjustment 24 24 Share option expense and related taxation 78 78 Dividends, net of scrip 601 601 At 31 December 2007 4,713 5 13 3,149 661 8,541 Recognised income and expenses 2,282 2,282 Capitalised on scrip dividend 6 6 Shares issued, net of expenses 36 2,468 2,504 Rights issue option, net of tax 167 167 Net own shares adjustment 67 67 Share option expense and related taxation 158 158 Dividends, net of scrip 925 925 At 31 December 2008 4,743 5 13 5,450 2,109 12,320 The premium of $923 million arising on the issue of the $5 non-cumulative redeemable preference shares classified within Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds is not included within the share premium account and forms part of the reported liability.
com 147 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 41.
Minority interests $300m 7.267% Hybrid Other minority Tier 1 Securities interests Total $million $million $million At 1 January 2007 333 209 542 Arising on acquisitions 3 3 Income in equity attributable to minority interests 48 48 Other profits attributable to minority interests 19 129 148 Recognised income and expense 19 177 196 Distributions 22 98 120 Reductions 20 20 At 31 December 2007 330 271 601 Expenses in equity attributable to minority interests 106 106 Other profits attributable to minority interests 19 84 103 Recognised income and expense 19 22 3 Distributions 22 125 147 Other increases 104 104 At 31 December 2008 327 228 555 Other increases primarily relate to the consolidation of a private equity investment.
Share based payments The Group operates a number of share based payment which need to be met are set out in the Directors remuneration schemes for its directors and employees.
Awards of nil price options to acquire shares are granted to the executives and will normally be The total charge for the year relating to employee share based exercisable between three and ten years after the date of grant if payment plans was $121 million 2007: $117 million of which the individual is still employed by the Group.
There is provision $152 million 2007: $78 million relates to equity-settled awards, for earlier exercise in certain limited circumstances.
The and a credit of $31 million 2007: $39 million charge relates to remaining life of the scheme is three years.
After deferred tax, the total charge to the income statement was $89 million 2007: $99 million.
1997 2006 Restricted Share Scheme The Restricted Share Scheme RSS is used as an incentive plan 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme closed to motivate and retain high performing staff at any level of the No awards have been made under this scheme since August organisation.
It is also used as a vehicle for deferring part of 1999 as the scheme was replaced by the 2000 Executive Share bonuses of certain employees.
Except where used for bonus Option Scheme.
Executive share options to purchase ordinary deferral purposes, executive directors are not generally eligible to shares in the Company are exercisable after the third, but before participate in the RSS.
However upon recruitment to the Group, the tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
The exercise price is awards may be made on an exceptional basis, for example to the share price at the date of grant and options can only be newly appointed directors to compensate for share awards exercised if EPS increases by at least 15 per cent over three forfeited on leaving their previous employer.
50 per cent of the consecutive years.
award vests two years after the date of grant and the balance 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme after three years.
The awards can be exercised within seven The 2000 scheme is designed to be internationally competitive and years of the grant date.
The value of shares awarded in any year focus executive directors and their senior management teams on to any individual may not exceed two times their base salary.
An EPS performance criterion The remaining life of the scheme is eight years.
must be met before options can be exercised.
2006 Supplementary Restricted Share Scheme Executive share options to purchase ordinary shares in the In addition, the Group operates a Supplementary Restricted Company are exercisable after the third, but before the tenth, Share Scheme which can be used to defer part of an employees anniversary of the date of grant.
The exercise price per share is annual bonus in shares.
The plan is principally used for employees the share price at the date of grant and options can only be in the global markets area and is similar to the RSS outlined exercised if a performance condition is satisfied.
The remaining above except for three important factors: executive directors life of the scheme is two years.
are specifically prohibited from the plan: no new shares can be issued to satisfy awards: and there is no individual annual limit.
2001 Performance Share Plan The remaining life of the scheme is eight years.
The Performance Share Plan is designed to be an intrinsic part of total remuneration for the Groups executive directors and for 2004 Deferred Bonus Plan a small number of the Groups most senior executives.
It is an Under the 2004 Deferred Bonus Plan, shares are conditionally internationally competitive long-term incentive plan that focuses awarded instead of all or part of the executive directors and executives on meeting and exceeding the long-term certain senior executives annual cash bonus.
Further details are performance targets of the Group.
The performance criteria contained in the Directors remuneration report on pages 84 and 91.
The remaining life of the plan is six years.
Share based payments continued All Employee Sharesave Schemes purchase ordinary shares in the Company.
The price at which No awards have been made under the 1994 UK Sharesave they may purchase shares is at a discount of up to 20 per and 1996 International Sharesave schemes since 2003, cent on the share price at the date of invitation.
There are no as these were replaced by the 2004 UK and International performance conditions attached to options granted under all Sharesave schemes.
During the year a new Irish sharesave the employee sharesave schemes.
scheme was introduced for all employees of the Group in In some countries in which the Group operates, it is not the Republic of Ireland.
Under these Sharesave schemes, possible to operate Sharesave schemes, typically because of employees have the choice of opening a three-year or fivesecurities law, regulatory or other similar restrictions.
In these year savings contract.
Within a period of six months after countries the Group offers an equivalent cash-based scheme the third or fifth anniversary, as appropriate, employees may to its employees.
The remaining life of the scheme is six years.
1994 Executive Share Option Scheme 1994 ESOS Awards made under this scheme are not subject to the valuation criteria of IFRS 2, as all awards are granted prior to 7 November 2002, and are all vested as at that date.
A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2008 and 2007 is shown below: 2008 2007 Weighted Weighted average average No.
of shares exercise price No.
of shares exercise price Outstanding at 1 January 10,806 6.20 359,207 8.18 Lapsed 18,250 8.09 Exercised 10,806 6.20 330,151 8.26 Outstanding at 31 December 10,806 6.20 Exercisable at 31 December 10,806 6.20 2008 2007 Weighted Weighted Weighted average Weighted average average remaining average remaining Range of exercise price for options outstanding exercise price contractual life exercise price contractual life 6.20 6.20 0.7 years The intrinsic value of vested 1994 ESOS cash-settled awards as at 31 December 2008 was $nil million 2007: $nil million.
The weighted average share price at the time the options were exercised during 2008 was 17.23 2007: 15.34.
2000 Executive Share Option Scheme 2000 ESOS No share awards were granted during 2008 or 2007.
of shares exercise price Outstanding at 1 January 8,575,209 8.28 14,974,196 8.37 Additional shares for rights issue 937,283 Lapsed 3,348 6.05 282,650 9.04 Exercised 2,023,219 7.47 6,116,337 8.47 Outstanding at 31 December 7,485,925 7.18 8,575,209 8.28 Exercisable at 31 December 7,485,925 7.18 7,931,565 8.16 The exercise prices for grants awarded prior to the announcement of the rights issue on 24 November 2008 which have not been exercised or lapsed, have been decreased by 14.2 per cent and the number of shares granted have been increased to ensure option holders were compensated for the dilutive impact of the rights issue.
2008 2007 Weighted Weighted Weighted average Weighted average average remaining average remaining Range of exercise price for options outstanding exercise price contractual life exercise price contractual life 6.05 9.10 2007: 6.905 10.395 7.18 4.0 years 8.28 5.2 years The intrinsic value of vested 2000 ESOS cash-settled awards as at 31 December 2008 was $0.8 million 2007: $9 million.
The weighted average share price at the time the options were exercised during 2008 was 17.23 2007: 14.36. www.
com 149 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 42.
Share based payments continued 2001 Performance Share Plan 2001 PSP Valuation For awards, the fair value is based on the market value less an adjustment to take into account the expected dividends over the vesting period.
The same fair value is applied for awards made to both the directors and employees of the Group.
2008 2007 Grant date 16 September 24 April 11 March 17 September 12 March Share price at grant date 13.86 17.82 16.26 14.69 14.51 Vesting period years 3 3 3 3 3 Expected dividend yield % 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.9 2.8 Fair value EPS 12.83 16.50 15.06 6.74 6.68 Fair value TSR 5.04 6.49 5.89 2.92 2.89 The expected dividend yield is based on the historical dividend yield over the performance period, and the likelihood of meeting yield over the three years prior to grant.
The EPS and TSR fair the TSR condition which is calculated by the area under the value relates to the performance criteria to be satisfied as TSR vesting schedule curve.
The EPS fair value is derived by explained in the Directors remuneration report.
The TSR fair discounting 50 per cent of the award by the loss of expected value is derived by discounting 50 per cent of the award which dividends over the performance period and is adjusted for actual is subject to the TSR condition by the loss of expected dividends performance when calculating the charge for the year.
of shares exercise price Outstanding at 1 January 5,885,597 4,976,599 Granted 2,625,696 2,487,273 Additional shares for rights issue 1,067,755 Lapsed 105,828 490,718 Exercised 1,014,325 1,087,557 Outstanding at 31 December 8,458,895 5,885,597 Exercisable at 31 December 683,870 279,028 For grants awarded prior to the announcement of the rights issue on 24 November 2008 which have not been exercised or lapsed, the number of shares granted have been increased by 14.2 per cent to ensure option holders were compensated for the dilutive impact of the rights issue.
Of the 2,196,271 PSP grants made in 2006 and outstanding as at 31 December 2008, the TSR performance conditions are not expected to be met on 356,240 options.
As a result, it is considered that these options will not vest.
2008 2007 Weighted Weighted average Weighted average Weighted average remaining average remaining Range of exercise price for options outstanding exercise price contractual life exercise price contractual life n a 8.1 years 8.3 years The intrinsic value of vested 2001 cash-settled awards as at 31 December 2008 was $0.3 million 2007: $1 million.
The weighted average share price at the time the options were exercised during 2008 was 15.74 2007: 14.98.
1997 2006 Restricted Share Scheme 1997 2006 RSS Valuation For awards, the fair value is based on the market value less an adjustment to take into account the expected dividends over the vesting period.
2008 2007 Grant date 24 April 16 September 11 March 17 September 12 March Share price at grant date 17.82 13.86 16.26 14.69 14.51 Vesting period years 3 3 3 2 3 2 3 Expected dividend yield % 2.4 2.4 2.4 2.9 2.8 Fair value 8.25 8.25 8.25 13.49 13.36 The expected dividend yield is based on the historical dividend for three years prior to grant.
Share based payments continued A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2008 and 2007 is shown below: 2008 2007 Weighted Weighted average average No.
of shares exercise price Outstanding at 1 January 6,275,898 6,298,386 Granted 2,137,992 2,546,148 Additional shares for rights issue 925,127 Lapsed 294,595 689,603 Exercised 1,758,495 1,879,033 Outstanding at 31 December 7,285,927 6,275,898 Exercisable at 31 December 1,900,102 1,597,255 For grants awarded prior to the announcement of the rights issue on 24 November 2008 which have not been exercised or lapsed, the number of shares granted have been increased by 14.2 per cent to ensure option holders were compensated for the dilutive impact of the rights issue.
The weighted average share price at the time the options were exercised during 2008 was 15.69 2007: 15.42.
2008 2007 Weighted Weighted Weighted average Weighted average average remaining average remaining Range of exercise price for options outstanding exercise price contractual life exercise price contractual life n a 5.0 years 4.3 years The intrinsic value of vested 1997 2006 RSS cash-settled awards as at 31 December 2008 was $3 million 2007: $9 million.
2006 Supplementary Restricted Share Scheme 2006 SRSS Valuation The first awards under this scheme were made on 12 March 2007.
For awards, the fair value is based on the market value less an adjustment to take into account the expected dividends over the vesting period.
2008 2007 Grant date 16 September 11 March 17 September 12 March Share price at grant date 13.86 16.26 14.69 14.51 Vesting period years 2 3 2 3 2 3 2 3 Expected dividend yield % 2.4 2.4 2.9 2.9 Fair value 13.06 12.41 13.49 13.06 The expected dividend yield is based on the historical dividend for three years prior to grant.
A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2008 is shown below: 2008 2007 Weighted Weighted average average No.
of shares exercise price Outstanding at 1 January 187,602 Granted 2,020,181 187,602 Additional shares for rights issue 307,805 Lapsed 45,549 Exercised 27,943 Outstanding at 31 December 2,442,096 187,602 Exercisable at 31 December For grants awarded prior to the announcement of the rights issue on 24 November 2008 which have not been exercised or lapsed, the number of shares granted have been increased by 14.2 per cent to ensure option holders were compensated for the dilutive impact of the rights issue.
2008 2007 Weighted Weighted Weighted average Weighted average average remaining average remaining Range of exercise price for options outstanding exercise price contractual life exercise price contractual life n a 6.2 years 6.5 years There are no vested 2006 SRSS cash-settled awards as at 31 December 2008 and 2007. www.
com 151 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 42.
Share based payments continued 1994 1996 UK and International Sharesave Scheme Grants made under these schemes which had not vested as at 7 November 2002 are fair valued under IFRS 2.
of shares exercise price Outstanding at 1 January 561,107 5.82 1,543,784 6.12 Additional shares for rights issue 36,060 Lapsed 227,613 4.92 412,878 6.75 Exercised 206,572 5.35 569,799 5.81 Outstanding at 31 December 162,982 5.61 561,107 5.82 Exercisable at 31 December 162,982 5.61 297,272 5.60 The exercise prices for grants awarded prior to the announcement of the rights issue on 24 November 2008 which have not been exercised or lapsed, have been decreased by 14.2 per cent and the number of shares granted have been increased to ensure option holders were compensated for the dilutive impact of the rights issue.
2008 2007 Weighted Weighted Weighted average Weighted average average remaining average remaining Range of exercise price for options outstanding exercise price contractual life exercise price contractual life 4.90 5.90 5.61 0.3 years 5.82 0.8 years The weighted average share price at the time the options were exercised was 13.89 2007: 18.35 for 1994 UK Sharesave schemes and 13.89 2007: 17.56 for 1996 International Sharesave schemes.
The intrinsic value of vested 1994 1996 UK and International Sharesave cash-settled awards as at 31 December 2008 was $0.1 million 2007: $2 million.
2008 Irish Sharesave Scheme The first awards under this scheme were made on 29 September 2008.
Valuation Options are valued using a binomial option-pricing model.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 2008 Grant date 29 September Share price at grant date 14.52 Exercise price 11.62 Vesting period years 3 5 Expected volatility % 39.6 48.7 Expected option life years 3.33 5.33 Risk free rate % 2.32 2.53 Expected dividend yield % 2.5 2.73 Fair value 2.99 3.04 The expected dividend yield is based on the historical dividend for three years prior to grant.
A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2008 is shown below: 2008 Weighted average No.
of shares exercise price Outstanding at 1 January Granted 12,510 10.18 Additional shares for rights issue 1,780 Lapsed Exercised Outstanding at 31 December 14,290 10.18 Exercisable at 31 December The exercise prices for grants awarded prior to the announcement of the rights issue on 24 November 2008 which have not been exercised or lapsed, have been decreased by 14.2 per cent and the number of shares granted have been increased to ensure option holders were compensated for the dilutive impact of the rights issue.
2008 Weighted Weighted average average remaining Range of exercise price for options outstanding exercise price contractual life 10.18 10.18 5.3 years There are no vested 2008 Irish Sharesave awards as at 31 December 2008.
Share based payments continued 2004 UK and International Sharesave Schemes Valuation Options are valued using a binomial option-pricing model.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 2008 2007 Grant date 3 October 16 September 1 October 26 September Share price at grant date 14.52 14.52 15.88 16.18 Exercise price 11.62 11.62 12.43 12.43 Vesting period years 3 5 3 5 3 5 3 5 Expected volatility % 39.6 48.7 39.6 48.7 20.7 24.2 20.7 24.2 Expected option life years 3.33 5.33 3.33 5.33 3.33 5.33 3.33 5.33 Risk free rate % 2.32 2.53 2.32 2.53 4.9 5.00 5.10 5.00 Expected dividend yield % 2.5 2.73 2.5 2.73 2.9 3.3 2.9 3.3 Fair value 2.99 3.04 2.99 3.04 4.4 4.9 4.7 5.1 The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the expected dividend yield is based on historical dividend for three last three to five years, or three to five years prior to grant.
Where two amounts are shown for volatility, expected life is the average expected period to exercise.
The risk risk free rates, expected dividend yield and fair values, the first free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK Government relates to a three year vesting period and the second to a five bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
of shares exercise price Outstanding at 1 January 14,266,731 10.91 11,155,911 9.76 Granted 6,241,929 10.18 5,207,207 12.43 Additional shares rights issue 2,579,391 Lapsed 2,574,039 10.14 884,620 10.04 Exercised 284,154 7.04 1,211,767 7.43 Outstanding at 31 December 20,229,858 9.69 14,266,731 10.91 Exercisable at 31 December 3,588,924 9.69 235,616 7.43 The exercise prices for grants awarded prior to the announcement of the rights issue on 24 November 2008 which have not been exercised or lapsed, have been decreased by 14.2 per cent and the number of shares granted have been increased to ensure option holders were compensated for the dilutive impact of the rights issue.
2008 2007 Weighted Weighted average Weighted average Weighted average remaining average remaining Range of exercise price for options outstanding exercise price contractual life exercise price contractual life 6.51 10.90 9.69 1.9 years 10.91 2.7 years The weighted average share price at the time the options were exercised during 2008 was 13.92 2007: 18.59 for the UK Sharesave scheme and 13.92 2007: 18.72 for the International Sharesave scheme.
The intrinsic value of vested 2004 UK and International Sharesave cash-settled awards as at 31 December 2008 was $0.4 million 2007: $2 million.
2004 Deferred Bonus Plan Under this plan shares are issued directly to participants upon vesting.
A reconciliation of share movements over the year to 31 December 2008 and 2007 is shown below: 2008 2007 No.
of shares Outstanding at 1 January 351,340 301,952 Shares vested 324,002 285,227 Shares awarded 307,760 351,340 Additional shares for rights issue 43,756 Shares lapsed 25,997 16,725 Outstanding at 31 December 352,857 351,340 For grants awarded prior to the announcement of the rights issue on 24 November 2008 which have not been exercised or lapsed, the number of shares granted have been increased by 14.2 per cent to ensure option holders were compensated for the dilutive impact of the rights issue.
Notes: a Market value of shares on date of awards 6 March was 16.43 2007: 13.95. b The shares vest one year after the date of award.
com 153 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 43.
Cash flow statement Adjustment for non-cash items and other accounts Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 $million $million $million $million Depreciation and amortisation 425 345 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 10 1 Gain on disposal of investment securities and loan and receivable financial assets 322 342 Rights issue option 233 233 Gain arising on repurchase of  384 384 Gain arising on initial recognition and partial sale of Visa Inc. shares 17 107 Writedowns relating to asset backed securities 49 87 Movement in fair value hedges on available-for-sale assets 26 21 Amortisation of discounts and premiums of investment securities 390 259 Pension costs for defined benefit schemes 45 110 Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions 1,321 761 Dividend income from subsidiaries 1,880 385 Other impairment 469 57 Profit on sale of businesses 146 18 Gains arising on acquisition fair values and discount unwind 120 164 Interest expense on subordinated liabilities 1,049 811 184 126 Total 1,762 1,259 2,313 259 Change in operating assets Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 $million $million $million $million Increase in derivative financial instruments 47,138 12,610 Net increase decrease in debt securities, treasury bills and equity shares held at fair value through profit or loss 7,590 3,691 Net increase in loans and advances to banks and customers 39,160 14,983 Increase decrease in pre-payments and accrued income 213 519 Increase decrease in other assets 8,756 6,396 62 Total 87,251 38,199 62 Change in operating liabilities Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 $million $million $million $million Increase in derivative financial instruments 44,943 12,144 26 Net increase in deposits from banks, customer accounts and debt securities in issue 60,295 36,135 1,372 Increase decrease in accruals and deferred income 1,025 289 63 1,051 Increase decrease in other liabilities 453 4,534 40 87 Total 105,810 53,102 1,295 964 44.
Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following balances with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition.
Restricted balances comprise minimum balances required to be held at central banks.
Group Company 2008 2007 2008 2007 $million $million $million $million Cash and balances at central banks 24,161 10,175 Less restricted balances 4,615 4,846 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 9,303 6,203 Loans and advances to banks 33,913 32,464 Trading securities 10,937 11,342 Amounts owed by and due to subsidiary undertakings 5,303 930 Total 73,699 55,338 5,303 930 154 Standard Chartered 2008 45.
Capital commitments Capital expenditure approved by the directors but not provided for in these accounts amounted to: 2008 2007 $million $million Contracted 46 29 46.
Operating lease commitments 2008 2007 Premises Premises Equipment Equipment $million $million $million $million Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: Within one year 258 2 179 3 Later than one year and less than five years 470 2 434 2 After five years 509 491 1 1,237 4 1,104 6 During the year $240 million 2007: $159 million was recognised have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating The total future minimum sublease payments expected to leases.
The Group leases various premises and equipment be received under non-cancellable subleases at 31 December 2008 under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases is $5 million 2007: $17 million.
Contingent liabilities and commitments The table below shows the contract or underlying principal The risk weighted amounts have been calculated in accordance amounts and risk weighted amounts of unmatured off-balance with the FSA guidelines implementing the Basel Accord on sheet transactions at the balance sheet date.
The contract or capital adequacy, after taking account of collateral and underlying principal amounts indicate the volume of business guarantees received.
outstanding and do not represent amounts at risk.
2008 2007 $million $million Contingent liabilities Guarantees and irrevocable letters of credit 28,051 25,681 Other contingent liabilities 11,494 8,038 39,545 33,719 Commitments Documentary credits and short term trade-related transactions 5,270 6,504 Forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 40 64 Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend: One year and over 14,450 13,888 Less than one year 14,903 18,260 Unconditionally cancellable 42,388 45,279 77,051 83,995 Risk weighted amount: Contingent liabilities 19,625 16,385 Commitments 7,258 7,194 Includes amounts relating to the Groups share of its joint ventures.
com 155 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 48.
Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements The Group enters into collateralised reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements and securities borrowing and lending transactions.
It also receives securities as collateral for commercial lending.
Balance sheet assets 2008 2007 Reverse Reverse repurchase repurchase agreements agreements $million $million Banks 1,578 1,349 Customers 4,833 1,068 6,411 2,417 Balance sheet liabilities 2008 2007 Repurchase Repurchase agreements agreements $million $million Banks 5,053 2,150 Customers 5,177 364 10,230 2,514 Collateral pledged against these liabilities is disclosed in note 23.
Under reverse repurchase and securities borrowing The terms and conditions relating to the collateral pledged typically arrangements, the Group obtains securities on terms which permits the collateral to be sold or repledged, subject to the permit it to repledge or resell the securities to others.
Amounts obligation to return the collateral at the end of the agreement.
on such terms are: 2008 2007 $million $million Securities and collateral which can be repledged or sold at fair value 5,707 2,410 Thereof repledged transferred to others for financing activities, to satisfy commitments under short sale transactions or liabilities under sale and repurchase agreements at fair value 4,030 1,714 49.
Liquidity risk This table analyses assets and liabilities into relevant maturity The Risk Review on pages 43 to 63 explains the Groups groupings based on the remaining period to the contractual and Companys risk management with respect to asset maturity date as at the balance sheet date, on a discounted and liability management.
Contractual maturities do not necessarily reflect actual repayments or cash flow.
Amounts include financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss see note 16 and note 32. incorporates all contractual cash flows, on an undiscounted The Company has financial liabilities of $2,835 million basis, relating to both principal and interest payments.
2007: $1,987 million maturing in five years or more.
Within the More than five years maturity band are undated The following table analyses the contractual cash flows payable financial liabilities of $4,309 million 2007: $5,640 million, all of for the Groups financial liabilities by remaining contractual which relate to subordinated debt, on which interest payments maturities on an undiscounted basis.
The financial liability are not included as this information would not be meaningful.
balances in the table below will not agree to the balances Interest payments on these instruments are included within the reported in the consolidated balance sheet as the table maturities up to five years.
Group 2008 2007 Between Between Between one Three three Between one Three three year and months months and year and More than months months and More than five years or less one year five years five years or less one year five years $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Deposits by banks 28,449 3,612 1,160 205 22,752 1,880 526 133 Customer accounts 208,355 22,792 4,698 1,628 158,937 15,896 3,183 1,888 Financial liabilities at fair value 9,396 2,212 3,438 1,885 3,662 3,407 2,463 1,767 Derivative financial instruments 529,175 251,250 138,445 17,593 420,884 260,597 91,272 22,962 Debt securities in issue 12,572 5,870 4,921 6,405 10,535 10,594 6,242 2,436 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 156 2,353 6,046 20,876 305 1,190 5,476 20,247 Other liabilities 13,258 1,903 170 7,065 10,645 663 437 9,120 Total liabilities 801,361 289,992 158,878 55,657 627,720 294,227 109,599 58,533 Gross loan commitments 40,005 9,871 13,265 1,053 20,207 14,215 3,446 293 The cash flows presented in the above table reflect the cash Derivative financial instruments include those net settled flows which will be contractually payable over the residual derivative contracts in a net liability position, together with the maturity of the instruments.
In practice, however, the liability pay leg of gross settled contracts regardless of whether the instruments behave differently from their contractual terms and overall contract is in an asset or liability position.
The receive leg typically, for short term customer accounts, extend to a longer is not shown in this table and as a result the derivative amounts period than their contractual maturity.
in this table are inflated by their exclusion.
com 157 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 49.
Liquidity risk continued Company 2008 2007 Between Between Between one Three three Between one Three three year and months months and year and More than months months and More than five years or less one year five years five years or less one year five years $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivative financial instruments 26 Debt securities in issue 54 90 1,317 Subordinated liabilities and other 118 723 1,940 15 101 466 2,553 borrowed funds Other liabilities 863 1,089 77 Total liabilities 889 172 813 3,257 1,104 101 466 2,630 50.
Currency risk Foreign exchange risk is managed and measured as set out in foreign exchange rate expectations.
The positions are treated as the Market risk section of the Risk review on pages 59 to 61. long-term embedded exposures, and are not treated as trading positions.
Hedges of the foreign exchange exposures may be Foreign exchange risk arising within the non-trading portfolio, considered in certain limited cases.
At 31 December 2008, excluding structural positions, is minimised by match funding the Group had taken a net investment hedge of $600 million assets and liabilities in the same foreign currency.
2007: $nil million to partly cover its exposure to Korean won.
Structural foreign exchange risks arise from net investments The table below sets out the principal structural foreign in currencies other than US dollars.
The Group has made net exchange exposures net of investment hedges of the investments in Group undertakings in a number of currencies.
Group at 31 December 2008 and 2007: The resulting foreign exchange exposures are managed on an individual basis, and are assessed regularly taking account of 2008 2007 $million $million Korean won 4,469 5,607 Hong Kong dollar 4,985 5,090 Indian rupee 2,369 2,258 Taiwanese dollar 2,112 1,833 Thai baht 991 958 UAE dirham 1,075 808 Singapore dollar 532 734 Chinese yuan 883 727 Pakistani rupee 563 705 Malaysian ringgit 731 674 Indonesian rupiah 428 475 Other 1,985 1,965 21,123 21,834 An analysis has been performed on these exposures to assess The Companys assets and liabilities are predominantly in the impact of a one per cent fall in the US dollar exchange rates US dollars.
It has assets of $1,633 million 2007: $687 million adjusted to incorporate the impacts of correlations between and liabilities of $782 million 2007: $724 million denominated different currencies.
The impact on the positions above would in currencies other than US dollars.
be an increase of $143 million 2007: $91 million.
Changes in the valuations of these positions are taken to reserves.
158 Standard Chartered 2008 51. Credit risk Maximum exposure to credit risk The table below presents the Groups maximum exposure to to customers, up $31 billion, reflecting strong growth in the credit risk of the Groups balance sheet and off-balance sheet Wholesale Banking portfolio, particularly in the financing segment financial instruments at 31 December 2008, before taking into and an increase in derivative instruments of $43 billion as a result account any collateral held or other credit enhancements.
For of increased volumes in the foreign exchange and rates business.
on-balance sheet instruments, the maximum exposure to credit Collateral is held to mitigate the credit risk exposures primarily risk is the carrying amount reported on the balance sheet.
For in respect of loans and advances, and consisting of residential, off-balance sheet instruments, the maximum exposure to credit commercial and industrial properties, securities and other assets risk represents the contractual nominal amounts.
such as plant and machinery.
Further details of the credit risk The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk has increased by mitigation undertaken by the Group is contained within the Risk $85 billion compared to 2007, primarily due to increased lending review on page 49.
2008 2007 $million $million Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss 14,800 22,588 Derivative financial instruments 69,657 26,204 Loans and advances to banks and customers 220,761 189,631 Investment securities 67,749 52,584 Contingent liabilities 39,545 33,719 Undrawn irrevocable standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend 29,353 32,148 441,865 356,874 Excludes equity shares.
As set out in note 19, the Group has entered into synthetic under IAS 32 to enable these balances to be presented on a loan securitisations and synthetic trade receivable securitisations net basis in the financial statements as in the ordinary course on which it has mitigated certain of the credit risks.
In respect of business they are not intended to be settled net.
of derivative financial instruments, $45,896 million 2007: The maximum exposure to credit risk of the Company is $17,282 million is available for offset as a result of master $5,303 million 2007: $2,019 million, which relates to amounts netting agreements which do not, however, meet the criteria owed by subsidiary undertakings.
Summary analysis of the loan portfolio 2008 2007 Loans to Loans to Loans to Loans to customers customers Total customers customers Total Loans to Consumer Wholesale loans to Loans to Consumer Wholesale loans to banks Banking Banking customers banks Banking Banking customers $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Individually impaired loans, net of provisions 18 519 812 1,331 8 517 364 881 Past due but not impaired loans 53 4,391 791 5,182 10 4,589 422 5,011 Neither past due nor impaired loans 47,881 75,754 96,896 172,650 37,662 77,156 74,469 151,625 Total loans and advances 47,952 80,664 98,499 179,163 37,680 82,262 75,255 157,517 Portfolio impairment provision 6 449 202 651 1 412 123 535 47,946 80,215 98,297 178,512 37,679 81,850 75,132 156,982 Of which: Loans and advances held at fair value 1,363 4,334 4,334 2,314 2,716 2,716 The Company has loans neither past due nor impaired of $2,706 million 2007: $2,019 million and has no individually impaired or past due but not impaired loans.
Details of loan loss provisions and individually impaired loans are disclosed in notes 21 and 22. www.
com 159 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 51. Credit risk continued Loans and advances past due but not individually impaired The following table sets out the ageing of loans and advances For Consumer Banking loans, individual impairment provisions which are past due and for which no individual impairment are generally raised at 150 days past due.
A loan is considered to be past due For Wholesale Banking, individual impairment provisions are when the counterparty has failed to make a principal or interest generally raised only when interest and or principal payments payment when contractually due.
Past due does not necessarily are deemed uncollectible.
mean that a loan is impaired.
2008 2007 Loans to Loans to Loans to Loans to Total customers customers Total customers customers Loans to Consumer Wholesale loans to Loans to Consumer Wholesale loans to banks Banking Banking customers banks Banking Banking customers $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Up to 30 days past due 44 3,268 566 3,834 3,559 239 3,798 Between 31 60 days past due 515 75 590 536 38 574 Between 61 90 days past due 283 150 433 10 342 143 485 Between 91 150 days past due 9 325 325 152 2 154 53 4,391 791 5,182 10 4,589 422 5,011 Estimated fair value of collateral held 1,961 185 2,146 4,419 157 4,576 Collateral held against Consumer Banking loans and Wholesale of default measure as set out on page 48 of the Risk review.
Banking loans largely comprises residential and commercial The banding reflects managements segmentation of the property and property and securities respectively.
Where the fair value of collateral held exceeds the outstanding The increase in loans to banks compared to 2007 is as a result loan, any excess is paid back to the customers and is not of the placement of excess liquidity with high quality bank available for offset against other loans.
counterparties, resulting in an improvement in the proportion lent to counterparties within credit grades one to five.
Within Loans and advances neither past due nor impaired loans to customers, the proportion of the loan book falling within The following table sets out an analysis of loans and advances credit grades one to five has decreased from 46 to 45 per cent.
by internal credit grading which are not past due and for which The proportion of grade 12 loans was maintained at one per no individual impairment provision has been raised.
The credit cent of the loans to customer portfolio.
gradings set out in the table below are based on a probability 2008 2007 Loans to Loans to Loans to Loans to customers customers Total customers customers Total Loans to Loans to Consumer Wholesale loans to Consumer Wholesale loans to Total loans and advances neither past due banks Banking Banking customers banks Banking Banking customers nor impaired $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Grades 1 5 at amortised cost 41,864 33,212 41,134 74,346 32,388 32,824 35,210 68,034 at fair value 710 3,888 3,888 1,686 1,789 1,789 Grades 6 8 at amortised cost 4,066 19,969 35,604 55,573 2,602 19,339 26,236 45,575 at fair value 649 239 239 629 784 784 Grades 9 11 at amortised cost 575 21,294 15,400 36,694 349 23,810 10,080 33,890 at fair value 4 207 207 153 153 Grade 12 at amortised cost 13 1,279 424 1,703 8 1,183 217 1,400 at fair value Total at amortised cost 46,518 75,754 92,562 168,316 35,347 77,156 71,743 148,899 Total at fair value 1,363 4,334 4,334 2,315 2,726 2,726 Grand Total 47,881 75,754 96,896 172,650 37,662 77,156 74,469 151,625 Of which: renegotiated loans 682 365 1,047 425 341 766 Renegotiated loans which would otherwise be past due or Loans which are renegotiated to include concessions that the impaired, continue to be accounted for as non-performing but Group would not ordinarily make will usually be impaired and still considered whether past due for impaired until a minimum therefore excluded from this disclosure.
number of payments have been received under the new terms, after which they are considered to be performing loans.
160 Standard Chartered 2008 51. Credit risk continued Collateral and other credit enhancements possessed or called upon During the year, the Group obtained assets by taking possession are excess of the outstanding loan balance they are returned of collateral or calling upon other credit enhancements such to the borrower.
Certain of the equity securities acquired continue as guarantees as detailed in the table below.
Repossessed to be held by the Group for investment purposes and are classified properties are sold in an orderly fashion.
Where the proceeds as available-for-sale, and the related loan derecognised.
2008 2007 Consumer Wholesale Consumer Wholesale Banking Banking Total Banking Banking Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Property 150 1 151 135 69 204 Debt securities and equity shares 2 4 6 Guarantees 28 28 35 5 40 Other 54 1 55 9 58 67 234 6 240 179 132 311 Debt securities and treasury bills Debt securities and treasury bills are analysed as follows: 2008 2007 Debt Treasury Debt Treasury securities bills Total securities bills Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Impaired securities 185 106 291 71 17 88 Impairment provisions 158 1 159 54 2 56 Net impaired securities 27 105 132 17 15 32 Securities neither past due nor impaired 57,405 19,315 76,720 55,063 15,047 70,110 57,432 19,420 76,852 55,080 15,062 70,142 Of which: Held at fair value 6,396 2,707 9,103 14,163 3,395 17,558 Movements in provisions on impaired securities are disclosed in The Company has $925 million of debt securities, issued by a note 23.
The impaired debt securities largely include the Groups subsidiary undertaking.
holdings of ABS CDOs, on which a $41 million 2007: $35 Securities neither past due nor impaired million impairment charge and other writedowns of $49 million The following table analyses debt securities and treasury bills 2007: $87 million were taken in 2008.
Further details of these which are neither past due or impaired by external credit rating.
writedowns are set out on page 57 of the Risk review.
The standard credit ratings used by the Group are those used Collateral is held against impaired securities and primarily consist by Standard & Poors or their equivalent.
Debt securities held of properties.
The undiscounted fair value of collateral held which have a short-term rating are reported against the longrelating to impaired securities is estimated at $22 million 2007: term rating of the issuer.
For securities which are unrated, the $24 million.
Group applies an internal credit rating as described under Loans and Advances.
Where the fair value of collateral held exceeds the outstanding securities obligations, any excess is paid back to the customers and is not available for offset against other securities obligations.
Using internal credit ratings, $3,525 million 2007: $2,606 million of these securities are considered to be investment grade and $445 million 2007: $676 million sub-investment grade.
com 161 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 52.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities The following table summarises the carrying amounts and fair values of those financial assets and liabilities not presented on the Groups balance sheet at fair value.
2008 2007 Book amount Fair value Book amount Fair value $million $million $million $million Assets Cash and balances at central banks 24,161 24,161 10,175 10,175 Loans and advances to banks 46,583 45,855 35,365 35,316 Loans and advances to customers 174,178 170,410 154,266 153,828 Investment securities 7,493 6,729 2,819 2,779 Liabilities Deposits by banks 31,909 31,713 25,880 25,844 Customer accounts 234,008 230,558 179,760 179,694 Debt securities in issue 23,447 23,097 27,137 27,072 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 16,986 13,903 15,740 15,029 The following sets out the Groups basis of establishing fair far from the turmoil brought about by the dislocation and values of the financial instruments shown above and those disruption in financial markets.
Approximately one-third of the financial assets classified as available-for-sale and financial portfolio reprices within one month, and over 50 per cent assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit and loss reprices within 12 months.
as disclosed within notes 15, 16, 18, 19, 23, 30, 31, 32 and Investment securities 33.
The Groups basis for establishing the fair value of financial Investment securities with observable market prices, including assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss and debt and equity securities, are fair valued using that information.
of derivatives is set out in note 1.
Debt securities that do not have observable market data are fair Cash and balances at central banks valued by either discounting cash flows using the prevailing The fair value of cash and balances at central banks is their market rates for debts with a similar credit risk and remaining carrying amounts.
maturity, or using quoted market prices for securities with similar credit, maturity and yield characteristics.
Loans and advances to banks The fair value of floating rate placements and overnight deposits Deposits and borrowings is their carrying amounts.
The estimated fair value of fixed The estimated fair value of deposits with no stated maturity is the interest bearing deposits is based on discounted cash flows amount repayable on demand.
The estimated fair value of fixed using the prevailing money-market rates for debts with a similar interest bearing deposits and other borrowings without quoted credit risk and remaining maturity.
market prices is based on discounting cash flows using the prevailing market rates for debts with a similar credit risk and Loans and advances to customers remaining maturity.
Loans and advances are presented net of provisions for impairment.
The estimated fair value of loans and advances Debt securities in issue, subordinated liabilities and other represents the discounted amount of future cash flows expected borrowed funds to be received, including assumptions relating to prepayment The aggregate fair values are calculated based on quoted rates and where appropriate, credit spreads.
For those notes where quoted market prices are flows are discounted at current market rates to determine fair not available, a discounted cash flow model is used based on a value.
The Groups loan portfolio is well diversified by geography current market related yield curve appropriate for the remaining and industry and is in markets that have had little contagion so term to maturity.
Restatement of prior periods Acquisitions In the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2007, the 2007 balance sheet amounts restated, with a corresponding fair value amounts in relation to the acquisitions of Pembroke, adjustment to goodwill, reducing goodwill on acquisitions by $6 Harrison Lovegrove and A Brain contained some provisional million.
The adjustments primarily relate to a reassessment of the balances.
During the year to 31 December 2008, certain of value property, plant and equipment, together with associated these balances have been revised.
In accordance with IFRS 3 deferred tax.
The income statement for 2007 has not been Business Combinations, the adjustments to the provisional restated, because any effect is immaterial.
balances have been made as at the date of acquisition and the As reported at Restated at 2007 Adjustment 2007 $million $million $million Goodwill and intangible assets 6,380 6 6,374 Property, plant and equipment 2,887 5 2,892 Deferred tax assets 559 1 560 Other balance sheet adjustments A re-presentation was made within the Groups balance sheet at 31 December 2007 in respect of the current tax creditor and deferred tax asset to show the current tax and deferred tax asset and liability separately.
Details of the re-presentation are set out below: As reported at Restated at 2007 Re-presentation 2007 $million $million $million Current tax assets 633 633 Current tax liabilities 185 633 818 Deferred tax assets 560 33 593 Deferred tax liabilities 33 33 Company cash flow statement The Company cash flow statement has been represented to appropriately identify the purchase of own shares and the exercise of share options through ESOP.
The net impact of the representation is set out below: As reported at Restated at 2007 Re-presentation 2007 $million $million $million Change in operating assets 111 24 87 Net cash from operating activities 875 24 899 Purchase of own shares 15 15 Exercise of share options through ESOP 39 39 Net cash from financing activities 142 24 166 54.
Special purpose entities The Group uses Special Purpose Entities SPEs in the normal SPEs are consolidated into the Groups financial statements course of business across a variety of activities.
SPEs are where the Group bears the majority of the residual risk or established for specific limited purposes and take a number of reward.
Most of the Groups consolidated SPEs are in respect of legal forms.
The main types of activities for which the Group the Groups securitised portfolios of residential mortgages see utilises SPEs cover synthetic credit default swaps for portfolio note 19. management purposes, managed investment funds including The total assets of unconsolidated SPEs in which the Group has specialised principal finance funds and structured finance.
an interest are set out below.
2008 2007 Maximum Total assets exposure Total assets Maximum exposure $million $million $million $million Portfolio management vehicles 1,694 252 1,279 176 Principal Finance Funds 898 124 150 15 Global Liquidity Fund 1,325 251 AEB Funds 2,487 4 Structured Finance 290 290 5,369 380 3,044 442 Committed capital for these funds is $375 million 2007: $150 million of which $124 million 2007: $15 million has been drawn down.
com 163 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 54.
Special purpose entities continued Since December 2007, the Group has had no capital investment security.
Correspondingly, the SPEs write down the notes issued in Whistlejacket Capital Limited, a structured investment vehicle by an equal amount of the losses incurred, in reverse order of SIV previously sponsored by the Group, which entered into seniority.
All the funding is committed for the life of these vehicles administration on 11 February 2008.
Other than the relationship and hence the Group has no indirect exposure in respect of the it had with Whistlejacket, the Group has no exposures or vehicles liquidity position.
commitments to SIVs or SIV-lites.
The remainder of the Groups exposure represents committed For the purposes of portfolio management, the Group has or invested capital in unleveraged investment funds.
Standard entered into synthetic credit default swaps with note-issuing Chartered Bank was the Investment Manager and Distributor SPEs.
The referenced assets remain on the Groups balance of the US Dollar Liquidity Fund, the single sub fund of sheet as the credit risk is not transferred to these SPEs.
The Standard Chartered Global Liquidity Funds p. l. c. which Groups exposure arises from a the capitalised start-up costs closed on 7 July 2008. in respect of the swap vehicles and b interest in the first loss Following the acquisition of AEB, the Group is also the notes and investment in a minimal portion of the mezzanine investment manager for a number of AEBs investment funds, and senior rated notes issued by the note issuing SPEs.
The although the Groups investment in such funds represents proceeds of the notes issuance are typically invested in AAAapproximately 0.2 per cent of those funds total assets.
rated Government securities, which are used to collateralise the SPEs swap obligations to the Group, and to repay the principal The Group has reputational risk in respect of certain portfolio to investors at maturity.
The SPEs reimburse the Group on management vehicles and investment funds either because the actual losses incurred, through the realisation of the collateral Group is the arranger and lead manager or because the SPEs have Standard Chartered branding.
Post balance sheet events On 13 November 2008, the Group announced that it had and institutional brokerage business, from JPMorgan Cazenove.
entered an agreement to acquire 100 per cent of Cazenove Asia The acquisition completed on 30 January 2009.
The initial Limited, a leading Asia equity capital markets, corporate finance accounting for this acquisition has not yet been fully completed.
Related party transactions Directors and officers Directors emoluments Details of directors pay and benefits and interests in shares are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 89 to 92.
IAS 24 Related party disclosures requires the following additional information for key management compensation.
Key management comprises non-executive directors and members of the Group Management Committee, which includes all executive directors.
2008 2007 $million $million Salaries, allowances and benefits in kind 20 19 Pension contributions 6 6 Bonuses paid or receivable 18 23 Share based payments 25 22 69 70 Transactions with directors, officers and others At 31 December 2008, the total amounts to be disclosed under the Companies Act 1985 the Act and the Listing Rules of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange Limited HK Listing Rules about loans to directors and officers were as follows: 2008 2007 Number $000 Number $000 Directors 2 635 1 14 Officers 3 7,898 4 7,090 For this disclosure, the term Officers means the members of the Group Management Committee, other than those who are directors of Standard Chartered PLC, and the company secretary.
Mr Sunil Mittal, appointed as an independent non-executive Open ended investment company director of Standard Chartered PLC with effect from 1 August Standard Chartered Global Liquidity Funds p. l. c. was an open- 2007, is Chairman and Group CEO of the Bharti Enterprises ended investment company which was closed on 7 July 2008.
Due to his significant voting power in the Bharti At 31 December 2008 the Group held an investment in shares Enterprises Group, it is a related party of Standard Chartered of the fund of $nil million 31 December 2007: $251 million.
As at 31 December 2008, the Group had loans to the Company Bharti Enterprises Group of $137 million 2007: $123 million, The Company has received $105 million 2007: $95 million guarantees of $39 million 2007: $47 million and foreign of interest income from Standard Chartered Bank.
The exchange deals with a notional value of $103 million Company issues debt externally and lends the proceeds to 2007: $52 million.
At 31 December 2008, it had loans to As at 31 December 2008, Standard Chartered Bank had and debt instruments issued by Standard Chartered Bank created a charge over $24 million 2007: $24 million of cash of $3,036 million 2007: $343 million, loans of $1,724 million assets in favour of the independent trustees of its employer 2007: $77 million to Standard Chartered Holdings Limited, financial retirement benefit schemes.
and loans of $1 million 2007: $1 million to other subsidiaries.
Other than as disclosed in this Annual Report and Accounts, In 2006, the Company licensed intellectual property rights there were no other transactions, arrangements or agreements related to the Companys main brands to an indirect wholly outstanding for any director, connected person or officer of the owned subsidiary, Standard Chartered Strategic Brand Company which have to be disclosed under the Act, the rules Management Limited SCSBM, the income from which is held of the UK Listing Authority or the HK Listing Rules.
on the Companys balance sheet and released over the term of licence, which expires in 2015.
At 31 December 2008, Joint ventures $271 million 2007: $311 million has been included as deferred The Group has loans and advances to PT Bank Permata Tbk income in the Company balance sheet in relation to this licence.
totalling $5 million at 31 December 2008 2007: $4 million, and deposits of $16 million 2007: $7 million.
The Company has an agreement with Standard Chartered Bank that in the event of Standard Chartered Bank defaulting on its The Group has loans and advances with STCI totalling debt coupon interest payments, where the terms of such debt $12 million 2007: $nil million.
requires it, the Company shall issue shares as settlement for Associates non-payment of the coupon interest.
On 2 July 2008 the Group acquired a further 6.16 per cent equity stake in Asia Commercial Bank including convertible bonds for $211 million to bring the total shareholding to 15 per cent.
com 165 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 57.
Significant accounting estimates and judgements In determining the carrying amounts of certain assets and Subsequent to initial recognition, some of the Groups financial liabilities, the Group makes assumptions of the effects of instruments are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value uncertain future events on those assets and liabilities at the either reported within the income statement or within equity until balance sheet date.
The Groups estimates and assumptions the instrument is sold or becomes impaired.
Details of the type are based on historical experience and expectation of future and classification of the Groups financial instruments are set events and are reviewed periodically.
This disclosure excludes out in notes 15 and 17 to the accounts and the accounting uncertainty over future events and judgements in respect of policy set out in note 1 to the accounts.
In addition to these measuring financial instruments.
Further information about key instruments, the carrying value of a financial instrument carried assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of at amortised cost that is the hedged item in a qualifying fair estimation uncertainty, are set out in the notes.
value hedge relationship is adjusted by the fair value gain or loss attributable to the hedged risk.
Loan loss provisioning The Groups loan loss provisions are established to recognise The fair values of quoted financial instruments in active markets incurred impairment losses either on specific loan assets or are based on current prices.
If the market for a financial within a portfolio of loans and receivables.
instrument is not active, and for unlisted securities, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques.
These Impairment losses for specific loan assets are assessed either on include the use of recent arms length transactions, discounted an individual or on a portfolio basis.
Individual impairment losses cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation are determined as the difference between the carrying value and techniques commonly used by market participants.
the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the loans original effective interest rate.
Impairment losses Where representative prices are unreliable because of illiquid determined on a portfolio basis are assessed based on the markets, the determination of fair value may require estimation probability of default inherent within the portfolio of impaired of certain parameters, which are calibrated against industry loans or receivables.
standards and observable market data, or the use of valuation models that are based on observable market data.
Estimating the amount and timing of future recoveries involves significant judgement, and considers the level of arrears as The fair value for the majority of the Groups financial instruments well as the assessment of matters such as future economic is based on observable market prices or derived from observable conditions and the value of collateral, for which there may market parameters.
The most significant element of Group not be a readily accessible market.
assets in which observable prices are not available relates to certain instruments held within the asset backed securities Loan losses that have been incurred but have not been portfolio.
At 31 December 2008, assets with a market value separately identified at the balance sheet date are determined of $2.3 billion were held in respect of which there was no on a portfolio basis, which takes into account past loss observable market data, of which $1.8 billion was held at experience as a result of uncertainties arising from the economic amortised cost.
For these instruments, changing one or more of environment, and defaults based on portfolio trends.
Actual the assumptions used to reasonably possible alternatives would losses identified could differ significantly from the impairment not significantly change their fair value.
provisions reported as a result of uncertainties arising from the economic environment.
Equity investments that do not have an observable market price are fair valued by applying various valuation techniques, such as Fair value of financial instruments earnings multiples, net assets multiples, discounted cash flows, Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, and industry valuation benchmarks.
These techniques are or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an generally applied prior to any initial public offering, after which arms length transaction.
an observable market price becomes available.
Disposal of such All financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value, which investments are generally by market trades or private sales.
is normally the transaction price.
In certain circumstances, the initial fair value may be based on a valuation technique which may lead to the recognition of profits or losses at the time of initial recognition.
However, these profits or losses can only be recognised when the valuation technique used is based solely on observable market inputs.
Significant accounting estimates and judgements continued Goodwill impairment Taxes An annual assessment is made, as set out in note 26, as to Determining income tax provisions involves judgement on the tax whether the current carrying value of goodwill is impaired.
Deferred tax is recognised on Detailed calculations are performed based on discounting tax losses not yet used and on temporary differences where it is expected pre-tax cash flows of the relevant cash generating probable that there will be taxable revenue against which these units and discounting these at an appropriate discount rate, can be offset.
Management has made judgements as to the the determination of which requires the exercise of judgement.
probability of future taxable revenues being generated against which tax losses will be available for offset.
Acquired intangible assets Acquired intangible assets are those that derive their value from Provisions for liabilities and charges contractual customer relationships or that can be separated and sold, The Group receives legal claims against it in the normal course and are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Management has made judgements as to the customer relationships, core deposits, brands and acquired licences.
likelihood of any claim succeeding in making provisions.
The time The valuation and estimated useful lives of customer relationships, of concluding legal claims is uncertain, as is the amount of possible core deposits and brands is dependent on a number of assumptions outflow of economic benefits.
Timing and cost ultimately depends and judgements, such as expected cash flows, customer attrition, on the due process in respective legal jurisdictions.
royalty rates and applicable costs, variations in which could produce Share based payments different values and or useful lives.
Equity-settled share awards are recognised as an expense For example, if the attrition rates per annum were doubled based on their fair value at date of grant.
The fair value of equityor halved the value of the customer relationships acquired settled share options is estimated through the use of option in the acquisitions in 2008 would decrease by approximately valuation models which require inputs such as the risk-free $12 million or increase by approximately $12 million.
interest rate, expected dividends, expected volatility and the expected option life and is expensed over the vesting period.
Acquired licences are valued at their purchase price and Some of the inputs used, such as the expected option life, are amortised over the period of the licence.
not market observable and are based on estimates derived from Pensions available data, such as employee exercise behaviour.
The Actuarial assumptions are made in valuing future defined benefit models utilised, such as the binomial option pricing model, are pension obligations as set out in note 37 and are updated intended to value options traded in active markets.
The principal assumptions relate to the rate of options issued by the Group, however, have a number of inflation and the discount rate.
The assumed rate of inflation features that make them incomparable to such traded options.
affects the rate at which salaries grow and therefore the size of Using different input estimates or models could produce different the pensions that employees receive on retirement.
The discount option values, which would result in the recognition of a higher rate is equal to the yield on high-quality corporate bonds which or lower expense.
For example, if the volatility assumption was have a term to maturity approximating that of the related liability, increased by five per cent or decreased by five per cent, the and is potentially subject to significant variation.
As a result, there fair values for options granted under the Sharesave schemes in is uncertainty that these assumptions will continue in the future.
2008 would increase by approximately 0.28 for three year For example, if the discount rate for the UK fund increased by grants, and by 0.33 for five year grants or decrease by 25 basis points, the liability would reduce by approximately approximately 0.28 for three year grants, and by 0.33 for $46 million, and vice versa.
Whilst changes in other assumptions five year grants.
would have an impact, the effect would not be as significant.
com 167 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Notes to the financial statements continued 58.
Recently issued accounting pronouncements The following pronouncements relevant and applicable to the The full impact of these IFRSs and IFRIC Interpretations is Group and Company were issued as at 31 December 2008 but currently being assessed by the Group: none of these have effective dates for periods beginning after 31 December pronouncements are expected to result in any material 2008.
The use of IFRSs and certain IFRIC Interpretations that adjustments to the financial statements.
have yet to be endorsed by the European Union is not permitted.
Those IFRSs and IFRIC Interpretations listed below that have been endorsed by the EU, and whose use is therefore permitted, have not been applied in preparing these financial statements.
Latest effective date for the Pronouncement Description of impact Group and Company IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRS 8 supersedes IAS 14 Segment Reporting and requires 1 January 2009 the reporting of operating segments on the same basis as is used internally for evaluating performance.
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty IFRIC 13 clarifies that consideration received for the sale of 1 January 2009 Programmes services for which customer loyalty awards are awarded is allocated between the service delivered and the award credit, based on the fair value of the credit awarded.
IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs IAS 23 has been revised to remove the option to expense 1 January 2009 borrowing costs incurred in respect of the construction and development of qualifying assets.
Such costs will now be capitalised as a part of the cost of the asset.
IAS 1 Revised Presentation of IAS 1 Revised provides the option to either disclose all non-owner 1 January 2009 Financial Statements changes in equity in one statement of Comprehensive Income or continue to disclose two statements.
The standard also requires an additional balance sheet to be presented at the beginning of the earliest comparative period when a change in accounting policy is applied retrospectively or a retrospective restatement is made.
Amendment to IAS 27 Consolidated This amendment changes the treatment for part disposals, both 1 January 2010 and Separate Financial Statements when control is retained which is accounted for as an equity transaction, generating no profit or loss in the income statement and when control is lost where the residual holding is measured at fair value with any changes reflected in income.
IFRS 3 Revised Business IFRS 3 Revised requires acquisition costs to be expensed and not 1 January 2010 Combinations capitalised: an estimate of cash contingent consideration to be made at the date of acquisition, with any future changes recognised in income: provides the option to recognise 100 per cent of the goodwill of an acquired entity in a partial acquisition.
The Standard can be applied early, on a prospective basis, for annual periods beginning on or after 30 June 2007.
Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based The amendments clarify the definition of vesting conditions and 1 January 2009 Payment: Vesting Conditions and the accounting treatment of cancellations by employees, whereby Cancellations such cancellations will immediately result in the recognition of the amount of the expense that would otherwise have been recognised over the remainder of the vesting period.
Amendment to IAS 32 Financial This amendment is in respect of the balance sheet classification 1 January 2009 Instruments: Presentation of puttable financial instruments and obligations arising only on liquidation.
Some financial instruments that currently meet the definition of a financial liability may be classified as equity if they represent the last residual interest in the net assets of an entity.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment The amendment clarifies that foreign exchange risk differences 1 January 2010 in a Foreign Operation between a parents functional currency and those of subsidiaries can be hedged and the hedging instruments can be held by any entity or entities within the Group.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash IFRIC 17 clarifies the timing of recognising a liability for dividends, 1 January 2009 Assets for Owners the value to be used at initial measurement i. e. the fair value of net assets given.
It states that a profit or loss impact would arise should the net assets distributed and dividend payable be different from each other.
1 January 2010 This IFRS or IFRIC Interpretation has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
Subject to endorsement of the European Union the Group has not yet made a final decision as to whether it will apply in the 2009 financial statements those pronouncements marked in the table above.
UK and Hong Kong accounting requirements As required by the HK Listing Rules, an explanation of the Financial Reporting Standards.
As set out in note 58, EU differences in accounting practices between EU endorsed IFRS endorsed IFRS may differ from IFRSs published by the and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards is required to be International Accounting Standards Board if a standard has disclosed.
There would be no significant differences had these not been endorsed by the EU.
accounts been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong www.
com 169 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review
