Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report state whether they have been prepared in accordance and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and with applicable law and regulations.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under the Company will continue in business.
that law they are required to prepare the Group financial The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU records that disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Company the financial position of the Company and enable them to financial statements on the same basis.
ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies The Group and Company financial statements are required Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the the financial position of the Group and Company and the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and performance of the Group for that period: the Companies other irregularities.
Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial responsible for preparing a Report of the directors, Directors statements giving a true and fair view are references to remuneration report and the Corporate governance statement their achieving a fair presentation.
that comply with that law and those regulations.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity statements, the directors are required to: of the corporate and financial information included on the select suitable accounting policies and then apply Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the them consistently: preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Directors responsibility statement The directors confirm to the best of their knowledge: 1. the financial statements prepared in accordance with 2. the management reports, which are incorporated into IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the Report of the directors, include a fair review of the the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the development and performance of the business and the Company and the undertakings included in the position of the Company and the undertakings included in consolidation as a whole: and the consolidation as a whole, together with the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
By order of the board R H Meddings Group finance director 3 March 2009 94 Standard Chartered 2008
