Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information Glossary Early-stage Distributions Seed: Payments to investors after the realisation of investments of the partnership.
Financing provided to allow a business concept to be developed, perhaps involving production of prototypes and additional research, Divestments or realisations or exits prior to bringing a product to market.
Exits of investments, usually via a trade sale or an IPO Initial Public Start-up: Offering on a stock market.
Financing provided to companies for the use in product development and initial marketing.
Companies may be in the process of being set up Draw downs calls or may have been in business for a short time, but have not sold their product commercially.
Payments to the partnership by investors in order to finance investments.
Funds are drawn down from investors on a deal-by-deal basis.
Other early-stage: Financing provided to companies that have completed the product Fund of funds development stage and require further funds to initiate commercial manufacturing and sales.
They will not yet be generating profit.
Private equity funds whose principal activity consists of investing in other private equity funds.
Investors in funds of funds can thereby increase their level of diversification.
Late-stage Gearing, debt equity ratio or leverage the level of a companys borrowings Expansion financing: as a percentage of shareholder funds.
Capital provided for the growth and expansion of a company which is breaking even or even trading profitably.
Funds may be used to finance Hurdle rate increased production capacity, market or product development and or provide additional working capital.
Capital provided for turnaround Arrangement that caps the downside risk for investors.
It allows investors to situations is also included in this category.
get preferential access to the profits of the partnership.
In the absence of reaching the hurdle return, general partners will not receive a share of the Management Buy-Out MBO : profit carried interest.
A hurdle rate of 10% means that the private equity Funds provided to enable current operating management and investors fund needs to achieve a return of at least 10% before the profits are shared to acquire an existing business.
according to the carried interest arrangement.
Management Buy-In MBI : Limited partnership Funds provided to enable a manager or group of managers from outside the company to buy into the company.
Most private equity firms structure their funds as limited partnerships.
Investors represent the limited partners and private equity managers the general partners.
Follow-on investment A company which has previously received private equity.
Realisation The sale of an investment.
Secondary purchase Purchase of existing shares in a company from another private equity firm, Secondary market or from other shareholders.
The secondary market enables institutional investors to sell their stakes in a private equity partnership before it is wound up.
Public to private Purchase of the share capital of a company quoted on a stock exchange Trade sale with the intention of fide-listing the company and taking it private.
Sale of the equity share of an investee company to another company.
General Terms Turnaround Carried interest carry A loss making company which can be successfully transformed into a Carried interest or simply carry represents the share of a private equity profit maker.
funds profit usually 20% that will accrue to the general partners.
Further information on our website Committed funds or raised funds or committed capital Capital committed by investors.
This will be requested or drawn down by private www.
com equity managers on a deal-by-deal basis.
This amount is different from invested funds for two reasons.
Firstly, most partnerships will invest only between 80% and 95% of committed funds.
Second, one has to deduct the annual management fee which is supposed to cover the cost of operation of a fund.
SVG Capital plc 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
