Company summary The Company SVG Capital plc is a private equity investor and fund management business listed on the London Stock Exchange.
SVG Capital plc carries on business as an investment trust.
Investment trust companies are able to switch investments without liability for capital gains tax.
This, together with the advantages of professional management and spread of risk, makes investment trusts a valuable investment medium.
The Company carries on business as an investment company within the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
In order to obtain exemption from capital gains tax the Company conducts itself with a view to continuing as an approved investment trust for the purposes of Section 842 of the United Kingdom Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 as amended.
The Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
Information for shareholders The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The stock exchange code for the shares is SVI.
The price of the shares is quoted daily in The Financial Times, The Daily Telegraph and The Times.
The net asset value is calculated at 30 June and 31 December each year following an extensive valuation procedure.
Due to the nature of the Companys investments, it is not practical to publish the net asset value on a more frequent basis.
A factsheet containing information including the diversification of the portfolio and the Companys largest investments is published quarterly and is available on request from the Company Secretary.
Capital gains tax information For disposals of shares in the 2008 2009 tax year, the annual capital gains after adjusting for indexation and taper relief of private individuals in excess of 9,600 are assessed for capital gains tax at the individuals marginal tax rate.
Capital gains on shares disposed of by individuals may be eligible for taper relief.
The taper reduces the amount of a chargeable gain according to how long the asset has been held for periods after 5 April 1998.
Where shares were acquired before 6 April 1998, the capital gain will also be reduced by indexation allowance for the period up to April 1998, but not thereafter.
For the benefit of those shareholders who acquired their holdings in exchange for their interests in Schroder Ventures funds, the acquisition cost of the shares for capital gains tax purposes based upon initial dealings on 23 May 1996 was as follows: Each ordinary share of 1.00: 1.915 Individual Savings Account Schroder maxi ISA plan The Schroder ISA offers investors: lump sum investments in the ordinary shares of the Company from a minimum of 1,000 to a maximum of 7,200 in the current tax year: a regular investment option from a minimum of 50 per month: competitive charges: the option to reinvest income: and the option to include other trusts.
If you would like further information about the Schroder maxi ISA, please contact the Secretary of the Company at 31 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QA or call Schroder Investor Services on freephone 0800 718 777.
Registrar services Communications with shareholders are mailed to the address held on the share register.
Any notifications and enquiries relating to registered share holdings, including a change of address or other amendment should be directed to Equiniti Registrars at 1st floor, 34 South Gyle Crescent, South Gyle Business Park, Edinburgh EH12 9EB.
The helpline telephone number of Equiniti Registrars is 0871 384 2776 calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephone providers charges may vary.
Equiniti Limited maintains a web-based enquiry service for shareholders.
Currently the Shareview site address below contains information available on public registers.
Shareholders will be invited to enter their name, shareholder reference account number and post code and will be able to view information on their own holding.
SVG Capital plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
