Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information Notice of Annual General Meeting This notice of meeting contains important information and requires your attention.
If you are in any doubt as to what action to take you should consult with an appropriate adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 if you are in the UK or, if you are not in the UK, with another appropriately authorised financial adviser.
If you have sold or transferred your shares in SVG Capital plc, please give this letter and the accompanying documents to the stockbroker or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
NOTICE is hereby given that the thirteenth Annual General Meeting of SVG Capital plc will be held at 12.00 noon on Wednesday, 6 May 2009 at 61 Aldwych, London, WC2B 4AE to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, of which resolutions 1 to 10 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and resolutions 11 and 12 will be proposed as Special Resolutions: 1.
To receive the Report of the Directors and the audited Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 together with the Auditors report on those accounts.
To approve the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2008.
To elect Lynn Fordham as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Charles Sinclair as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Denis Raeburn as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Anthony Habgood as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Edgar Koning as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors of the Company.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors of the Company.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: That, in substitution for all other subsisting authorities, to the extent unused, the Board be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 : a up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,104,079 equivalent to 1% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 1 April 2009 in connection with the SVG Capital plc Executive Share Option Plan 2001 and the SVG Capital 2007 Performance Share Plan: and b up to an aggregate nominal amount of 103,469,308 equivalent to one-third of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 1 April 2009, which authorities shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2010 unless previously revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution: That, subject to the passing of Resolution 10 above, in substitution for all other subsisting authorities, to the extent unused, the Board be and is hereby empowered, pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985, to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the said Act for cash, pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 10 above and or where such allotment is treated as an allotment of equity securities under Section 94 3A of the said Act, as if sub-section 1 of Section 89 of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,104,079 equivalent to 1% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 1 April 2009 in connection with the SVG Capital plc Executive Share Option Plan 2001 and the SVG Capital 2007 Performance Share Plan: b to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open offer or any other pre-emptive offer in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of ordinary shareholders on a fixed record date are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Board may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising in any overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever : and c to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraphs a and b above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 15,520,396 equivalent to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 1 April 2009, and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2010 unless previously revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
SVG Capital plc 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 12.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution: That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the said Act of ordinary shares of 1.00 each in the capital of the Company Shares, provided that: a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 46,530,148 equivalent to 14.99% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 1 April 2009 : b the minimum price which may be paid for a Share is 1.00: c the maximum price which may be paid for a Share is an amount equal to the greater of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for a Share taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Share is purchased and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade in the shares of that class and the highest then current independent bid for the shares of that class on the London Stock Exchange: d purchases may only be made pursuant to this authority if the Shares are at the date of the proposed purchase trading on the London Stock Exchange at a discount to the net asset value: e the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2010 unless previously revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting : and f the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
Registered Ofce: 31 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QA By Order of the Board Schroder Investment Management Limited Company Secretary 7 April 2009 Explanatory notes and additional information 1.
Ordinary shareholders or their duly appointed representatives are entitled to attend, speak and vote at the meeting.
An ordinary shareholder entitled to attend, speak and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the meeting to represent you.
Forms appointing proxies must be completed and returned to the Companys registrar, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZR not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
To appoint more than one proxy, please contact Equiniti Limited, who will be able to advise you how to do this, on 0871 384 2776.
Calls from within the UK are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other providers costs may vary.
Completion and return of a form of proxy, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction as described in paragraphs 6 to 9 below will not preclude a member from attending and voting in person.
In case of a member which is a company, the proxy form must be executed under its seal or signed on its behalf by an officer of the company or an attorney for the company.
Any power of attorney or any other authority under which the proxy form is signed or a duly certificated copy of such power or authority must be included with the proxy form.
On a vote by show of hands, every ordinary shareholder who is present in person has one vote and every duly appointed proxy who is present has one vote.
On a poll vote, every ordinary shareholder who is present in person or by way of proxy has one vote for every share of which he she is a holder.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law, which means that the vote will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or against the resolution.
If an ordinary shareholder does not specify how he she wants the proxy to vote on the particular resolutions, the proxy may vote or abstain as he she sees fit.
A proxy may also abstain as he she sees fit on any other business which properly comes before the Annual General Meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting services provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
SVG Capital plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information 9.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
If two or more ordinary shareholders jointly hold shares in the Company, each shareholder may attend, speak and vote at the meeting, appoint a proxy or give voting instructions.
However, if more than one joint holder votes, whether in person or by proxy, only the vote of the senior joint holder will count.
Seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members in respect of the joint holding.
If an ordinary shareholder submits more than one valid proxy appointment, the appointment received last before the latest time for receipt of proxies will take precedence.
Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person that has been nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights nominated persons does not have a right to appoint a proxy.
However, a nominated person may, under an agreement with the registered shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
Alternatively, if a nominated person does not have such a right, or does not wish to exercise it, he she may have a right under any such agreement to give instructions to the registered shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
In view of the uncertainty regarding the application of certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to multiple corporate representatives, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that: i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company has specified that only those Shareholders registered in the Register of members of the Company at 6.00 p. m. on 4 May 2009 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of Shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the Register of members after 6.00 p. m. on 4 May 2009 shall be disregarded in determining the right of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
If the meeting is adjourned, such entitlement is determined by reference to the Register of members at 6.00 p. m. on the day two days preceding the date fixed for the adjourned meeting.
As at 1 April 2009, 310,407,923 ordinary shares of 1.00 each were in issue, of which none was held as a treasury share.
Accordingly, the total number of voting rights of the Company as at 1 April 2009 was 310,407,923.
As at the date of this Notice, the Company holds no treasury shares.
Copies of the terms of appointment of the non-executive Directors and a statement of all transactions of each Director and of his family interests in the shares of the Company, will be available for inspection by any member of the Company at the registered office of the Company, 31 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QA, during normal business hours on any weekday English public holidays excepted and by any person attending the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
None of the Directors has a contract of service with the Company.
The profile of each Director offering himself for election and or re-election is set out on pages 26 and 27 of the Annual Report and Accounts of SVG Capital plc for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Shareholders may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of Annual General Meeting or any related documents to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than expressly stated.
The business of the meeting is of a routine nature for a listed company and the Directors recommend that you vote in favour of each of the resolutions.
Further information about the subject matter of the resolutions can be found in the Directors report on pages 28 to 31 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2008.
SVG Capital plc 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
