214032 Temple Bar pp27-pp52 20 2 09 20:53 Page 50 Appendix to the notice of meeting EXPLANATORY NOTES OF PRINCIPAL CHANGES TO THE COMPANYS ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION 1.
Form of resolution The Current Articles contain a provision that, where for any purpose an ordinary resolution is required, a special or extraordinary resolution is also effective and that, where an extraordinary resolution is required, a special resolution is also effective.
This provision is being amended as the concept of extraordinary resolutions has not been retained under the Companies Act 2006.
Votes of members Under the Companies Act 2006 proxies are entitled to vote on a show of hands whereas under the Current Articles proxies are only entitled to vote on a poll.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share held by the shareholder.
Multiple corporate representatives may be appointed but if they purport to exercise their rights in different ways, then the power is treated as not being exercised.
The New Articles reflect these new provisions.
Age of directors on appointment The Current Articles contain a provision requiring a directors age to be disclosed if he has attained the age of 70 years or more in the notice convening a meeting at which the director is proposed to be elected or re-elected.
Such provision could now fall foul of the Employment Equality Age Regulations 2006 and so has been removed from the New Articles.
Conflicts of interest The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors general duties which largely codify the existing law, but with some changes.
Under the Companies Act 2006, from 1 October 2008 a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The Companies Act 2006 also allows the articles to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The New Articles include provisions giving the directors authority to approve such situations to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the companys success.
The directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
Notice of board meetings Under the Current Articles, when a director is abroad he can request that notice of directors meetings are sent to him at a specified address and if he does not do so he is not entitled to receive notice while he is away.
This provision has been removed, as modern communications mean that there may be no particular obstacle to giving notice to a director who is abroad.
It has been replaced with a more general provision that a director is treated as having waived his entitlement to notice, unless he supplies the Company with the information necessary to ensure that he receives notice of a meeting before it takes place.
Electronic and web communications Provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which came into force in January 2007 enable companies to communicate with members by electronic and or website communications.
The New Articles allow communications to members in electronic form and, in addition, they also permit the Company to take advantage of the new provisions relating to website communications.
Before the Company can communicate with a member by means of website communication, the relevant member must be asked individually by the Company to agree that the Company may send or supply documents or information to him by means of a website, and the Company must either have received a positive response or have received no response within the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the request was sent.
The Company will notify the member either in writing, or by other permitted means when a relevant document or information is placed on the website and a member can always request a hard copy version of the document or information.
Directors indemnities and loans to fund expenditure The Companies Act 2006 has in some areas widened the scope of the powers of a company to indemnify directors and to fund expenditure incurred in connection with certain actions against directors.
General Generally the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer language into the New Articles and in some areas to conform the language of the New Articles.
