214032 Temple Bar pp27-pp52 20 2 09 21:04 Page 27 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the The financial statements are published on the Annual Report and the financial statements in www.
co. uk website, which accordance with applicable United Kingdom law is a website maintained by the Companys and those International Financial Reporting Investment Manager, Investec Investment Standards as adopted by the European Union.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by IIM or any The directors are required to prepare financial of its subsidiaries is, so far as it relates to the statements for each financial year which present Company, the responsibility of IIM.
The work fairly the financial position of the Company and carried out by the auditors does not involve of the Group and the financial performance and consideration of the maintenance and integrity of cash flows of the Company and of the Group for this website and accordingly, the auditors accept that period.
In preparing those financial no responsibility for any changes that have statements, the directors are required to: occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Visitors select suitable accounting policies and then to the website need to be aware that legislation apply them consistently: in the United Kingdom governing the preparation present information, including accounting and dissemination of the financial statements policies, in a manner that provides relevant, may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
reliable, comparable and understandable information: On behalf of the Board provide additional disclosures when John Reeve compliance with the specific requirements Chairman in lFRS is insufficient to enable users to 20 February 2009 understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and state that the Company has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the managers report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and its undertakings, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
