214032 Temple Bar pp27-pp52 20 2 09 20:53 Page 48 Notice of meeting NOTICE OF MEETING: NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the eighty third Annual General Meeting of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC will be held at 11.00 a. m. on Monday 30 March 2009 at 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP for the following purposes: ORDINARY BUSINESS: 1. to approve the group accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 together with the reports of the directors and auditors thereon, 2. to approve the report on directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2008, 3. to declare a final dividend of 22.34p per ordinary share, 4. to re-elect Mr D G C Webster as a director, 5. to re-elect Mrs J F fide Moller as a director, 6. to re-elect Mr F L J Walton as a director, 7. to re-elect Mr J Reeve as a director, 8. to re-appoint the auditors and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
SPECIAL BUSINESS: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following special resolutions: 9.
That the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and initialled by the chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identification be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
That the Company generally be and is hereby authorised for the purpose of Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares provided that: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 8,812,732 being 14.99 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of the passing of this resolution: ii the minimum price which may be paid for such shares is 25p per share: iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses payable by the Company which may be paid for such shares shall be 5% above the average of the market value of the share quotations taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days before the purchase is made: iv the authority hereby conferred shall unless previously renewed or revoked expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2010, or, if earlier, the date falling fifteen months from the date of this resolution: v the Company may make a contract to purchase its own shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of its own shares in pursuance of any such contract.
Dated this 20th day of February, 2009 By order of the Board of Directors M K Slade For Investec Investment Management Limited Secretary 2 Gresham Street London EC2V 7QP 48 Temple Bar Investment Trust NEWGATE STREET CHEAPSIDE GRESHAM STREET 214032 Temple Bar pp27-pp52 20 2 09 20:53 Page 49 Museum of London LONDON WALL Shown is a plan of the location of Investec St Barts Investment Management Hospital ANGEL ST. Limited, 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP where the Annual General Meeting will be held on Monday 30 March 2009 at 11.00 a. m. ST PAULS St Pauls Cathedral NOTES 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the above meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend the meeting to speak and vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A member wishing to appoint more than one proxy must appoint each proxy in respect of a specified number of shares within his holding.
For this purpose, a member may photocopy the enclosed Form of Proxy before completion and must indicate the number of shares in respect of which each proxy is appointed.
Instruments of proxy should be sent to Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6EE so as to arrive no later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending and voting at the meeting in person should they wish to do so.
Members who hold ordinary shares in the Company in uncertificated form must have been entered on the Companys register of members by 6.00 p. m. on 28 March 2009 in order to be able to attend and vote at the meeting.
Such members may only vote at the meeting in respect of ordinary shares held at the time.
In accordance with Section 325 of the Companies Act 2006, the right to appoint proxies does not apply to persons nominated to receive information rights under Section 146 of the Act.
Persons nominated to receive information rights under Section 146 of the Act who have been sent a copy of this notice of meeting are hereby informed, in accordance with Section 149 2 of the Act, that they may have a right under an agreement with the registered member by whom they were nominated to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for this meeting.
If they have no such right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Nominated persons should contact the registered member by whom they were nominated in respect of these arrangements.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos CREST Manual.
The CREST message must be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent IDRA19 by not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or the adjourned meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the CREST message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the CREST message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s, should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member s is are a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that the CREST sponsor or voting service provider takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a CREST message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s is are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
None of the directors has a service contract with the Company.
As at 20 February 2009, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Company had 58,790,742 ordinary shares in issue with a total of 58,790,742 voting rights.
T S E U G A T N O M. T S NOBLE ST STREET D R A W D FOSTER LA WOOD E G N I K ST MARTINS LE GRAND
