 MEETING Adoption of new Articles of Association The proposed new Articles of Association the New Articles have been prepared to take account of developments in the law and practice applicable to the Company.
The following summary highlights the key changes from the current Articles of Association the Current Articles.
Articles which duplicate statutory provisions Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 are in the main amended to bring them into line with the Companies Act 2006.
Certain examples of such provisions include provisions as to the form of resolutions, the variation of class rights, the requirement to keep accounting records and provisions regarding the period of notice to convene general meetings.
The main changes to reflect this approach are detailed below.
Where a particular article is referred to below, this is the principal article where the changes will be effected however consequential changes will be made, where appropriate, throughout the New Articles to ensure consistency with these changes.
Extraordinary Resolutions and Meetings Any reference to extraordinary resolutions and extraordinary meetings will be deleted as the concept of extraordinary resolutions and extraordinary meetings have not been retained under the Companies Act 2006.
The provisions have been amended in the New Articles to reflect that a special resolution not an extraordinary resolution will be required to vary any class rights.
Quorum Requirements Article 53 The Companies Act 2006 provides in general terms that the quorum for a general meeting be calculated by reference to the numbers of qualifying persons who are present at the meeting, which includes an individual who is a member of the Company, a person authorised to act as the representative of a corporation and a person appointed as proxy of a member.
As before, it is proposed that the quorum for a general meeting will be two but, in line with the Companies Act 2006, the New Articles make clear that there will be no double counting for qualifying persons who are representatives of the same corporation of proxies of the same member.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 59  MEETING CONTINUED Corporate Representatives Article 74 Multiple corporate representatives may be appointed but if they purport to exercise their rights in different ways, then the power is treated as not being exercised.
The New Articles will reflect this.
Age of Directors Article 85 The Current Articles contain provisions requiring a Director to retire and offer himself for re-election at the next AGM after he attains the age of seventy years or more.
Such provision has been removed to avoid any breach of the Employment Equality Age Regulations 2006.
Conflicts of interest Article 95A The Companies Act 2006 set out directors general duties.
The provisions largely codify the existing law, but with some changes.
Under the Companies Act 2006, from 1 October 2008 a Director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a Director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The Companies Act 2006 also allows the articles of association to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The New Articles give the Directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards which will apply when Directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
Firstly, only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to make the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
It is also proposed that the New Articles should contain provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at Board meetings and availability of Board papers to protect a Directors being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict has previously been authorised by Directors.
It is the Boards intention to report annually on the Companys procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers to authorise conflicts are operated effectively.
60 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC
