ACCOUNTINGPOLICIES a Basis of preparation The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and where appropriate, International Accounting Standards IAS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, and International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee IASC that remain in effect, and to the extent that they have been adopted by the European Union At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations have not been applied in these financial statements since they were in issue but not yet effective: Effective date for accounting periods International Accounting Standards IAS IFRS beginning on or after IAS 1 revised Presentation of Financial Statements Comprehensive revision including requiring a statement of comprehensive income 1 January 2009 IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009 IAS 23 Borrowing Costs revised March 2007 1 January 2009 International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements 1 January 2008 IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes 1 July 2008 IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction 1 January 2008 The Directors have chosen not to early adopt these standards and interpretations as they do not anticipate that they would have a material impact on the Companys financial statements in the period of initial application.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the measurement at fair value of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Trusts AIC in January 2003, revised December 2005, is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, the Directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the SORP.
All financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised or fide-recognised on the date of the transaction by the use of trade date accounting.
As the Company is a UK investment trust, whose share capital is issued in the UK and denominated in Pounds Sterling, the Directors consider that the functional currency of the Company is Pounds Sterling.
b Presentation of income statement In order to reflect better the activities of an investment trust company, and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the income statement between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented within the income statement.
In accordance with the Companys status as an investment trust, net capital profits may not be distributed by way of dividend.
Additionally, the net revenue is the measure the Directors believe appropriate in assessing the Companys compliance with certain requirements set out in Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
42 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC c Revenue Dividends receivable on equity shares are treated as revenue for the year on an ex-dividend basis.
Where no ex-dividend date is available dividends are recognised on their due date.
Provision is made for any dividends not expected to be received.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the amount of the cash dividend is recognised in the income section of the Income Statement.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend is recognised in the capital section of the Income Statement.
Interest receivable on bank deposits is recognised on an accruals basis.
d Expenses Transaction costs arising on the purchase of investments are included in the capital section of the Income Statement.
They are also included in the transfer to Capital Reserve Realised, in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
All other operating expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis and are charged through the revenue section of the Income Statement except as follows: i expenses relating to the disposal of an investment are deducted from the sales proceeds.
Details of transaction costs on purchases and sales of investments are disclosed in note 6 on page 48. ii expenses are treated as capital where a connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments can be demonstrated.
e Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Companys liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against capital returns in the supplementary information in the Income Statement is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses presented in the revenue return column of the Income Statement, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital return column.
Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all taxable temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the Balance Sheet date.
This is subject to deferred tax assets only being recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the rates applicable to the legal jurisdictions in which they arise.
Due to the Companys status as an investment trust company, and the intention to continue meeting the conditions required to obtain approval in the foreseeable future, the Company has not provided deferred tax on any capital gains and losses arising on the revaluation or disposal of investments.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 43 ACCOUNTINGPOLICIES CONTINUED f Investments held at fair value through profit or loss The Companys business is investing in financial assets with a view to profiting from their total return in the form of income and capital growth.
This portfolio of financial assets is managed and its performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented investment strategy, and information about the portfolio is provided internally on that basis to the Companys Directors and other key management personnel.
Accordingly, upon initial recognition all of the Companys non-current asset investments are designated on initial recognition as being at fair value through profit or loss.
They are included initially at fair value, which is taken to be their cost including expenses incidental to the acquisition.
Subsequently, the investments are valued at fair value, which is measured as follows: i The fair value of financial instruments is based on their quoted bid price at US market close on the balance sheet date, without deduction for any of the estimated future selling costs.
ii Unquoted investments where there is not an active market are valued using an appropriate valuation technique so as to establish what the transaction price would have been at the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in the net profit or loss for the period as a capital item in the Income Statement.
g Foreign currencies Transactions involving foreign currencies are translated to Sterling the Companys functional currency at the spot exchange rate ruling on the date of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currency gains and losses are included in the Income Statement and allocated as capital or income depending on the nature of the transaction giving rise to the gain or loss.
Foreign currency gains and losses allocated as capital are included in the transfer to Capital reserve realised in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
h Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
i Reserves Share Premium Account represents the amount paid on the Share Capital in excess of the shares nominal value.
Capital Redemption Reserve represents the nominal value of shares repurchased.
Capital reserves the Companys Articles of Association preclude it from making any distribution of capital profits.
Capital Reserve Realised gains and losses on realisation of investments, changes in fair value of investments which are readily convertible to cash, without accepting adverse terms, and realised exchange differences of a capital nature are dealt with in this reserve.
Purchases of the Companys own shares for cancellation are also funded from this reserve.
Capital Reserve Unrealised changes in the fair value of investments that are not readily convertible to cash, without accepting adverse terms, and the amounts by which other assets and liabilities valued at fair value differ from their book value are dealt with in this reserve.
Revenue Reserve represents net income earned that has not been distributed to shareholders.
Income recognised in the Income Statement is allocated to applicable reserves in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
44 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC
