NOTICEOFMEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC will be held at Stationers Hall, Ave Maria Lane, London EC4M 7DD on 25 September 2008 at 12 noon to transact the following business: To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions: Ordinary Business Resolution No.
To receive and adopt the Directors and Auditors Reports and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2008.
To re-elect Christopher D Brady as a Director.
To re-elect Hamish N Buchan as a Director.
To re-elect Sir Peter Burt as a Director.
To re-elect Peter O Harrison as a Director.
To re-elect Gregory E Johnson as a Director.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 April 2008.
To re-appoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditors.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
That new Articles of Association of the Company be adopted in the form produced to the Annual General Meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification.
That, subject to confirmation of the Court of Session in Scotland, the share premium account of the Company and the capital redemption reserve of the Company as at 5.00 p. m. on 25 September 2008 be cancelled.
By Order of the Board Registered Office 5 Morrison Street Edinburgh EH3 8BH Sara A MacIntosh for and on behalf of Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited Secretary 26 June 2008 Please ensure that you read the notes to this Notice on pages 57 and 58.
56 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Notes: 1.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote thereat instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A proxy form must be returned to the Companys registrar, Equiniti, Aspect House, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZN to arrive not later than 12 noon on 23 September 2008.
The Report and Financial Statements are circulated to Shareholders.
Shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting.
Copies of the letters of appointment of the Directors, the current Articles of Association of the Company and the full terms of the proposed amendments to the Articles of Association are available for inspection at the Companys registered office at 5 Morrison Street, Edinburgh, EH3 8BH, at Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited, The Adelphi, 1 11 John Adam Street, London WC2N 6HT and at the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
Electronic proxy appointment for CREST members for UK only CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 25 September 2008 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Electronic proxy appointment for non-CREST members for UK only Shareholders who prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically via the Internet can do so through the Lloyds TSB Registrars website at www.
co. uk where full instructions on the procedure are given.
The personal reference number, card ID and account number printed in the voting pack will be required to use this electronic proxy appointment system.
Alternatively, shareholders who have already registered with Lloyds TSB Registrars on-line portfolio service, Shareview, can appoint their proxy electronically by logging on to their portfolio at www.
co. uk and clicking on Company Meetings.
A proxy appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent to any address other than those provided or if received after 12 noon on 23 September 2008.
Please note that any electronic communication found to contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 57 NOTICEOFMEETING CONTINUED 8.
Electronic proxy appointment for New Zealand registered shareholders New Zealand registered investors who prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically via the Internet can do so through the Computershare website at www.
co. nz investor centre, click on Proxy voting, choose the company, where full instructions on the procedure are given.
Your CSN Common Shareholder Number and personal FIN Number will be required to use this electronic proxy appointment system.
A proxy appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent to any address other than that provided or if received after 12 noon UK time on 23 September 2008.
Please note that any electronic communication found and contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
New Zealand registered investors cannot appoint more than one proxy when registering the appointment of their proxy electronically.
58 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC
