Directors Report: Governance Corporate Governance continued At each of its meetings the Committee reviewed and considered reports Group Finance Committee The Committee is chaired by David Grigson and is attended by Adrian from the Group Director of Risk and Business Assurance on the status Martin, Roger Taylor, the Company Secretary and other senior executives.
of the Groups risk management systems, findings from the internal audit The role of the Committee is to review and monitor the Groups key function concerning internal controls, and reports on the status of any accounting, tax, treasury and legal matters and to provide the Nonweaknesses in internal controls identified by the internal or external auditors.
Executive Directors, through David Grigson and Adrian Martin, with Remuneration Committee visibility of these issues.
The Committees remit supplements the work The Committee currently comprises the following independent Noncarried out by the Audit Committee.
The Committee met formally once Executive Directors: Sir Brian Pitman Chairman, Adrian Martin, during the period.
The Chairman of the Committee also updates the David Mansfield, Steven Esom, Baroness Morgan and David Grigson.
Board following each Committee meeting.
The Committee met formally four times during the period and each Risk management and internal control member attended every meeting.
Other Directors, the Company Secretary, The Company has established a risk management programme that assists the Group Director of Human Resources, and advisors attended by management throughout the Company to identify, assess and mitigate invitation only.
A detailed description of the Committees remit and work business, financial, operational and compliance risks.
This function was during the period is contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 32 further enhanced during the period by the creation of a Group Risk and to 38.
Its terms of reference comply with the Code, are available on Business Assurance Committee that brings together senior executives request from the Company Secretary and are published on the Companys with operational responsibility to identify and manage any key risks to the website.
The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board following Group.
The Board views management of risk as integral to good business each Committee meeting.
The programme is designed to support managements decisionmaking and to improve the reliability of business performance.
Nomination Committee During the period the Committee comprised the following Non-Executive The risk management programme is supported by a dedicated team of Directors: Sir Brian Pitman Chairman, John Gildersleeve, David Ross, risk specialists, including internal auditors, who comprise the Group Risk Adrian Martin and Baroness Morgan.
The Committee meets as and when and Business Assurance function.
To ensure that all parts of the Group required to discuss succession planning and consideration of appropriate have a good understanding of risk, members of this team have conducted appointments to the Board.
As reported in last years Annual Report, the risk workshops and reviews within each of the main operating divisions in Committee met prior to the appointment of David Grigson, when such the past year, culminating in an assessment of key business risks by the appointment was considered and recommended by the Committee.
No Executive Directors and senior management.
These risk assessments formal meetings were required during the period because it was decided have been wide-ranging, covering risks arising from the regulatory that the previously approved succession planning was satisfied for the environment, strategy, counter-parties and organisational change period and no new appointments were proposed during the period.
associated both with major projects and with acquisitions.
The risk management process operates throughout the Group, being applied The Committees terms of reference comply with the Code and are equally to the main business divisions and corporate functions.
available from the Company Secretary on request and are published The output from each annual assessment is a list of key strategic, on the Companys website.
The Committee is responsible for succession financial, operational and compliance risks.
Associated action plans and planning at Board level, overseeing the selection and appointment controls to mitigate them are also put in place where this is possible and of Directors, regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition to the extent considered appropriate by the Board taking account of costs of the Board and making its recommendations to the Board.
Changes in the status of the key risks and changes to the in evaluating the commitments of individual Directors and the balance risk matrix are reported regularly to the Audit Committee and at each of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board.
Insurance Compliance Committee The Directors have overall responsibility for the Groups systems of The Committee is chaired by Baroness Morgan and is attended by internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Board delegates Adrian Martin, Andrew Harrison and other senior executives.
The role of to executive management the responsibility for designing, operating the Committee is to review the Groups compliance with regulatory matters and monitoring these systems.
The systems are based on a process concerning the sale of insurance products to customers and to provide the of identifying, evaluating and managing key risks and include the risk Non-Executive Directors, through Baroness Morgan and Adrian Martin, with management processes set out above.
The Committee met formally three times during the period.
The Chairman of the Committee also updates the Board following The systems of internal control were in place throughout the period and each Committee meeting.
up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and financial statements.
The effectiveness of these systems is periodically reviewed by the Audit Consumer Regulation Compliance Committee Committee in accordance with the revised guidance in the Turnbull Report.
formally Telecoms Regulatory Committee These systems are also refined as necessary to meet changes in the Groups The Committee is chaired by David Mansfield and is attended by David business and associated risks.
The systems of internal control are designed Goldie, the Company Secretary and other senior executives.
The role to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business of the Committee is to review the Groups compliance with fixed line objectives.
They can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance regulatory matters, consumer regulation across the fixed and mobile against material errors, losses, fraud or breaches of laws and regulations.
businesses including Trading Standards, Data Protection and Advertising Standards, and to provide the Non-Executive Directors, through David The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the Mansfield, with visibility of these compliance issues.
The Committee met systems of risk management and internal control in operation during the formally three times during the period.
The Chairman of the Committee year and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report and financial also updates the Board following each Committee meeting.
statements and this was approved by the Audit Committee and the Board.
3 0 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2008
