Directors Report: Governance Remuneration Report Compliance Approximately 72% of Executive Directors total remuneration earned in This Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the 2008 was performance related.
Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 Regulations and In view of his significant shareholding, Charles Dunstone does not receive the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Code.
The constitution long-term incentive share awards.
and operation of the Remuneration Committee are in compliance with the Code.
In framing its remuneration policy the Committee has given full In setting remuneration levels, the Committee takes independent consideration to the matters set out in Schedule A of the Code.
As required advice on market-level remuneration, based on comparisons with other by the Regulations, a resolution to approve this Report will be proposed companies ranked 15 places above and below the Company in the FTSE at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 31 July 2008 AGM.
100 index as ranked by market capitalisation.
On the date of the market nd review the Company was ranked 82 and the comparator group was The Regulations require the Companys auditors to report to the members th th made up of companies ranked 67 to 97.
This group was selected as it on the auditable part of this Report marked and to state, in their opinion, captures organisations of similar size and complexity.
that this part of the Report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Regulations.
In particular, the Committee has recognised that the size and complexity of the Group has increased significantly.
Remuneration Committee Responsibility for the establishment of overall remuneration policy for In 2008, the Committee made its recommendations to the Board by the Group lies with the Board of Directors.
The Remuneration Committee taking into account: is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the The experience of Executive Directors and other senior managers: remuneration of the Chairman, Executive Directors and senior managers.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Groups The Groups competitiveness in the market place, assessed through website www.
com or on request from the Company Secretary.
independent external market comparisons: The Committees current composition is Sir Brian Pitman Chairman, The growing international nature of the Group: and Steven Esom, David Mansfield, Baroness Morgan, Adrian Martin and The development of new business streams and the added complexity David Grigson, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
to the business, e. g. joint ventures with Best Buy and Virgin.
None of the members of the Committee has any personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided by In order to align closely the interests of Executive Directors and the Committee, no potential conflicts of interest arising from crossshareholders, the Company requires Executive Directors to build up memberships and no day-to-day involvement in running the Groups and retain a shareholding in the Company of at least 200% of their annual business.
The members of the Committee met four times during salary previously 100%.
The Committee expects Executive Directors the period to consider matters relating to the remuneration of to meet their shareholding targets within five years of appointment.
Executive Directors as well as the terms and conditions of their Components of remuneration service with the Company.
The main fixed and performance-related elements of remuneration Mercer Ltd Mercer act as lead advisors to the Committee.
Advice has that can be awarded to Executive Directors are as follows: been sought from Mercer on matters surrounding remuneration policy basic salary, benefits and pension contribution fixed : design and benchmarking for individual Executive Directors and members of senior management and the design of remuneration packages based annual performance bonus variable : on current market trends.
Mercer has no other connection with the Group.
share options variable : and Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte provided advice to the Committee on employment tax and the administration of share option and  Shares variable.
Deloitte are the Groups auditors and provide Salaries and benefits other services to the Group as set out in the Corporate Governance Executive Directors basic salaries are reviewed on 1 July annually and Report on pages 28 to 31.
The Deputy Chairman, the Group Director take into account the roles, responsibilities, performance and experience of Human Resources and the Company Secretary also provided internal of the individuals and information obtained from published market data advice in respect of matters raised by the Committee.
No Director nor on the salary rates for similar positions in the remuneration comparator any person advising the Committee plays a part in any discussion about group.
Basic salaries had not been increased since 1 July 2006 and the his or her own remuneration.
market data showed that the Executive Directors were below median Remuneration policy against the peer group.
The Committee seeks to ensure that remuneration and incentive The Committee therefore decided to make increases to basic salaries schemes are in line with best practice, providing a strong link to individual and business performance and ensuring alignment between employees to bring them closer to market median.
Executive Director salaries from 1 July 2008 will therefore be: Charles Dunstone 600,000 2007: 550,000, and shareholders.
Roger Taylor 400,000 2007: 350,000, David Goldie 325,000 2007: Rewards are designed to attract and retain individuals of high quality 275,000 and Andrew Harrison 275,000 2007: 225,000. who have the requisite skills and who are incentivised to achieve levels of performance which exceed that of competitor companies.
This requires packages to be market-competitive and capable of rewarding exceptional performance.
The approach is to set fixed remuneration at market median levels and to offer variable rewards, linked to the performance of the Group, which can provide significant overall levels of remuneration for exceptional performance and shareholder value creation.
3 2 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2008
