Governance Annual Performance Bonus The Company operates a bonus scheme designed to reflect the performance of the Group.
Bonuses are governed by performance conditions set by the Remuneration Committee to ensure that maximum variable rewards are paid only for exceptional performance.
The bonus scheme for the period ended 29 March 2008 was based on improvements in Headline Earnings per share EPS before tax see notes 10 and 11 to the financial statements and individual performance.
Headline EPS before tax for the period increased by over 70%, which was recognised by the Remuneration Committee as being exceptional performance.
Based on these measures, the Executive Directors will be paid the following bonuses as a percentage of annual salary: 100% to Charles Dunstone, 200% to Roger Taylor, 167% to David Goldie, and 160% to Andrew Harrison.
The bonus scheme for the period ending 4 April 2009 will again be based on improvements in Headline EPS before tax and individual performance, with a maximum payment of 200% of annual salary.
Annual Deferred Bonus Plan In the period, Executive Directors and senior managers had the option of taking some or all of their cash bonus in the form of a deferred share award.
The rights to deferred shares cannot be exercised for 12 months.
Matching shares may also be awarded if the deferred share award is not exercised for up to a further two years.
The number of matching shares awarded equates to 12.5% of the deferred amount at the beginning of each year.
The share equivalent of dividends that would have been paid on the shares is added to the deferred share award each year.
This scheme will be reviewed during the next year to ensure that its structure continues to be aligned with the delivery of business objectives in light of corporate governance guidance.
Share options The Company has a share option scheme for Executive Directors and senior managers both in the UK and overseas.
No options were granted to Executive Directors in the period ended 29 March 2008.
A UK savingsrelated share option scheme is open to all eligible employees in the UK, including Executive Directors.
Andrew Harrison participates in the SAYE scheme and will have the option to purchase 6,865 shares at a share price of 1.38 in July 2008.
Performance Share Plan In July 2004, senior managers, including Executive Directors, received awards of Performance Shares as defined in the Annual General Meeting on 28 July 2004.
Further awards were made to certain individuals in the period ended 1 April 2006.
These awards are subject to a mixture of Headline EPS and Total Shareholder Return TSR performance targets measured over a three or four year performance period.
In December 2006 the Remuneration Committee awarded a further grant under the Performance Share Plan.
This award is subject to TSR performance targets measured against an initial performance period to 4 June 2010 and a subsequent performance period to 4 June 2011.
The TSR calculation is independently calculated for the Remuneration Committee by Mercer.
Details of grants to Executive Directors and performance targets are set out in the share tables later in the Report.
No awards were made to Executive Directors during the period ended 29 March 2008.
