Directors Report: Business Review Chief Executives Review continued better handset availability from vendors translates into the best value and We see considerable scope choice for our customers.
It is a virtuous circle, with this reinvestment in turn generating further market share gains.
for further expansion in This year our store base grew by 267 net new stores.
We opened 390, closed or relocated 138, acquired a chain of 77 stores in Portugal at the Europe and the US start of the year and sold our 62 Swiss stores just before the year end.
This shows how active we are in managing our portfolio both with Charles Dunstone, Chief Executive Officer respect to individual stores and also in relation to whole geographical markets.
Our store base has almost doubled in the last four years.
After five years of sustained growth in the European handset market, as further penetration growth was supported by an accelerating replacement cycle, many of our territories saw flat or negative market unit growth.
It is a testimony to the strength of our customer proposition that we recorded mobile connections growth of 15% in this market environment.
In fact our retail chain did even better than these numbers suggest, with total connections growth of 16% adjusting for a very weak year-on-year Our Strategy in Focus performance from our off-the-page channel in the UK.
The key drivers of growth were the explosion in mobile broadband modems, and a growing consumer interest in the smartphone category of handsets that combine traditional calls and text messaging services with email and other data functionality.
This was a trend that we identified early, and we added significant value to our network operator partners by recruiting material volumes of high value data customers on their behalf.
These trends are set to continue in the coming year.
Best Buy Mobile, our US retail venture in partnership with Best Buy, has comfortably exceeded our expectations.
We have accelerated our roll-out Our virtuous circle plans twice over the last 12 months and now intend to have a presence of performance in every Best Buy store in the US by the end of the current calendar year.
The customer response has been very positive and this has translated into material sales uplifts.
We are confident that, over time, this business can become a meaningful third leg to the Group.
Looking forward, the next 12 months offer an exciting combination of new growth opportunities and management challenges.
We have chosen to slow our rate of physical expansion temporarily, diverting more of our resources towards the evolution of our retail proposition described in the next section.
Once we are satisfied that we have developed the right formula of store format, product range and employee training to address our changing marketplace, we will revert to the more aggressive space Investment Scale growth demonstrated over the last four years.
This year we plan to open a net 120 new stores, but also invest in a large number of major Our long-term approach to We aim to be a mass market provider investment creates sustainable in our major business lines by driving relocations and refits to maintain and improve the quality and relevance competitive advantage in our chosen for volume ahead of margin.
Investment is not just about then use our increased presence in capex although our commitment the market to improve our supplier There is no doubt that the consumer environment has been tougher to store openings and exchange terms and reinvest these benefits of late in a number of our markets, and we expect these conditions unbundling is significant it is also in the customer proposition.
to continue over the coming months.
However, mobile phones have about marketing, brand-building long since passed from being a luxury item to an absolute necessity and customer recruitment.
in the eyes of most users: and the subsidised business model lessens Proposition Efficiency or removes the upfront cash cost.
In addition, the new growth areas in mobile data should lend support to our performance over the next year.
We are absolutely committed to Scale also creates significant Developing our retail proposition delivering value to customers across efficiencies for our business, through all our services.
Investment in the leveraging our fixed cost store base Last year I highlighted how the needs of our customers were changing.
right platforms is key to our ability and telecoms infrastructure.
We Historically, The Carphone Warehouse and The Phone House have been to develop a compelling customer seek to maintain our competitive the places to go to find someone to guide you through the complexities proposition, as it allows us to build advantage by continued investment of the mobile phone market: to identify the right combination of handset, scale, and offer greater value and across the business.
network and tariff to suit your needs.
We have never considered ourselves to be retailers of hardware: our DNA is much more about helping customers understand technology.
8 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2008
