General Shareholder Information Release of Results The half year results are announced in late November.
The full year results are announced in early June.
Annual General Meeting The AGM is held in London in July.
Dividend Payment Dates Dividends are paid on the Ordinary and Sigma shares as follows: Interim : early January Final : August Dividend Payments Dividends can be paid to Ordinary and Sigma shareholders by means of BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Services : mandate forms for this purpose are available from the Registrar.
Alternatively, shareholders can write to the Registrar the address is given on page 92 of this report to give their instructions: these must include the bank account number, the bank account title and the sort code of the bank to which payments are to be made.
Share Price Listings The market prices of the Companys Ordinary and Sigma shares are published daily in The Financial Times.
Some of the information is published in other leading newspapers.
The Financial Times also shows figures for the estimated Net Asset Values and the discounts applicable.
Share Price Information Ordinary Shares Sigma Shares ISIN GB0009064097 GB00B1YW2J11 SEDOL 0906409 B1YW2J1 Bloomberg TRY.
L Datastream TRY TRYS Internet Details of the market price and Net Asset Value of the Ordinary and Sigma shares can be found at www.
co. uk on the Companys website.
Shareholders who hold their shares in certificated form can check their holdings with the Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, via www.
Please note that to gain access to your details on the Computershare site you will need the holder reference number stated on the top left hand corner of your share certificate.
Disability Act Copies of this Report and Accounts and other documents issued by the Company are available from the Company Secretary.
If needed, copies can be made available in a variety of formats, including Braille, audio tape or larger type as appropriate.
You can contact the Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, which has installed textphones to allow speech and hearing impaired people who have their own textphone to contact them directly, without the need for an intermediate operator, by dialling 0870 702 0005.
Specially trained operators are available during normal business hours to answer queries via this service.
Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf People you should dial 18001 followed by the number you wish to dial.
For investors through the TR Property Share Plan, ISA or PEP, a textphone telephone service is available on 01733 285714.
This service is available during normal business hours.
TR Property Investment Trust 93 THE GROUP COMPANY General Shareholder Information continued Nominee Share Code Where notification has been provided in advance, the Company will arrange for copies of shareholder communications to be provided to the operators of nominee accounts.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings and speak at meetings when invited to do so by the Chairman.
Investors in the TR Property Share Plan, ISA or PEP receive all shareholder communications.
A voting instruction form is provided to facilitate voting at general meetings of the Company.
CGT Base Cost Taxation of capital gains for shareholders who converted Ordinary shares to Sigma shares Upon a disposal of all or part of a shareholders holding of Ordinary shares or as the case may be Sigma shares, the shareholders original capital gains tax base cost in his existing holding of Ordinary shares will have to be apportioned between that shareholder's Ordinary shares and Sigma shares.
We have now agreed with HM Revenue & Customs HMRC to base this apportionment of the original capital gains tax base cost on the proportion of existing Ordinary shares that were converted by a shareholder into Sigma shares on 25 July 2007.
Therefore, if an Ordinary shareholder converted 20% of their existing Ordinary shares into Sigma shares on 25 July 2007, the capital gains tax base cost of the new Sigma shares acquired would be equal to 20% of the original capital gains tax base cost of the Ordinary shares that they held pre-conversion.
The base cost of their remaining holding of Ordinary shares would then be 80% of the original capital gains tax base cost of their Ordinary shares held pre-conversion.
If in doubt as to the consequences of this agreement with HMRC, shareholders should consult with their own professional advisors.
94 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY
