Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolutions 1, 2, 3 and 4: Accounts, Directors shares up to a maximum of 51,543,115 representing Remuneration Report & Dividends approximately 14.99% of the issued share capital as at These are the resolutions which deal with the presentation 7 June 2007, the date of the Notice of the AGM for of the audited accounts, the approval of the directors cancellation.
This authority will expire at this years AGM.
remuneration report and the declaration of the final Your Board is proposing that they should be given renewed dividends.
The vote to approve the remuneration report is authority to purchase Ordinary shares in the market.
Your advisory only and will not require the Company to alter any Board believes that to make such purchases in the market arrangements detailed in the report should the resolution at appropriate times and prices is a suitable method of not be passed.
The Company would, within Resolution 5: Election of Director guidelines set from time to time by the Board, make either a Resolution 5 deals with the election of Mr P Spencer as a single purchase or a series of purchases, when market director.
Under the Articles of Association, Mr Spencer is conditions are suitable, with the aim of maximising the required to submit himself for election at the first AGM benefits to shareholders.
after his appointment: he hereby offers himself for election.
Where purchases are made at prices below the prevailing Resolution 6: Re-election of Director Net Asset Value per share, this will enhance the Net Asset Resolution 6 deals with the re-election of Ms C Burton as Value for the remaining shareholders.
Under the Articles of Association, Ms Burton is intended that purchases would only be made at prices required to retire by rotation at the AGM: she has confirmed below Net Asset Value.
Your Board considers that it will be she will offer herself for re-election.
most advantageous to shareholders for the Company to be able to make such purchases as and when it considers the Resolution 7: Re-election of Director timing to be favourable and therefore does not propose to Resolution 7 deals with the re-election of Mr P Wolton as set a timetable for making any such purchases.
Under the Articles of Association, Mr Wolton is required to retire by rotation at the AGM: he has confirmed The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury he will offer himself for re-election.
Shares Regulations 2003 the Regulations came into force on 1 December 2003.
The Regulations enable Resolution 8: Re-election of Director companies in the United Kingdom to hold in treasury any Resolution 8 is for the re-election of Mr P Salsbury, who of their own shares they have purchased with a view has served on the Board for more than nine years.
In to possible resale at a future date, rather than cancelling accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate them.
If the Company does re-purchase any of its shares, Governance, which requires directors who have served the directors do not currently intend to hold any of the for more than nine years to seek annual re-election, shares re-purchased in treasury.
The shares so reMr Salsbury will retire at the forthcoming AGM and he has purchased will continue to be cancelled.
confirmed he will offer himself for re-election.
The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority limit the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid Resolutions 9 and 10: Auditors for any such share.
It shall not be more than the higher of: These deal with the re-appointment of the auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, and the authorisation for the directors to i 105% of the average of the middle market determine their remuneration.
quotations for an Ordinary share if an Ordinary share is being purchased or of a Sigma share if a Resolution 11: Authority to make Market Purchases of Sigma share is being purchased as taken from the the Companys Ordinary and Sigma shares London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the At the AGM held on 24 July 2007, a special resolution was five business days immediately preceding the date proposed and passed, giving the directors authority, until the on which the Company agrees to buy shares conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2008, to make concerned: and market purchases of the Companys own issued Ordinary TR Property Investment Trust 87 THE GROUP COMPANY
