Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, together with interpretations of the International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, to the extent that they have been adopted by the European Union.
The Group and Company financial statements are expressed in Sterling, which is their functional and presentational currency.
Sterling is the functional currency because it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
a Basis of consolidation The Group accounts consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries to 31 March 2008.
Companies, other than subsidiaries, in which the Group has an investment representing 20% or more of the voting rights and over which it exerts significant influence, are treated as associates.
The Group accounts include the appropriate share of the results and reserves of these companies based on the latest available accounts.
Other companies, in which the Group has an investment representing 20% or more of the voting rights but where the directors consider that the Group does not exert significant influence, are not treated as associates and are accounted for as investments.
b Income Dividends receivable on equity shares are treated as revenue for the year on an ex-dividend basis.
Where no exdividend date is available, dividends receivable on or before the year end are treated as revenue for the year.
Provision is made for any dividends not expected to be received.
The fixed returns on debt securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on each such security.
Interest receivable from cash and short term deposits is accrued to the end of the year.
Rental income and direct property costs are recognised on an accruals basis.
c Expenses All expenses and finance costs are accounted for on an accruals basis.
An analysis of retained earnings broken down into revenue and capital items is given in note 17.
In arriving at this breakdown, expenses have been presented as revenue items except as follows: expenses which are incidental to the acquisition or disposal of an investment: expenses are presented as capital where a connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments can be demonstrated.
In this respect, the investment management fees are allocated 50% to revenue return and 50% to capital return to reflect the Boards expectations of long term investment returns.
One third of the management fees is deemed to relate to the administration of the Trust and charged to revenue.
The remainder is split on the same basis as finance costs see below and 50% charged to capital return.
The overall result is that two thirds of management fees are charged to revenue and one third to capital.
All performance fees are charged to capital return.
Expenses are allocated between the share classes as follows: management fees are charged separately to each share class administration costs incurred specifically by a single share class are charged to that class other corporate expenses are allocated to the share class in proportion to the share classes relative net asset values at the end of the previous accounting period.
d Finance costs The finance cost in respect of capital instruments other than equity shares is calculated so as to give a constant rate of return on the outstanding balance.
One half of the finance costs is charged to capital return.
Finance costs are allocated to the share class utilising the capital instrument.
TR Property Investment Trust 63 THE GROUP COMPANY
