Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of b the maximum number of Sigma shares hereby TR Property Investment Trust plc will be held at 12 noon authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of on Tuesday 29 July 2008 at the Royal Automobile Club, the Companys Sigma shares in issue at the date 89 91 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS for the purpose of of the Annual General Meeting equivalent to transacting the following business: 19,124,242 Sigma shares of 12.5 pence each at 5 June 2008, the date of this Notice of Annual General Meeting : Ordinary Business 1 To receive the Report of the Directors and the Audited c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2008. may be paid for any such share shall not be more 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the than the higher of: year ended 31 March 2008. i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary share if an 3 To declare a final dividend of 3.30 pence per Ordinary Ordinary share is being purchased or of a share.
Sigma share if a Sigma share is being 4 To declare a final dividend of 0.65 pence per Sigma purchased as taken from the London Stock share.
Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the 5 To elect Mr P Spencer as a Director.
date on which the Company agrees to buy 6 To re-elect Ms C Burton as a Director.
shares concerned: and ii the higher of the price of the last 7 To re-elect Mr P Wolton as a Director.
independent trade and the highest current 8 To re-elect Mr P Salsbury as a Director.
independent bid for an Ordinary share or 9 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the Sigma share in the Company on the trading Company.
venue where the purchase is carried out.
10 To authorise the directors to determine the d the minimum price exclusive of expenses which remuneration of the auditors.
may be paid for an Ordinary share shall be 25 pence, being the nominal value per Ordinary Special Business share and for Sigma shares the minimum price To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following shall be 12.5 pence, being the nominal value per resolutions as special resolutions: Sigma share: 11 THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and e the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the unconditionally authorised in accordance with conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act Company in 2009 or at any other general to make market purchases within the meaning of meeting prior to such time.
section 163 of the Act of Ordinary shares of 25 pence each and Sigma shares of 12.5 pence 12 That the Articles of Association produced to the each in the capital of the Company on such terms meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the meeting and in such manner as the Directors may from time for the purpose of identification be approved and to time determine provided that: adopted as the new Articles of Association New Articles of the Company in substitution for, and to a the maximum number of Ordinary shares hereby the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of Current Articles, with effect from the conclusion of the Companys Ordinary shares in issue at the the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
date of the Annual General Meeting equivalent to 38,599,250 Ordinary shares of 25 pence each In accordance with the Articles of Association at 5 June 2008, the date of this Notice of holders of Sigma shares do not have the right to vote Annual General Meeting : on a declaration of a dividend in respect of the Ordinary shares.
82 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Notice of Annual General Meeting continued In accordance with the Articles of Association 3 Shareholders should note that it is possible that, holders of Ordinary shares do not have the right to pursuant to requests made by shareholders of the vote on a declaration of a dividend in respect of the Company under section 527 of the Companies Act Sigma shares.
2006, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: Holders of Ordinary shares will vote on resolution i the audit of the Companys accounts including the 11 only in respect of market purchases of Ordinary auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are shares and holders of Sigma shares will vote on to be laid before the AGM: or ii any circumstance resolution 11 only in respect of market purchases of connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to Sigma shares.
hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Registered Office: Registered in England No: 84492 section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The 51 Berkeley Square Company may not require the shareholders requesting London any such website publication to pay its expenses in W1J 5BB complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it By Order of the Board makes the statement available on the website.
The Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes Secretary any statement that the Company has been required 5 June 2008 under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting publish on a website.
1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the Annual 4 In order to facilitate voting by corporate General Meeting AGM may appoint one or more representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be proxies who need not be a member of the Company put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate to attend and, on a poll, to vote on his or her behalf.
In shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the order to be valid an appointment of proxy must be meeting as its corporate representative with returned in hard copy form by post, by courier or by instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the hand to the Companys Registrars, Computershare directions of all of the other corporate representatives Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll Bristol BS13 8FB not less than 48 hours before the those corporate representatives will give voting time of the AGM.
Appointment of a proxy does not directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote preclude a shareholder from attending the AGM and or withhold a vote as corporate representative in voting in person.
accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate 2 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate Securities Regulations 2001, in order to be able to shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the attend and vote at the AGM or any adjourned meeting, meeting as its corporate representative, a designated and also for the purpose of calculating how many corporate representative will be nominated, from those votes a person may cast a person must have his her corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on name entered on the Register of Members of the a poll and the other corporate representatives will give Company by 12 noon on 27 July 2008 or 6.00 pm on voting directions to that designated corporate the date 2 days before any adjourned meeting.
Corporate shareholders are referred to Changes to entries on the Register of Members after the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
uk for TR Property Investment Trust 83 THE GROUP COMPANY D WHITEHALL A O UR STREET R CHARING CRO AIR ST S R E GREEK ST DEAN STREET G E N T S T S R RUPERT ST OXENDON WARDOUR STREET E E T WHITCOMB STREET SACKVILLE ST ST WARDO DUKE ST BURY ST MARLBOROUGH ROAD REGENT STEET SHERWOOD ST SAVILE ROW ST JAMESS STREET GT WINDMILL ST HAYMARKET LEXINGTON ST ARLINGTON STREET NEW BOND STREET OLD BOND STREET CARNABY ST C IRVING ST I Y Q S T T S S R U E P L DOWNING ST S S U O K H S C S DENMAN ST O Notice of Annual General Meeting continued further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes Directions Pall Mall Clubhouse a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
5 The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another Leicester Square person and who have been nominated to receive communication from the Company in accordance with section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated Piccadilly persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under Circus Royal Academy National of Arts an agreement with the registered shareholder who Gallery holds shares on their behalf to be appointed or to Nelsons Column have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do Green Park not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to given instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
GREEN ST JAMESS 6 Biographical details of the Directors are shown on PARK PARK page 41 of the Annual Report & Accounts.
7 The issued share capital of the Company is 257,500,000 Ordinary shares of 25p each and 127,580,000 Sigma shares of 12.5p each.
The total The Royal Automobile Club has a dress code: number of voting rights in the Company is Jacket and Tie.
Shareholders are reminded that on a poll vote, the total number of votes cast is calculated according to the NAV per Ordinary share and the NAV per Sigma share.
8 The following documents are available for inspection at the registered offices of TR Property Investment Trust plc during normal business hours on any weekday and will be available at the place of the AGM from 15 minutes before the meeting until it ends: Register of Directors interests in the share capital of the Company.
Copies of the current and proposed Articles of Association of the Company.
9 The notice is sent for information only to holders of debentures issued by Trust Union Finance 1991 PLC.
84 TR Property Investment Trust L R A C STREET T L R E G I E A R S D T N S D G G P A E I C C N L L O T A S G MADDOX N I F LEIC I L L R A U GERRARD ST B R BROADWICK STREET T ORANGE ST JAMESS PANTON ST SQ PICCADILY KING STREET OLD COMPTON STREET ST JAMESS PLACE PALL MALL S RYDER T SQUARE E JERMYN STREET CHARLES II STREET L L UE A N P M BEAK STREET A ESTER CRANBOURN STREET LL E THE MALL V A Y R U B S BREWER STREET E T F A STRAND STREET H SHAFTESBURY AVENUE S CONDUIT STREET MONMOUTH ST ST MARTI THE GROUP COMPANY ST MARTINS LANE NS PL
