Investing in TR Property Investment Trust plc Market Purchases The shares of TR Property Investment Trust plc are listed and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Investors may purchase shares through their stockbroker, bank or other financial intermediary.
Saving Scheme and ISA BNP Paribas Fund Services UK Limited BNP Paribas operates and administers both a share savings scheme and an ISA scheme the Schemes dedicated to the shares of the Company.
BNP Paribas made these Schemes available at the request of the Company and they have operated since 2005.
Both the share savings scheme and the ISA are subject to the Key Features document, which should be read before entering into the investment.
These Schemes are subject to commission, stamp duty and administration charges, which are detailed in the Key Features document.
Contact details are given on the facing page.
Alternatively, UK residents can invest through the Alliance Trust.
Alliance Trust provide and administer a range of selfselect investment plans, including tax-advantaged PEPs, ISAs and SIPPs Self-Invested Pension Plans and also Investment Plans and First Steps, an Investment Plan for Children.
For more information Alliance Trust can be contacted on 08000 326 323, or visit www.
co. uk Please remember that the value of your investments and any income from them may go down as well as up.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
You may not get back the amount that you invest.
If you are in any doubt as to the suitability of a plan or any investment available within a plan, please take professional advice.
TR Property Investment Trust 95 THE GROUP COMPANY TR Property Share Plan BNP Paribas Fund Services UK Limited offers a Share Plan providing a simple and flexible way of investing in TR Property Investment Trust plc.
The Share Plan offers the following: Regular savings from 50 per month quarter, or lump sum investments from 500 An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your bank or building society account All paperwork and documentation is simplified and reduced to a minimum Half yearly valuations with consolidated tax certificate TR Property ISA You can invest directly in TR Property Investment Trust plc through the TR Property ISA.
The ISA offers the following: Tax free income and tax free growth Regular savings from 100 per month or an initial lump sum investment from 2,000, and further lump sums of 500 An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your bank or building society account Half yearly valuations and reports Both Mini and Maxi ISAs available for investment by lump sum or regular savings Under the TR Property PEP and ISA, you are permitted to transfer your existing PEP or ISA funds into the Trust.
Investments retain their tax-efficient status during and after transfer.
Please remember that the value of your investment can fall as well as rise and you may not get back the amount originally invested.
Tax assumptions may change if the law changes and the value of tax relief will depend upon your individual circumstances.
Further Information Please consult our website www.
co. uk or write to: BNP Paribas Fund Services UK Limited TR Property Investment Trust plc Share Plan ISA PEP Block C, Western House Lynch Wood Business Park Peterborough PE2 6BP Alternatively, please contact your professional adviser for further information or call our Investor Services Department on 0845 358 1113.
BNP Paribas Fund Services UK Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
We may record telephone calls for our mutual protection and to improve customer service.
This document is printed on Revive Silk of which 75% of the furnish is made from 100% fide-inked post consumer waste.
The remaining 25% being mill broke and virgin fibres.
This paper is TR Property Investment bleached using a combination of Totally Chlorine Free TCF Trust plc is managed by and Elemental Chlorine Free ECF.
The manufacturing mill is accredited with the ISO 14001 standard for environmental management.
