Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, together with interpretations of the International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, to the extent that they have been adopted by the European Union.
The Group and Company financial statements are expressed in Sterling, which is their functional and presentational currency.
Sterling is the functional currency because it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
a Basis of consolidation The Group accounts consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries to 31 March 2008.
Companies, other than subsidiaries, in which the Group has an investment representing 20% or more of the voting rights and over which it exerts significant influence, are treated as associates.
The Group accounts include the appropriate share of the results and reserves of these companies based on the latest available accounts.
Other companies, in which the Group has an investment representing 20% or more of the voting rights but where the directors consider that the Group does not exert significant influence, are not treated as associates and are accounted for as investments.
b Income Dividends receivable on equity shares are treated as revenue for the year on an ex-dividend basis.
Where no exdividend date is available, dividends receivable on or before the year end are treated as revenue for the year.
Provision is made for any dividends not expected to be received.
The fixed returns on debt securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on each such security.
Interest receivable from cash and short term deposits is accrued to the end of the year.
Rental income and direct property costs are recognised on an accruals basis.
c Expenses All expenses and finance costs are accounted for on an accruals basis.
An analysis of retained earnings broken down into revenue and capital items is given in note 17.
In arriving at this breakdown, expenses have been presented as revenue items except as follows: expenses which are incidental to the acquisition or disposal of an investment: expenses are presented as capital where a connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments can be demonstrated.
In this respect, the investment management fees are allocated 50% to revenue return and 50% to capital return to reflect the Boards expectations of long term investment returns.
One third of the management fees is deemed to relate to the administration of the Trust and charged to revenue.
The remainder is split on the same basis as finance costs see below and 50% charged to capital return.
The overall result is that two thirds of management fees are charged to revenue and one third to capital.
All performance fees are charged to capital return.
Expenses are allocated between the share classes as follows: management fees are charged separately to each share class administration costs incurred specifically by a single share class are charged to that class other corporate expenses are allocated to the share class in proportion to the share classes relative net asset values at the end of the previous accounting period.
d Finance costs The finance cost in respect of capital instruments other than equity shares is calculated so as to give a constant rate of return on the outstanding balance.
One half of the finance costs is charged to capital return.
Finance costs are allocated to the share class utilising the capital instrument.
TR Property Investment Trust 63 THE GROUP COMPANY Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued e Taxation Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity.
Otherwise income tax is recognised in the Group Income Statement.
The tax effect of different items of expenditure is allocated between capital and revenue for the Ordinary shares and the Sigma shares using the Groups effective rate of tax for the year.
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred taxation is provided using the liability method on all timing differences, calculated at the rate at which it is anticipated the timing differences will reverse.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only when, on the basis of available evidence, it is more likely than not that there will be taxable profits in the future against which the deferred tax asset can be offset.
The brought forward tax losses held within TR Property Investment Trust plc prior to the introduction of the new Sigma share class have been split between the Ordinary shares and the Sigma shares based on the proportion of ordinary shares converted to Sigma shares on 24 July 2007 18.9943%.
Tax losses will in the future only be transferred from one share class to another to the extent that there are insufficient current year losses available to the share class claiming the losses to cover the taxable income arising.
The Company is an investment trust under s. 842 Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 and, as such, is not liable for tax on capital gains.
Capital gains arising in subsidiary companies are subject to capital gains tax.
f Properties The purchase and sale of properties is recognised to be effected on the date unconditional contracts are exchanged.
g Investments When a purchase or sale is made under contract, the terms of which require delivery within the timeframe of the relevant market, the investments concerned are recognised or derecognised on the trade date.
All the Groups investments are defined under IFRS as investments designated as fair value through profit or loss but are also described in these financial statements as investments held at fair value.
All investments are designated upon initial recognition as held at fair value, and are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which, for quoted investments, is either the bid price or the last traded price, depending on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
Unquoted investments or investments for which there is only an inactive market are held at fair value which is based on valuations made by the directors in accordance with IPEVCA guidelines and using current market prices, trading conditions and the general economic climate.
Investment properties are revalued six-monthly by independent valuers.
The purchase and sale of properties is recognised to be effected on the date unconditional contracts are exchanged.
In its financial statements the Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at fair value, being their respective net asset values.
h Movements in fair value Changes in the fair value of all investments held at fair value are recognised in the Group Income Statement.
On disposal, realised gains and losses are also recognised in the Group Income Statement.
i Non-current liabilities All loans and debentures are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of the consideration received, less issue costs where applicable.
After initial recognition, all interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on settlement.
The costs of arranging any interest-bearing loans are capitalised and amortised over the life of the loan.
64 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY
