Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting continued ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade The Company proposes to adopt new Articles of and the highest current independent bid for an Association.
These incorporate amendments to the current Ordinary share or Sigma share in the Company on Articles of Association to reflect the provisions of the the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act which came, or will come, into effect in 2007 and 2008.
As the 2006 Act will The minimum price to be paid will be 25p per Ordinary not be fully in force until October 2009, and so it is not share and 12.5p per Sigma share being the nominal yet possible to fully reflect the 2006 Act changes, it is values.
The Listing Rules also limit a listed company to anticipated that shareholders will be asked to approve purchases of shares representing up to 15% of its issued further changes to the Articles of Association at the share capital through the market pursuant to a general 2009 AGM.
For this reason, the Company is limiting its authority to make such purchases to 4.99% of The principal changes in the new Articles of Association the Companys Ordinary and Sigma shares in issue at the proposed to be adopted at the 2008 AGM are explained in date of the AGM: this is equivalent to 38,599,250 the explanatory notes on pages 89 to 91 to this document.
Ordinary shares of 25p each nominal value 9,649,812 Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying and 19,124,242 Sigma shares of 12.5p each nominal nature and also some minor changes which merely reflect value 2,390,530 at 5 June 2008, the date of the changes made by the 2006 Act have not been noted.
The authority will last until the AGM new Articles of Association showing all the changes to the of the Company to be held in 2009 or, if earlier, 18 current Articles of Association are available for inspection at months from the passing of the resolution.
the Companys registered office at 51 Berkeley Square, London W1J 5BB and at The Royal Automobile Club for at A special resolution is one that requires a majority of at least 15 minutes prior to and during the AGM and each least 75% of those present and voting to be passed.
Resolution 12: Adoption of new Articles of Association Glossary of Terms Discount share, divide the Net Asset Value by the number of The amount by which the market price per share of an Ordinary shares in issue.
To calculate the Net Asset Investment Trust Company is lower than the Net Asset Value per Sigma share, divide the Net Asset Value by the Value per share.
The discount is normally expressed as a number of Sigma shares in issue.
percentage of the Net Asset Value per share.
Ordinary shares Dividend Yield Confer certain rights to the holder as laid down in the The annual dividend expressed as a percentage of the Articles of Association.
Premium Gearing The amount by which the market price per share of an Total debt comprising debentures, loan stock, bank loans Investment Trust Company exceeds the Net Asset Value and overdrafts less cash at bank and short term deposits per share.
The premium is normally expressed as a divided by shareholders funds.
Net Asset Value Sigma shares The value of the total assets less the liabilities.
Liabilities Confer certain rights to the holder as laid down in the for this purpose include both current and long-term Articles of Association.
To calculate the Net Asset Value per Ordinary 88 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY
