Explanatory Notes of Principal Changes to the Companys Articles of Association 1.
Articles which duplicate statutory provisions 5.
Votes of members Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions Under the Companies Act 2006 proxies are entitled to vote contained in the Companies Act 2006 are in the main to be on a show of hands whereas under the Current Articles removed in the New Articles.
This is in line with the proxies are only entitled to vote on a poll.
The time limits for approach advocated by the Government that statutory the appointment or termination of a proxy appointment have provisions should not be duplicated in a companys been altered by the Companies Act 2006 so that the constitution.
Certain examples of such provisions include articles cannot provide that they should be received more provisions as to the form of resolutions, the requirement to than 48 hours before the meeting or in the case of a poll keep accounting records and provisions regarding the taken more than 48 hours after the meeting, more than period of notice required to convene general meetings.
24 hours before the time for the taking of a poll, with The main changes made to reflect this approach are weekends and bank holidays being permitted to be detailed below.
The New Articles give the directors discretion, when calculating the time limits, to 2.
Form of resolution exclude weekend and bank holidays.
Multiple proxies may The Current Articles contain a provision that, where for any be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to purpose an ordinary resolution is required, a special or exercise the rights attached to a different share held by the extraordinary resolution is also effective and that, where an shareholder.
The New Articles reflect all of these new extraordinary resolution is required, a special resolution is provisions.
This provision is being removed as the concept of extraordinary resolutions has not been retained 6.
Age of directors on appointment under the Companies Act 2006.
Further, the remainder of The Current Articles contain a provision requiring a the provision is reflected in full in the Companies Act 2006. directors age to be disclosed if he has attained the age of 70 years or more in the notice convening a meeting at The Current Articles enable members to act by written which the director is proposed to be elected or re-elected.
Under the Companies Act 2006 public Such provision could now fall foul of the Employment companies can no longer pass written resolutions.
Equality Age Regulations 2006 and so has been removed These provisions have therefore been removed in the from the New Articles.
Retirement of directors by rotation 3.
Share certificates sent at holders risk In the Current Articles, there are three articles which relate The New Articles contain a provision which means that a to retirement by rotation.
In the New Articles these have share certificate is sent at the risk of the holder and that been combined and redrafted.
The concept of one third of the Company is not responsible for a share certificate which the directors retiring from office at each general meeting is lost or delayed in the course of delivery.
has been removed in the New Articles because it is no longer appropriate in view of the Combined Code 4.
Convening extraordinary and annual general requirement for directors to offer themselves for re-election meetings every 3 years.
The provisions in the Current Articles dealing with the convening of general meetings and the length of notice required to convene general meetings are being removed in the New Articles because the relevant matters are provided for in the Companies Act 2006.
In particular an extraordinary general meeting to consider a special resolution can be convened on 14 days notice whereas previously 21 days notice was required.
TR Property Investment Trust 89 THE GROUP COMPANY Explanatory Notes of Principal Changes to the Companys Articles of Association continued 8.
Notice of board meetings The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors general duties Under the Current Articles, when a director is abroad he which largely codify the existing law but with some changes.
can request that notice of directors meetings are sent to Under the Companies Act, from 1 October 2008 a director him at a specified address and if he does not do so he is must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or not entitled to receive notice while he is away.
This provision indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with has been removed, as modern communications mean that the companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and there may be no particular obstacle to giving notice to a could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of director who is abroad.
another company or a trustee of another organisation.
Records to be kept Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies The provision in the Current Articles requiring the Board to to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where keep accounting records has been removed as this appropriate, where the articles of association contain a requirement is contained in the Companies Act 2006. provision to this effect.
The Companies Act 2006 also allows the articles of association to contain other provisions 11.
Distribution of assets otherwise than in cash for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a The Current Articles contain provisions dealing with the breach of duty.
The New Articles give the directors authority distribution of assets in kind in the event of the Company to approve such situations and to include other provisions to going into liquidation.
These provisions have been removed allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to in the New Articles on the grounds that a provision about the current position.
the powers of liquidators is a matter for insolvency law rather than the articles and that the Insolvency Act 1986 There are safeguards which will apply when directors confers powers on the liquidator which would enable it to decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
do what is envisaged by the Current Articles.
First, only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and 12.
Electronic and web communications secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act in a Provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which came into way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to force in January 2007 enable companies to communicate promote the companys success.
The directors will be able with members by electronic and or website to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if communications.
The New Articles continue to allow they think this is appropriate.
communications to members in electronic form and, in addition, they also permit the Company to take advantage It is also proposed that the New Articles should contain of the new provisions relating to website communications.
provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at Before the Company can communicate with a member by board meetings and availability of board papers to protect a means of website communication, the relevant member director being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or must be asked individually by the Company to agree that potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only the Company may send or supply documents or information apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict to him by means of a website, and the Company must has previously been authorised by the directors.
It is the either have received a positive response or have received Boards intention to report annually on the Companys no response within the period of 28 days beginning with procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers of the date on which the request was sent.
The Company will authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and that notify the member either in writing, or by other permitted the procedures have been followed.
means when a relevant document or information is placed on the website and a member can always request a hard copy version of the document or information.
90 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Explanatory Notes of Principal Changes to the Companys Articles of Association continued 13.
Directors indemnities and loans to fund expenditure The Current Articles permit the Company to indemnify directors, other officers or auditors against any liability and to purchase and maintain insurance against any liability for such persons.
It is proposed that the New Articles are amended to reflect the relevant sections in the Companies Act 2006: all references to officers have been removed because the statutory provisions do not extend to liabilities of officers other than directors and, similarly, the provision no longer refer to auditors to reflect institutional investor guidelines that liability insurance should not extend to auditors.
It is also proposed that the wording in the New Articles is amended to clarify that directors are not accountable for any benefit provided by virtue of the insurance taken out and that the receipt of such benefit does not disqualify any person from being or becoming a director of the Company.
General Generally the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer language into the New Articles.
TR Property Investment Trust 91 THE GROUP COMPANY
