Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the preparing the Annual Report and the directors are required to prepare financial financial statements in accordance with statements for each financial year which applicable laws and regulations.
The give a true and fair view of the state of directors are required to prepare financial affairs of the Company and of the pro t statements for the Group in accordance or loss of the Company for that period.
In with International Financial Reporting preparing these financial statements, the Standards IFRS and have chosen to directors are required to: prepare financial statements for the Company in accordance with United select suitable accounting policies and Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting then apply them consistently: Practice UK GAAP.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and In the case of IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that state whether applicable accounting financial statements present fairly standards have been followed.
for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance The directors con rm that they have and cash ows.
This requires the complied with the above requirements in faithful representation of the effects preparing the financial statements.
The of transactions, other events and directors further con rm that the Report conditions in accordance with the of the Directors includes a fair review of fide nitions and recognition criteria for the development and performance of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses business and the position of the Company set out in the International Accounting and the Group, together with a description Standards Boards Framework for of the principal risks and uncertainties that the Preparation and Presentation of they face.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be The directors are responsible for keeping achieved by compliance with all applicable proper accounting records which disclose International Financial Reporting with reasonable accuracy at any time Standards.
Directors are also required to: the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking select and apply accounting policies reasonable steps for the prevention properly: and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a present information, including Directors Report and Report on Directors accounting policies, in a manner that Remuneration which comply with the provides relevant, reliable, comparable requirements of the Companies Acts 1985 and understandable information: and and 2006. provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speci c The directors are responsible for the requirements in IFRS is insuf cient to maintenance and integrity of the Company enable users to understand the impact website.
Legislation in the United of particular transactions, other events Kingdom governing the preparation and and conditions on the entitys financial dissemination of financial statements position and financial performance.
differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 43 shareholder information financial statements governance business review financial statements In this section: Group Company 45 Independen t Auditors Report 87 Independen t Auditors Report to the Members of Tullett to the Members of Tullett Prebon plc Prebon plc 46 Consolidated Income 88 Company Balance Sheet Statement 89 Notes to the F inancial 47 Consolidated Statement Statements of Recognised Income and Expense 48 Consolidated Balance Sheet 49 C onsolidated Cash Flow Statement 50 Notes to the C onsolidated Financial Statements For more information please visit: 44 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 www.
