Notice of Annual General Meeting Tullett Prebon plc Registered in England no.
5807599 Notice is hereby given that the Annual Ordinary Business all proposed as Special Business General Meeting of Tullett Prebon plc Ordinary Resolutions To consider and, if thought t, pass the the Company will be held at Tower 42, To consider and, if thought t, pass the following resolutions, of which resolution Level 37, 25 Old Broad Street, London following resolutions: 7 will be proposed as an ordinary EC2N 1HQ on 14 May 2009 at 2.30pm.
resolution and resolutions 8-10 as special The business of the meeting will be: 1.
To receive the audited accounts for the resolutions: year ended 31 December 2008 together with the reports of the directors and the Ordinary Resolution auditors thereon.
To approve the report on directors a in accordance with article 6 of the remuneration.
Companys Articles of Association: i the directors be authorised to 3.
To re-elect as a director Keith Hamill allot relevant securities up to an Chairman,.
aggregate nominal amount of 17,942,799: and further 4.
To re-elect as a director Terry Smith Chief Executive.
ii the directors be authorised to allot relevant securities up Member Nominations Committee to an additional aggregate Remuneration Committee.
nominal amount of 17,942,799 in connection with a rights 5.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors issue as fide ned in article 7 of the Company to hold of ce from of the Companys Articles of the conclusion of the meeting until Association : the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid b this authority shall expire at the and to authorise the Board to x their conclusion of the next Annual remuneration.
General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution 6.
That a final dividend in respect of the or, if earlier, on 1 July 2010: and year ended 31 December 2008 be c all previous unutilised authorities declared payable at the rate of 8.0p per under S80 of the Companies Act share on 21 May 2009 to shareholders 1985 shall cease to have effect save registered at the close of business on to the extent that the same are 1 May 2009. exercisable pursuant to S80 7 of the Companies Act 1985 by reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the date of this resolution, which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted on or after that date.
For more information please visit: 96 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 www.
com Special Resolutions c the maximum price which may be 8.
That: paid for an ordinary share shall not be more than the higher of 105% of a in accordance with article 7 of the the average of the middle market Companys Articles of Association, quotations for an ordinary share the directors be given power to allot derived from the Daily Of cial List equity securities for cash: of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately b the power under paragraph a preceding the day on which the above other than in connection ordinary share is purchased and the with article 7 a i of the Companys amount stipulated by Article 5 1 Articles of Association shall be of the Buy-back and Stabilisation limited to the allotment of equity Regulations 2003 exclusive of securities having a nominal expenses payable by the Company in amount not exceeding in aggregate connection with the purchase : 2,691,420: d the authority hereby conferred shall c this authority shall expire at the expire at the conclusion of the next conclusion of the next Annual Annual General Meeting of the General Meeting of the Company Company or, if earlier, on 1 July 2010 after the passing of this resolution unless renewed before that time: or, if earlier, on 1 July 2010: and and d all previous authorities under S95 of e the Company may enter into the Companies Act 1985 shall cease contracts to purchase ordinary to have effect.
shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such 9.
That, in accordance with article authority, which contracts will or 11 of the Companys Articles of may be executed wholly or partly Association and the Companies Act after the expiry of such authority, 1985, the Company be generally and and may make purchases of ordinary unconditionally authorised to make shares pursuant to any such market purchases as fide ned by S163 of contracts.
the Companies Act 1985 of its ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of 10.
That, in accordance with the the Company ordinary shares on Companys Articles of Association, a such terms and in such manner as the general meeting other than an Annual directors of the Company determine, General Meeting may be called on not provided that: less than 14 clear days notice.
a the maximum number of ordinary By order of the Board shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 21,531,358: Alistair Peel b the minimum price which may be Company Secretary paid for an ordinary share shall be 10 March 2009 25p exclusive of expenses payable by the Company in connection with Registered of ce: the purchase : Tower 42, Level 37 25 Old Broad Street London EC2N 1HQ Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 97 shareholder information financial statements governance business review Notice of Annual General Meeting Tullett Prebon plc Registered in England no.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy 9.
The statements of the rights of members 1.
Every member who is entitled to attend and or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy in relation to the appointment of proxies in vote at this meeting is entitled to appoint one or appointment service may do so by using paragraphs 1, 2, 4 and 5 above do not apply to a more proxies to exercise all or any of his rights procedures described in the CREST manual.
The rights described in these to attend and to speak and vote instead of him personal members or other CREST sponsored paragraphs can only be exercised by registered at the meeting.
A member may appoint more members, and those CREST members who have members of the Company.
than one proxy in relation to a meeting provided appointed a voting service provider s, should refer 10.
Nominated persons are reminded that they should that each proxy is appointed to exercise the to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, rights attached to a different share or shares who will be able to take the appropriate action on contact the registered holder of their shares and held by him.
A proxy need not be a member of their behalf.
not the Company on matters relating to their the Company.
Appointment of proxies does not investments in the Company.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction preclude members from attending and voting at 11.
As at 9 April 2009 being the last business day prior the meeting should they wish to do so.
A form made using the CREST service to be valid, the of proxy is enclosed: alternatively if you hold appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy to publication of this notice, the Companys issued shares in uncerti cated form ie in CREST you Instruction must be properly authenticated in share capital consists of 215,313,584 ordinary accordance with CRESTCos speci cations and shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total may vote using the CREST system please see the voting rights in the Company as at 9 April 2009 are notes below.
must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
To be valid, an instrument appointing a proxy in hard copy form together with a power of attorney 6.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST 12.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate sponsors or voting service providers should note representatives at the annual general meeting, or other authority if any under which it is signed arrangements will be put in place at the meeting or a certi ed copy thereof must be deposited that CRESTCo does not make available special at the of ce of the Companys registrars, Capita procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
so that a if a corporate shareholder has appointed Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Normal system timings and limitations will the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST representative with instructions to vote on a poll in Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU not less than 48 hours accordance with the directions of all of the other before the time of the meeting.
It is the responsibility of the you submit your proxy electronically through CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST corporate representatives for that shareholder CREST, to be valid, the appropriate CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate member or has appointed a voting service provider, representatives will give voting directions to the message regardless of whether it relates to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service the instruction given to a previously appointed provider takes such action as shall be necessary a vote as corporate representative in accordance proxy must be transmitted so as to be received to ensure that a message is transmitted by means with those directions: and b if more than one of the CREST system by any particular time.
In corporate representative for the same corporate by the Companys registrars, Capita Registrars ID shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate RA10 by no later than 48 hours before the time of this connection, CREST members and, where the meeting.
The time of receipt will be taken to be applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service shareholder has not appointed the Chairman the time as determined by the timestamp applied providers are referred, in particular, to those of the meeting as its corporate representative, sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical a designated corporate representative will be to the message by the CREST Applications Host nominated, from those corporate representatives from which Capita Registrars are able to retrieve limitations of the CREST system and timings.
the message by enquiry to CREST.
who attend, who will vote on a poll and the 7.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy other corporate representatives will give 3.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerti cated Instruction in the circumstances set out in voting directions to that designated corporate Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerti cated Securities representative.
Corporate shareholders are Securities Regulations 2001 changes to entries in the register of members after 6.00pm on Regulations 2001. referred to the guidance issued by the Institute Tuesday, 12 May 2009 or on the date two days of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on before any adjourned meeting as the case may 8.
A person to whom this notice is sent who is a proxies and corporate representatives www.
person nominated under S146 of the Companies org.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The be shall be disregarded in determining the Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated rights of any member to attend and vote at the guidance includes a sample form of appointment meeting or adjourned meeting as the case may Person may, under an agreement between him letter if the Chairman is being appointed as be.
Accordingly, only a member registered in the and the shareholder by whom he was nominated, described in a above.
have a right to be appointed or to have someone register of members of the Company as at 6.00pm else appointed as a proxy for the annual general 13.
The reasons for the special business are explained on Tuesday, 12 May 2009 or on the date two days before the meeting or any adjourned meeting shall meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy in the Report of the Directors.
be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting or appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such agreement, have a right 14.
Brief biographical notes about the directors any adjourned meeting in respect of the number of to give instructions to the shareholder as to the proposed to be elected or re-elected are shown shares registered in his name at that time.
on pages 26 and 27 of the Annual Report.
The exercise of voting rights.
Corporate Governance Report set out in the Annual Report provides additional information recommended by the Combined Code.
For more information please visit: 98 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 www.
