Directors Report: Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting and the financial statements.
The directors are required to records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of EU IFRS and have also elected to prepare financial statements fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a for the Company in accordance with IFRS.
Company law Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report which requires the directors to prepare such financial statements in comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985. accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, Statement under DTR 4.1.
12 other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions The directors as at the date of this report, who are listed on and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and page 2, each confirm to the best of their knowledge that: expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
The directors position and profit or loss of the Company and the subsidiary are also required to: undertaking included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and properly select and apply accounting policies consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a b the management report, which is incorporated into the manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and Directors Report, includes a fair review of the development and understandable information: and performance of the business and the position of the Company provide additional disclosures when compliance with the and the subsidiary undertaking included in the consolidation specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal understand the impact of particular transactions, other risks and uncertainties that they face.
events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
For and on behalf of the Board H M Henderson The directors confirm that they have complied with the above Chairman requirements in preparing the financial statements.
6 March 2009 Note to those who access this document by electronic means The annual report for the year ended 31 December 2008 has been approved by the Board of Witan Investment Trust plc and circulated to the Companys shareholders in hard copy format.
It is also made available in electronic format for the convenience of readers.
However, the Board cannot accept responsibility for guaranteeing the integrity of the document in electronic format.
Printed copies are available from the Companys Registered Ofce in London.
