Marketing Review 2008 James Frost Witans marketing objective is to promote awareness of the Trust and therefore stimulate demand for its shares.
This in turn provides a level of liquidity which boosts the share price and allows shareholders to purchase and sell shares at a price accurately reflecting the performance and rating of the Trust.
The presence Witan of liquidity in investment trust shares is increasingly important in an I went environment where demand can drop, discounts slip and price spreads widen.
All of Witans marketing is measured and the results are reported to the Board, to window ensure our activity is effective, adheres to our key objectives, and above all shopping today.
provides value for money to shareholders.
2008 was a very eventful year for Witan with three new managers appointed to the multi-manager roster, a new Chief Executive and Chief Investment Officer, and not forgetting one of the most hostile years in living memory for equity investors.
wisdom We pride ourselves on our transparency.
So get in touch and well give you the story behind our success.
The volatile market conditions had a significant impact on investor sentiment, in Heres a breath of fresh air for investors.
At Witan we investment decisions not to one company, but to a team particular towards the end of the year.
Private investors seemed to lose their believe in being completely open about the way we of hand-picked, best of breed experts whose historic invest your money.
While some organisations prefer to results prove that they can more than deliver on their, hide behind a veil of secrecy, were quite happy to and our, target.
appetite for equity based investments altogether.
For the Witan Wealthbuilder let light in on magic and tell you all about our multiThis flexible strategy allows us to keep an eye on the key manager strategy.
global players and add to our crack team if we spot platform, inflows fell marginally during the year.
However the number of sales of Its an approach we adopted in 2004, and its designed a manager whos performing particularly well.
In 2008, to help us ensure steady long-term growth by entrusting three new managers joined our team.
Witan shares fell considerably when compared with 2007.
The savings for And it also means we can indulge in the odd spot of defenestration jettisoning any managers who fail to meet children market on the other hand remained fruitful for Witan.
Jump, Witans our exacting standards.
Please remember, past performance is not a guide to future performance, and the value of your shares and savings plan for children, saw inflows increase year-on-year, a tremendous the income from them can rise and fall, so you may not get back the amount originally invested.
For a fuller achievement given the weak investor sentiment.
In April, Jump launched its own picture visit www.
Child Trust Fund account, to complement the Savings Plan that has now been in 0800 082 81 80 www.
com existence for more than 9 years.
The CTF market provides a significant new area Please quote reference XXXX when calling.
of demand for Witan shares, as the parents of every new born baby are now given Issued and approved by Witan Investment Services Limited.
Witan Investment Services Limited is registered in England no.
Witan Investment Services Limited provides investment products and services and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services a voucher that has to be invested in a CTF account.
Calls may be recorded for our mutual protection and to improve customer service.
Within the intermediary and discretionary wealth manager marketplace, we have continued to encourage investment in Witan by stressing the benefits of our multi-managed investment approach.
One area that we have focused on during 2008 has been to increase the profile of the underlying managers within Witans portfolio.
A key selling point is our ability to pick good managers.
This has been Witan a particularly effective message: as you will have seen from earlier in the report, Those who trust to chance must 8 out of the Trusts 13 managers are in the 1st quartile since inception when abide by compared to the relevant IMA sector.
the results Witan Investment Services WIS, Witans subsidiary company, had its second full of chance.
year of business, and again generated a healthy profit.
The income derived from Calvin Coolidge.
WIS is used to offset the cost of the administration of Witans savings plans.
wisdom More astute investors, however, prefer to trust their money 2009 to our multi-manager team of experts.
You can bet your bottom dollar that some of our rivals were were right.
The table here shows that weve delivered 2009 is likely to be a difficult year for the financial services industry.
The volatile sceptical about our decision to adopt a multi-manager 33.82% since going multi-manager, which puts us in the strategy way back in 2004.
And no doubt a few of them 1st Quartile of the IMA Active Managed Sector.
now feel like lemons for not having had the same insight.
market conditions witnessed during September and October 2008, coupled with 30.09.04 30.09.08 We reckoned that, rather than trusting our fortunes thats Witan Investment Trust 33.82% your clients hard-earned cash to the whims of a single the onset of a global recession, provide a very challenging environment.
As such expert, wed be better off recruiting a team of proven, best Quartile ranking 1st of breed specialists from around the globe, whose All performance figures share price total return.
Witans quartile ranking when measured against the IMA Active Managed Sector.
combined opinions and insights would provide a more we expect investors to be fairly thin on the ground.
However, as the popularity Period from Witan becoming multi-managed.
And weve continued to stay true to our objectives, And as our shiny new publication, the Witan Investment of Jump in the aftermath of the tech bubble testifies, a good product, marketed cherrypicking the best talent from around the globe adding Handbook, makes abundantly clear, it seems our instincts three new specialist managers, Artemis, Marathon and Varenne in 2008. well, can flourish even in the most hostile market conditions.
In light of these To find out more, request your copy of the Witan Investment Handbook by visiting www.
com, or conditions we will focus our attention on areas that we know work well, and will calling 020 7227 9770. yield the maximum level of response.
Furthermore, we intend to maximise the use of lower cost distribution channels such as the internet.
Please quote reference XXXX when calling.
We will continue to deploy a wide range of activities across the full marketing Please remember, past performance is not a guide to future performance, and the value of shares and the income from them can rise and fall, so investors may not get back the amount originally invested.
This marketing communication is issued and approved by Witan Investment Services Limited and is for use by financial advisers only.
Witan Investment Services Limited provides investment products and services and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
mix, including advertising, direct mail, public and investor relations, e-commerce and sponsorship.
Good marketing should be innovative, creative, and thought provoking, but what really matters is whether it works, and that it 66 generates new investment into Witan.
To this end all marketing CTF voucher or for investors who would prefer more activity will be tracked and reported to the the Board on a investment flexibility than the CTF allows.
Both the Jump regular basis.
Savings Plan and the CTF give parents, grandparents and other adults the chance to save effectively for children over How to invest the long term.
Minimum lump-sum investments start at just There are a variety of ways to invest in Witan Investment Trust 50, regular contributions can be made from as little as 25 plc.
Naturally Witans shares can be traded through any UK a month or quarter.
However, Witan is also available for investment more information and application forms.
through the Witan Wealthbuilder savings platform managed by Further information on all products is available by calling Witan Investment Services.
Witan Wealthbuilder offers different 0800 082 81 80 or online via www.
If you would savings wrappers which carry the benefits of income prefer to write to request further information the address is: reinvestment, regular saving and tax efficient investment.
These Witan Wealthbuilder PO Box 4605 Affording children, a users guide.
Worthing West Sussex BN99 6QY Investors are reminded that the value of investments and the income from them may go down as well as up and investors may not get back the amount originally amount originally invested.
Tax benefits may change if the law changes and their value will Age 4: But Sams got one!
Age 8: Emmas going to Jamaica with her mummy and daddy.
Age 13: But everyones going on the skiing trip.
Issued and approved by Witan Investment Services Limited.
Age 17: Driving lessons are really cheap these days, dad.
Age 25: Well it might not exactly be a white wedding.
Witan Age 28: Were calling him Harold after you.
Investment Services provides investment products and services Theres only one book thats going to help you at every stage of your darling ones development: Money: Your Children, Their Future by Sally Hamilton.
And goodness knows every parent needs it.
Luckily for you the first step in looking after your childrens future is to find out more about Jump investments and the Jump Child Trust Fund.
Better yet, when you request a brochure, well send you a copy of Sally Hamiltons indispensable guide, worth 6.99, absolutely free and with no obligation whatsoever.
Witan Dont be stuck for an answer to the inevitable demands, get in touch with Jump today.
com Ref XXXX Make three correct guesses Please note this is a limited offer.
Offer applies to the first 10,000 requests made before 31.12.08. consecutively and you will As Jump is an equity investment, please remember that past performance is not a guide to future performance, and the value of your shares and the income from them can rise and fall, so you may not get back the amount originally invested.
Witan Investment Services Limited provides investment products and services and is authorised and regulated by the establish Financial Services Authority.
saving schemes may be purchased online, by telephone or Laurence J. Peter.
Online dealing is fixed at 15 per trade while wisdom telephone and postal business is charged at 1% per deal subject Add three expert stockpickers to the team, like Witan, and youll to a minimum of 1.25. confirm your determination to add alpha to your portfolio.
When it comes to providing the best possible service for alpha by applying their individual tried and tested your clients, the trick is being able to spot opportunities.
The Share Plan is a straightforward savings scheme with a And at Witan, we pride ourselves on the ability to do just The Handbook explains why we believe that in Artemis that which is why the Witan Investment Handbook Investment Management, Marathon Asset Management gives details of the three new managers weve recently minimum lump sum investment from 500 and or regular and Varenne Capital Partners, weve found exactly the added to our multi-manager team.
right people to help us ensure that our globally Not just any managers, you understand, but diversified, relatively low-risk fund becomes a better saving from 50 per month or quarter.
expert stockpickers, who, through rigorous research, place for your clients to invest than ever.
weve identified as being well equipped to generate So, if you want your clients to benefit from the expertise a best of breed multi-manager team can bring to The ISA enables investors to save efficiently up to a limit of long-term investment, what should you do?
Well give you three guesses.
Minimum lump sum investment is Well simply suggest you request your copy of our Investment Handbook at www.
2,000 with regular savings from 50 per month.
The Transfer ISA allows investors to transfer all or any number of their existing ISA holdings to Witan Please remember, past performance is not a guide to future performance, and the value of shares and the income from them can rise and fall, so investors may not get back the amount originally invested.
The investments retain their tax free status during and after transfer.
and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Jump, Witans savings scheme for children, now comes in Authority.
We may record telephone calls for our mutual two flavours, the Child Trust Fund CTF and the Savings protection and to improve customer service.
The CTF is for new born children who are entitled to receive the 250 voucher issued by the Government.
The Savings Plan is for older children who dont qualify for the 67
