Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and first Annual as a Special Resolution General Meeting of Witan Investment Trust plc will be held at 10 THAT the Company be generally and unconditionally Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2R authorised to make market purchases within the meaning 8JB on Tuesday 28 April 2009 at 2.30 pm for the following of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of 3.4 per purposes: cent Cumulative Preference Shares of 1 each and 2.7 per cent Cumulative Preference Shares of 1 each in the capital Ordinary Business of the Company Preference Shares, provided that: 1 To receive the directors report and the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008. a the maximum number of Preference Shares hereby 2 To receive and approve the directors remuneration report authorised to be purchased shall be the entire issued capital for the year ended 31 December 2008. amount of the Preference Shares as at 6 March 2009, the 3 To elect Mr R E Clarke as a director of the Company.
date of this Notice of Annual General Meeting, being i 2,055,000 of the 3.4 per cent Cumulative Preference Shares 4 To elect Mrs M C Claydon as a director of the Company.
of 1 each and ii 500,000 of the 2.7 per cent Cumulative 5 To re-elect Mr H M Henderson as a director of the Company.
Preference Shares of 1 each: 6 To re-elect Mr R H McGrath as a director of the Company.
b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may 7 To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors to the Company.
be paid for a Preference Share is 1: 8 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be Special Business paid for a Preference Share is an amount equal to 105% of To consider and, if thought t, pass the following resolutions: the average middle market quotations for the relevant as a Special Resolution Preference Share taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the business day immediately 9 THAT the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning preceding the day on which the Company agrees to purchase of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary the relevant Preference Share, or such other amount as may be specified by the UK Listing Authority from time to time: shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares, provided that: d the authority hereby conferred will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 32,086,252 in 2010 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 18 months from the representing approximately 14.99% of the issued ordinary passing of this resolution, unless such authority is renewed, share capital of the Company at 6 March 2009, the date of varied or revoked prior to such time: and this Notice of Annual General Meeting : e the Company may make a contract to purchase b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may Preference Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be be paid for an Ordinary Share is 25p: executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may authority and may make a purchase of Preference Shares pursuant to any such contract.
be paid for an Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial By order of the Board List for the five business days immediately preceding the G S Rice day on which the Company agrees to purchase an Ordinary Share, or such other amount as may be specified by the UK For and on behalf of Listing Authority from time to time: Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, Secretary d the authority hereby conferred will expire at the 6 March 2009 conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2010 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 18 months from the Registered Ofce passing of this resolution, unless such authority is renewed, 201 Bishopsgate varied or revoked prior to such time: and London EC2M 3AE Telephone: 020 7818 1818 Registered as an investment company in England and Wales e the Company may make a contract to purchase No.
101625 Ordinary Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant to any such contract.
62 Notes specications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the 1 Only those ordinary shareholders registered in the CREST Manual.
The message regardless of whether it register of members of the Company at close of constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an business on Sunday 26 April 2009 or, if the Meeting is amendment to the instruction given to a previously adjourned, at close of business on the day which is two appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be days prior to the adjourned Meeting shall be entitled transmitted so as to be received by the Companys to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting the agent ID number 3RA50 by not later than 48 hours Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered before the time appointed for the holding of the in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the meeting i. e. by 2.30 pm on Saturday 26 April 2008. relevant register of securities after close of business on For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be 26 April 2009 will be disregarded in determining the the time as determined by the timestamp applied to rights of any person to attend or vote and the number the message by the CREST Applications Host from of votes they may cast at the Meeting or adjourned which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the Meeting.
message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed 2 An ordinary shareholder entitled to attend and vote at by CREST.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST the Meeting may appoint one or more proxies who Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in need not be a member of the Company to exercise all Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities or any of his or her rights to attend, speak and vote at Regulations 2001. the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to 4 This notice is sent for information only to holders of exercise the rights attaching to different shares held by the preference shares and the debenture stock who are the ordinary shareholder.
not entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting.
If two or more valid proxy forms are delivered or 5 The Chief Executive Ofcers service agreement will be received in respect of the same share for use at the same available for inspection at the Meeting.
Meeting, the one which was last sent shall be treated as replacing and revoking the others in their entirety.
If 6 The attendance at the Meeting of members and their the Company is unable to determine the one which proxies and representatives is understood by the was last sent, none of them shall be valid in respect of Company to confirm their agreement to receive any that share.
communications made at the Meeting.
Every ordinary shareholder who is present in person at 7 As at 5 March 2009 being the latest business day prior a general meeting of the Company, and every person to the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued not being himself or herself a member entitled to vote ordinary share capital consists of 214,051,054 ordinary who is present as proxy for a member entitled to vote, shares of 25p each.
On a poll ordinary shareholders shall have one vote on a show of hands.
On a poll, have one vote for every 1 in nominal value i. e. four every ordinary shareholder who is present in person or ordinary shares are required for one vote.
The by proxy shall have one vote for every 1 nominal Company does not hold any ordinary shares in treasury.
value of shares held by him or her.
Accordingly, on a Therefore the total voting rights in the Company are poll each ordinary shareholder has one vote for every 214,051,054. four shares held.
8 In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives 3 A form of proxy is enclosed.
To be valid the form of at the Meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the proxy must be completed and delivered to the ofce of Meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has the Registrar to the Company not less than 48 hours appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate before the time appointed for holding the Meeting.
The representative with instructions to vote on a poll in form of proxy should be returned in an envelope accordance with the directions of all of the other addressed to Computershare Investor Services PLC, The corporate representatives for that shareholder at the Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS13 8FB.
The return Meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives of the form of proxy duly completed will not preclude a will give voting directions to the Chairman and the member from attending and voting in person at the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate Meeting.
representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or same corporate shareholder attends the Meeting but the proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman appointment service may do so by utilising the of the Meeting as its corporate representative, a procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST designated corporate representative will be nominated, Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, from those corporate representatives who attend, who and those CREST members who have appointed a will vote on a poll and the other corporate voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST representatives will give voting directions to that sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able designated corporate representative.
Corporate to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in for further details of this procedure.
The guidance accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited's EUI 63 PRINCES STREET F I N S B POULTRY U GRESHAM ST. WORMWOOD STREET LIVERPOOL STREET R LONDON WALL Y LOTHBURY CORNHILL C LEADENHALL STREET Notice of Annual General Meeting continued includes a sample form of representation letter if the However, a Nominated Person may have a right under Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
an agreement between him and the member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the 9 A copy of this notice has been sent for information only Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a to persons who have been nominated by a member to Nominated Person does not have such a right or does enjoy information rights under section 146 of the not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person.
The rights an agreement to give instructions to the member as to to appoint a proxy cannot be exercised by a Nominated the exercise of voting rights.
Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
Annual General Meeting Venue Liverpool St Location of Merchant Taylors Hall Moorgate Merchant Taylors Hall is located at 30 Threadneedle Street in the City of London.
It is a few minutes walk from Liverpool Street Station and from Bank Underground Station.
THROGMORTON STREET Merchant Taylors Hall Bank The Annual General Meeting will be held on Tuesday 28 April 2009 at 2.30 pm.
64 I R C T U E THREADNEEDLE STREET S E R T S E T O L D B R O A A D L G L S BISHO P A IRONMONGER LANE OLD JEWRY MOORGATE H COLEMAN STREET BLOMFIELD STREET G THROGMORTON AVE N I S A B
