Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
The adoption of these interpretations has not led to any changes in the Groups Centrica plc is a Company domiciled and incorporated in the accounting policies and has had no impact on the Financial United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address Statements of the Group.
of the registered office is given on page 43.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 6 b Standards, amendments and interpretations that are and in the Directors Report Business Review on pages 8 to 34. not yet effective and that have not been early adopted by the Group The consolidated Financial Statements of Centrica plc are At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the presented in pounds sterling.
Operations and transactions following standards, amendments to existing standards and conducted in currencies other than pounds sterling are included in interpretations which have not been applied in these Financial the consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with the Statements were in issue but not yet effective: foreign currencies accounting policy set out in note 2. x IAS 23 Amendment, Borrowing Costs, effective from 1 January 2009.
The amendment requires an entity to capitalise borrowing 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or ACCOUNTING POLICIES production of a qualifying asset one that takes a substantial The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of period of time to get ready for use or sale as part of the cost of these consolidated Financial Statements are set out below.
The option of immediately expensing such borrowing These policies have been consistently applied to all the years costs will be removed.
The Group will adopt IAS 23 Amended presented, unless otherwise stated.
from 1 January 2009, which will require a change to the Groups existing accounting policy, where such costs are immediately Basis of preparation expensed.
The Group will adopt IAS 23 Amended retrospectively The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in and apply a commencement date of 1 January 2008 for accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS qualifying projects subject to borrowing cost capitalisation.
as adopted by the European Union EU and therefore comply with Based on current investment plans, the estimated impact of Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
adopting IAS 23 Amended in 2009 would be to capitalise The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on the approximately 30 million of borrowing costs directly attributable historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments and to the acquisition, construction and production of qualifying available-for-sale financial assets, and the assets and liabilities of assets, resulting in an increase to the net book value of property, the Group pension schemes that have been measured at fair plant and equipment by approximately 30 million and a value.
The carrying values of recognised assets and liabilities that reduction to interest expense by approximately 30 million for are hedged items in fair value hedges, and are otherwise carried at the year ended 31 December 2009.
The impact on cost, are adjusted to record changes in the fair values attributable comparatives would be an increase in the net book value of to the risks that are being hedged.
The principal accounting property, plant and equipment for borrowing costs capitalised policies adopted are set out below.
and a reduction to interest expense of approximately 10 million: x IFRS 8, Operating Segments, effective from 1 January 2009.
The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with IFRS This standard replaces IAS 14, Segment Reporting and requires requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It requires segmental information reported to be based on that which management to exercise its judgement in the processes of Directors use internally for evaluating the performance of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a operating segments.
The Group will adopt IFRS 8 with effect higher degree of judgement, complexity or areas where from 1 January 2009.
The impact of adopting IFRS 8 on the assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated Group is under assessment: Financial Statements are described in note 3. x Improvements to IFRSs contains amendments to various a Standards, amendments and interpretations effective existing standards.
The amendments are effective, in most in 2008 cases, from 1 January 2009, or otherwise for annual periods In 2008 an amendment to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The impact of adopting Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Improvements to IFRSs will result in the Group reclassifying Disclosures was issued.
The amendment was endorsed by the EU certain derivative financial assets and certain derivative financial on 15 October 2008.
The amendment permits entities to reclassify liabilities from current to non-current in the Groups Balance certain financial assets held for trading to either the held to Sheet with effect from 1 January 2009: maturity, loans and receivables or available-for-sale categories.
x IFRS 3 Revised, Business Combinations, effective for annual The amendment also allows transfers of certain financial assets periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 subject to EU from available-for-sale to loans and receivables.
The revised standard continues to apply the the amendment has had no impact on the Financial Statements acquisition method to business combinations with some of the Group.
For example, all payments to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair value at acquisition date, Three interpretations issued by the International Financial with contingent payments classified as debt subsequently reReporting Interpretations Committee are effective for the current measured through the income statement.
These are IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share costs should be expensed.
There is a choice on an , IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements and by-acquisition basis to measure the non-controlling interest in IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum 62 C Centrica p58-144.
indd 62 1 10 3 09 15:48:07 0 3 09 15:48:07 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 the acquiree at either fair value or at the non-controlling x IAS 39 Amendment, Financial Instruments: Recognition and interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
Measurement Eligible Hedged Items, effective for annual The Group will adopt IFRS 3 Revised prospectively to all periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, subject to EU business combinations from 1 January 2010, subject to endorsement.
EU endorsement: c Changes of accounting presentation x IAS 27 Revised, Consolidated and Separate Financial The Group has adopted the following change of accounting Statements, effective for annual periods beginning on or after presentation in the year: 1 July 2009, subject to EU endorsement.
The revised standard x Centrica Storage enters into gas sales and gas purchases as requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling part of its normal trading activity to optimise the performance interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control of the storage facility.
Sales and purchases relating to this and these transactions will no longer result in goodwill or gains optimisation activity are presented net within revenue.
The revised standard also specifies the accounting the Group presented such activity gross within revenue and cost when control is lost.
Any remaining interest in the entity is of sales with sales reported as revenue and purchases reported re-measured to fair value, and a gain or loss is recognised as cost of sales.
The Directors consider the change of in profit or loss.
The Group will apply IAS 27 Revised presentation better reflects the nature of this activity.
The impact prospectively from 1 January 2010, subject to EU of the change of accounting presentation is to reduce Group endorsement: and revenue and cost of sales by 263 million in 2008.
The impact x IFRIC 18, Transfers of Assets from Customers, issued on on comparatives is to reduce Group revenue and cost of sales 29 January 2009, subject to EU endorsement.
interpretation clarifies the accounting for agreements in which an d Income statement presentation entity receives from a customer an item of property, plant and The Groups Income Statement and segmental note separately equipment that the entity must use either to connect the identify the effects of re-measurement of certain financial customer to a network or to provide the customer with ongoing instruments, and items which are exceptional, in order to provide access to a supply of goods or services, such as a supply of readers with a clear and consistent presentation of the Groups electricity or gas.
It also applies to agreements in which an entity underlying performance, as described below.
receives cash from a customer which must be used to acquire or construct the item of property, plant and equipment in order Certain re-measurements to connect the customer to a network or provide the customer As part of its energy procurement activities the Group enters into with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services.
IFRIC 18 a range of commodity contracts designed to achieve security of requires entities to apply the interpretation prospectively to energy supply.
These contracts comprise both purchases and transfers of assets from customers received on or after sales and cover a wide range of volumes, prices and timescales.
The impact to the Group of adopting IFRIC 18 The majority of the underlying supply comes from high volume is under assessment.
long-term contracts which are complemented by short-term arrangements.
These short-term contracts are entered into for the The Directors anticipate that the adoption of the following purpose of balancing energy supplies and customer demand and amendments to standards and interpretations in future periods, to optimise the price paid by the Group.
Short-term demand can which were also in issue but not effective at the date of vary significantly as a result of factors such as weather, power authorisation of these Financial Statements, will have no material generation profiles and short-term movements in market prices.
impact on the Financial Statements of the Group: x IAS 1 Revised, Presentation of Financial Statements, effective Many of the energy procurement contracts are held for the from 1 January 2009: purpose of receipt or delivery of commodities in accordance with x IAS 32 Amendment, Financial Instruments: Presentation and the Groups purchase, sale or usage requirements and are IAS 1 Amendment, Presentation of Financial Statements therefore out of scope of IAS 39.
However, a number of contracts Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on are considered to be derivative financial instruments and are liquidation, effective from 1 January 2009, subject to required to be fair valued under IAS 39, primarily because their EU endorsement: terms include the ability to trade elements of the contracted x IFRS 2 Amendment, Share Based Payment Vesting volumes on a net-settled basis.
Conditions and Cancellations, effective from 1 January 2009: The Group has shown the fair value adjustments arising on these x IFRIC 13, Customer Loyalty Programmes, effective for annual contracts separately in the certain re-measurements column.
periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008: This is because the intention of management is, subject to shortx IFRIC 15, Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate, term demand balancing, to use these energy supplies to meet effective from 1 January 2009, subject to EU endorsement: customer demand.
Accordingly, management believes the ultimate x IFRIC 16, Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation, net charge to cost of sales will be consistent with the price of effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 October energy agreed in these contracts and that the fair value 2008, subject to EU endorsement: adjustments will reverse as the energy is supplied over the life x IFRIC 17, Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners, effective of the contract.
This makes the fair value re-measurements very for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, subject to different in nature from costs arising from the physical delivery EU endorsement: of energy in the period.
x IFRS 1 Amendment, First-time Adoption of IFRS, effective from 1 January 2009, subject to EU endorsement: and 63 C Centrica p58-144.
indd 63 1 10 3 09 15:48:07 0 3 09 15:48:07 Notes to the Financial Statements continued At the balance sheet date the fair value represents the difference Interests in joint ventures between the prices agreed in the respective contracts and the A jointly controlled entity is a joint venture which involves actual or anticipated market price of acquiring the same amount of the establishment of an entity to engage in economic activity, energy on the open market.
The movement in the fair value taken which the Group jointly controls with its fellow venturers.
Under the to certain re-measurements in the Income Statement represents equity method, investments in jointly controlled entities are carried the unwind of the contracted volume delivered or consumed at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net during the period, combined with the change in fair value of future assets of the jointly controlled entity, less any impairment in value contracted energy as a result of movements in forward energy in individual investments.
The Income Statement reflects the prices during the year.
Groups share of the results of operations after tax of the jointly controlled entity.
These adjustments represent the significant majority of the items included in certain re-measurements.
In addition to these, Certain of the Groups exploration and production activity is however, the Group has identified a number of comparable conducted through joint ventures where the venturers have contractual arrangements where the difference between the price a direct interest in and jointly control the assets of the venture.
which the Group expects to pay or receive under a contract and The results, assets, liabilities and cash flows of these jointly the market price is required to be fair valued by IAS 39.
These controlled assets are included in the consolidated Financial additional items relate to cross-border transportation or Statements in proportion to the Groups interest.
transmission capacity, storage capacity and contracts relating Interests in associates to the sale of energy by-products, on which economic value An associate is an entity in which the Group has an equity interest has been created which is not wholly recognised under the and over which it has the ability to exercise significant influence.
For these arrangements the related Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried at fair value adjustments are also included under certain cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net re-measurements.
assets of the associate, less any impairment in value in individual These arrangements are managed separately from proprietary investments.
The Income Statement reflects the Groups share of energy trading activities where trades are entered into the results of operations after tax of the associate.
speculatively for the purpose of making profits in their own right.
Revenue These proprietary trades are included in the results before certain Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the re-measurements.
economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be Exceptional items reliably measured.
Revenue includes amounts receivable for goods As permitted by IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, and services provided in the normal course of business, net of certain items are presented separately.
The items that the Group discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
separately presents as exceptional are items which are of a nonEnergy supply: Revenue is recognised on the basis of energy recurring nature and, in the judgement of the Directors, need to supplied during the period.
Revenue for energy supply activities be disclosed separately by virtue of their nature, size or incidence includes an assessment of energy supplied to customers between in order to obtain a clear and consistent presentation of the the date of the last meter reading and the year end unread.
Items which may be Unread gas and electricity is estimated using historical considered exceptional in nature include disposals of businesses, consumption patterns, taking into account the industry business restructurings, the renegotiation of significant contracts reconciliation process for total gas and total electricity usage by and asset write-downs.
supplier, and is included in accrued energy income within trade Basis of consolidation and other receivables.
The Group Financial Statements consolidate the Financial Proprietary energy trading: Revenue comprises both realised Statements of the Company and entities controlled by the settled and unrealised fair value changes net gains and losses Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each from trading in physical and financial energy contracts.
year, and incorporate the results of its share of jointly controlled entities and associates using the equity method of accounting.
Storage services: Storage capacity revenues are recognised evenly over the contract period, whilst commodity revenues for the Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern injection and withdrawal of gas are recognised at the point of gas the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to flowing into or out of the storage facilities.
Gas purchases and gas obtain benefits from its activities.
sales entered into to optimise the performance of the gas storage The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the facilities are presented net within revenue.
year are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition or up Home services and fixed-fee service contracts: Where the Group to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary has an ongoing obligation to provide services, revenues are adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, apportioned on a time basis and amounts billed in advance are associates and jointly controlled entities to bring the accounting treated as deferred income and excluded from current revenue.
policies used into line with those used by the Group.
For one-off services, such as installations, revenue is recognised All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses at the date of service provision.
Revenue from fixed-fee service are eliminated on consolidation.
contracts is recognised on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract, reflecting the benefits receivable by the customer, which 64 C Centrica p58-144.
indd 64 1 10 3 09 15:48:07 0 3 09 15:48:07 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 span the life of the contract as a result of emergency maintenance determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis being available throughout the contract term.
together with a corresponding increase in equity over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the number of awards Gas production: Revenue associated with exploration and that will vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based production sales of natural gas, crude oil and condensates is vesting conditions.
recognised when title passes to the customer.
Revenue from the production of natural gas, oil and condensates in which the Group Fair value is measured using methods appropriate to each of the has an interest with other producers is recognised based on the different schemes as follows: Groups working interest and the terms of the relevant production LTIS: awards up A Black-Scholes valuation augmented by a sharing arrangements the entitlement method.
Differences to 2005 Monte Carlo simulation to predict the total between production sold and the Groups share of production are shareholder return performance not significant.
Gas purchases and gas sales entered into to LTIS: EPS awards Market value on the date of grant optimise the performance of gas production facilities are presented after 2005 net within revenue.
LTIS: TSR awards A Monte Carlo simulation to predict the total Power generation: Revenue is recognised on the basis of power after 2005 shareholder return performance supplied during the period.
Power and gas purchases and power Sharesave Black-Scholes and gas sales entered into to optimise the performance of power ESOS Black-Scholes using an adjusted option generation facilities are presented net within revenue.
life assumption to reflect the possibility of early exercise Interest income: Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by SAS, SIP, DMSS, Market value on the date of grant reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest RSS and ESPP rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset Foreign currencies to that assets net carrying value.
The consolidated Financial Statements are presented in pounds Cost of sales sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and Energy supply includes the cost of gas and electricity produced the Groups presentational currency.
Each entity in the Group and purchased during the period taking into account the industry determines its own functional currency and items included in the reconciliation process for total gas and total electricity usage by Financial Statements of each entity are measured using that supplier, and related transportation, distribution, royalty costs and functional currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially bought in materials and services.
recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign Home services and fixed-fee service contracts cost of sales currencies are translated at the functional currency rate of includes direct labour and related overheads on installation work, exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are repairs and service contracts in the period.
included in the Income Statement for the period with the exception Carbon Emissions Reduction Target programme CERT of exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings that UK licensed energy suppliers are set a carbon emission reduction provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign entity.
These target by the Government which is proportional to the size of their are taken directly to equity until the disposal or partial disposal of customer base.
The current CERT programme runs from April the net investment, at which time they are recognised in the 2008 to March 2011.
The target is subject to an annual Income Statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in adjustment throughout the programme period to take account of terms of historical cost in a currency other than the functional changes to a UK licensed energy suppliers customer base.
currency of the entity concerned are translated using the exchange Energy suppliers can meet the target through expenditure on rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
qualifying projects which give rise to carbon savings.
The carbon For the purpose of presenting consolidated Financial Statements, savings can be transferred between energy suppliers.
The Group the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign subsidiary charges the costs of the programme to cost of sales and undertakings, jointly controlled entities and associates are capitalises costs incurred in deriving carbon savings in excess of translated into pounds sterling at exchange rates prevailing on the the annual target as inventory which is valued at the lower of cost balance sheet date.
The results of foreign subsidiary undertakings, or net realisable value and which may be used to meet the carbon jointly controlled entities and associates are translated into pounds emissions reduction target in subsequent periods or be transferred sterling at average rates of exchange for the relevant period.
The inventory is carried on a first-in, first-out basis.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the opening The carbon emission reduction target for the programme period is net assets and the results are transferred to the Groups foreign allocated to reporting periods on a straight-line basis as adjusted currency translation reserve, a separate component of equity, by the annual determination process.
and are reported in the Statement of Recognised Income and Employee share schemes Expense.
In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets The Group operates a number of employee share schemes, and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency, the cumulative detailed in note 33, under which it makes equity-settled sharetranslation difference arising in the foreign currency translation based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based reserve is charged or credited to the Income Statement payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant excluding on disposal.
the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
indd 65 1 10 3 09 15:48:07 0 3 09 15:48:07 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings, foreign Other intangible assets currency swaps and forward exchange contracts used to Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial hedge foreign currency net investments in foreign subsidiary recognition at cost.
Intangible assets include emissions trading undertakings, jointly controlled entities and associates are schemes, renewable obligation certificates and certain exploration taken directly to reserves and are reported in the Statement of and evaluation expenditures, the accounting policies for which are Recognised Income and Expense.
All other exchange movements dealt with separately below.
For purchased application software, are recognised in the Income Statement for the period.
for example investments in customer relationship management and billing systems, cost includes contractors charges, materials, Business combinations and goodwill directly attributable labour and directly attributable overheads.
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured as the cash paid Capitalisation begins when expenditure for the asset is being and the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, incurred and activities necessary to prepare the asset for use are of other assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity in progress.
Capitalisation ceases when substantially all the instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the activities that are necessary to prepare the asset for use are acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business complete.
Amortisation commences at the point of commercial combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and deployment.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under combination is their fair value as at the date of acquisition.
IFRS 3, Business Combinations are recognised at their fair value at Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated groups that are classified as held for resale in accordance with impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible assets are IFRS 5, Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued assessed to be either finite or indefinite.
Intangible assets with Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life and costs to sell.
assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
The amortisation period and the Goodwill arising on a business combination represents the excess amortisation method for an intangible asset are reviewed at least of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value at each financial year end.
Changes in the expected useful life or of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, jointly the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits controlled entity or associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is embodied in the asset are accounted for on a prospective basis by initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently changing the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
If, after treated as changes in accounting estimates.
reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities Intangible assets are derecognised on disposal, or when no future exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is economic benefits are expected from their use.
recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially impairment annually either individually or at the cash-generating measured at the minoritys proportion of the net fair value of unit level.
Such intangibles are not amortised.
The useful life of an the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life assessment continues to be Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for supportable.
If not, the change in the useful life assessment from impairment, annually, or more frequently if events or changes indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Income The amortisation period for the principal categories of intangible Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
assets are as follows: For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to Application software up to 10 years each of the Groups cash-generating units or groups of cashLicences up to 20 years generating units that expect to benefit from the business Consents up to 25 years combination in which the goodwill arose.
Cash-generating units to Contractual customer relationships up to 20 years which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment Identifiable acquired brand Indefinite annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cashEU Emissions Trading Scheme and renewable generating unit or groups of cash-generating units is less than obligations certificates the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated Granted CO2 emissions allowances received in a period are initially first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the recognised at nominal value nil value.
Purchased CO2 emissions unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis allowances are initially recognised at cost purchase price within of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
A liability is recognised when the level of emissions exceed the level of allowances granted.
The liability is On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled measured at the cost of purchased allowances up to the level of entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the purchased allowances held, and then at the market price of determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
allowances ruling at the balance sheet date, with movements in the liability recognised in operating profit.
Forward contracts for the 66 C Centrica p58-144.
indd 66 1 10 3 09 15:48:07 0 3 09 15:48:07 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 purchase or sale of CO2 emissions allowances are measured at completion of evaluation, the associated costs are expensed in the fair value with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value period in which that determination is made.
recognised in the Income Statement.
The intangible asset is All field development costs are capitalised as property, plant and surrendered at the end of the compliance period reflecting the equipment.
Such costs relate to the acquisition and installation consumption of economic benefit.
As a result no amortisation is of production facilities and include development drilling costs, recorded during the period.
project-related engineering and other technical services costs.
Purchased renewable obligation certificates are initially recognised Property, plant and equipment, including rights and concessions at cost within intangible assets.
A liability for the renewables related to production activities, are depreciated from the obligation is recognised based on the level of electricity supplied to commencement of production in the fields concerned, using customers, and is calculated in accordance with percentages set the unit of production method, based on all of the proven and by the UK Government and the renewable obligation certificate probable reserves of those fields.
Changes in these estimates buyout price for that period.
The intangible asset is surrendered at are dealt with prospectively.
the end of the compliance period reflecting the consumption of The net carrying value of fields in production and development economic benefit.
As a result no amortisation is recorded during is compared on a field-by-field basis with the likely discounted the period.
future net revenues to be derived from the remaining commercial Property, plant and equipment reserves.
An impairment loss is recognised where it is considered Property, plant and equipment is included in the Balance Sheet that recorded amounts are unlikely to be fully recovered from the at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any provisions net present value of future net revenues.
Exploration and production for impairment.
assets are reviewed annually for indicators of impairment.
The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchase price or Decommissioning costs construction cost and any costs directly attributable to bringing the Provision is made for the net present value of the estimated cost asset into operation.
The purchase price or construction cost is of decommissioning gas production facilities at the end of the the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other producing lives of fields, and storage facilities and power stations consideration given to acquire the asset.
at the end of the useful life of the facilities, based on price levels and technology at the balance sheet date.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other property, plant and equipment, except upstream production assets, are depreciated When this provision gives access to future economic benefits, on a straight-line basis at rates sufficient to write off the cost, less a decommissioning asset is recognised and included within estimated residual values, of individual assets over their estimated property, plant and equipment.
Changes in these estimates and useful lives.
The depreciation periods for the principal categories changes to the discount rates are dealt with prospectively and of assets are as follows: reflected as an adjustment to the provision and corresponding decommissioning asset included within property, plant and Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 years equipment.
For gas production facilities and offshore storage Plant 5 to 20 years facilities the decommissioning asset is amortised using the unit Power stations and wind farms up to 30 years of production method, based on proven and probable reserves.
Equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years For power stations the decommissioning asset is amortised on a Storage up to 40 years straight-line basis over the useful life of the facility.
The unwinding of the discount on the provision is included in the Income Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their Statement within interest expense.
expected useful economic lives on the same basis as for owned Leases assets, or where shorter, the lease term.
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate requires an assessment of whether the fulfilment of the that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
Leases are Residual values and useful lives are reassessed annually and, classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease if necessary, changes are accounted for prospectively.
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Exploration, evaluation and production assets lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets Centrica uses the successful efforts method of accounting for held under finance leases are capitalised and included in property, exploration and evaluation expenditure.
Exploration and evaluation plant and equipment at their fair value, or if lower, at the present expenditure associated with an exploration well, including value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the acquisition costs related to exploration and evaluation activities, inception of the lease.
The obligations relating to finance leases, are initially capitalised as intangible assets.
Certain expenditures net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included such as geological and geophysical exploration costs are within bank loans and other borrowings, with the amount payable expensed.
If the prospects are subsequently determined to be within 12 months included in bank overdrafts and loans within successful on completion of evaluation, the relevant expenditure current liabilities.
Lease payments are apportioned between including licence acquisition costs is transferred to property, plant finance charges and reduction of the finance lease obligation so as and equipment and depreciated on a unit of production basis.
If the prospects are subsequently determined to be unsuccessful on 67 C Centrica p58-144.
indd 67 1 10 3 09 15:48:07 0 3 09 15:48:07 Notes to the Financial Statements continued to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of Inventories the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Inventories, excluding inventories of gas and oil, are valued on a first-in, first-out basis, at the lower of cost and estimated net Payments under operating leases are charged to the Income realisable value after allowance for redundant and slow-moving Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the items.
Inventories of gas and oil are valued on a weighted average relevant lease.
basis, at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and Take-or-pay contracts intangible assets excluding goodwill Where payments are made to external suppliers under At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying take-or-pay obligations for gas not taken, they are treated as amounts of its intangible assets and property, plant and prepayments and included within other receivables, as they equipment to determine whether there is any indication that those generate future economic benefits.
assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order Pensions and other post-retirement benefits to determine the extent of any impairment loss.
Where the asset The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension does not generate cash flows that are independent from other schemes.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cashschemes is determined separately for each scheme using the generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
Actuarial gains with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
They are recognised outside the Income Statement and presented in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future The cost of providing retirement pensions and other benefits is cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax charged to the Income Statement over the periods benefiting from discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time employees service.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to value of money and the risks specific to the asset concerned.
the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit benefits become vested.
The difference between the expected is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying return on scheme assets and the change in present value of amount of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its scheme obligations resulting from the passage of time is recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately recognised in the Income Statement within interest income or as an expense.
An impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in The retirement benefit obligation asset recognised in the Balance the estimate used to determine the assets recoverable amount Sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit since the last impairment loss was recognised.
Where an obligation of the schemes as adjusted for unrecognised past impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount service cost, and the fair value of the schemes assets.
The of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised present value of the defined benefit obligation asset is determined estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised currency in which the benefits are paid, and that have terms of for the asset cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
After such a reversal the depreciation or amortisation charge, where Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are relevant, is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets charged as an operating expense as they fall due.
revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic Provisions basis over its remaining useful life.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present Non-current assets held for sale obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, that Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for can be reliably measured, and it is probable that the Group will sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at less costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged in respect of nonthe Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle current assets classified as held for sale.
the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Where discounting Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale time is recognised in the Income Statement included within transaction rather than through continuing use.
is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in Taxation its present condition.
Management must be committed to the Current tax, including UK corporation tax, UK petroleum revenue sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
indd 68 1 10 3 09 15:48:08 0 3 09 15:48:08 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences For the purpose of the consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash identified at the balance sheet date, except to the extent that and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as the deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
if amortisation of goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes or d Interest-bearing loans and other borrowings the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which All interest-bearing loans and other borrowings are initially is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction recognised at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs.
affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit and loss.
Temporary differences are differences between the carrying After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and other amount of the Groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, except when they are the hedged Deferred tax liabilities may be offset against deferred tax assets item in an effective fair value hedge relationship where the carrying within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax group.
Any value is also adjusted to reflect the fair value movements remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis associated with the hedged risks.
Such fair value movements of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there are recognised in the Income Statement.
Amortised cost is will be suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, in the calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any foreseeable future, against which the deductible temporary discount or premium.
e Units issued by The Consumers Waterheater Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on Income Fund subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, except Prior to deconsolidation as explained in note 3, units issued where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be by The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund which contain controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not redemption rights providing unit holders with the right to redeem reverse in the foreseeable future.
units back to the Fund for cash or another financial asset were treated as a financial liability and recorded at the present value Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are of the redemption amount.
Gains and losses related to changes expected to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised in the carrying value of the financial liability up to the date of or liability settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been deconsolidation are included in the Income Statement within enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences expected to arise from the manner in which f Available-for-sale financial assets the asset or liability is recovered or settled.
Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as available-for-sale, which are initially Financial instruments recognised at fair value within the Balance Sheet.
 assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the sale financial assets are subsequently recognised at fair value with Group Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the gains and losses arising from changes in fair value recognised contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are directly in equity and presented in the Statement of Recognised fide-recognised when the Group no longer has the rights to cash Income and Expense, until the asset is disposed of or is flows, the risks and rewards of ownership or control of the asset.
determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain Financial liabilities are fide-recognised when the obligation under the or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the Income liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Accrued interest or dividends arising a Trade receivables on available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in the Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice Income Statement.
amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts.
Provision At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether there is is made when there is objective evidence that the Group may not objective evidence that available-for-sale financial assets are be able to collect the trade receivable.
Balances are written off impaired.
If any such evidence exists cumulative losses recognised when recoverability is assessed as being remote.
in equity are removed from equity and recognised in profit and b Share capital loss.
The cumulative loss removed from equity represents the Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly difference between the acquisition cost and current fair value, less attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised deduction from the proceeds received.
Own equity instruments in profit or loss.
that are reacquired treasury shares are deducted from equity.
Impairment losses recognised in the Income Statement for equity No gain or loss is recognised in the Income Statement on the investments classified as available-for-sale are not subsequently purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own reversed through the Income Statement.
recognised in the Income Statement for debt instruments classified c Cash and cash equivalents as available-for-sale are subsequently reversed if an increase in the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily occurring after the recognition of the impairment loss.
convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity of three months or less.
indd 69 1 10 3 09 15:48:08 0 3 09 15:48:08 Notes to the Financial Statements continued g Derivative financial instruments value depends on the purpose for issuing or holding the derivative.
The Group routinely enters into sale and purchase transactions For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains for physical delivery of gas, power and oil.
A portion of these or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the transactions take the form of contracts that were entered into and Income Statement and are included within gross profit or interest continue to be held for the purpose of receipt or delivery of the income and interest expense.
Gains and losses arising on physical commodity in accordance with the Groups expected derivatives entered into for speculative energy trading purposes sale, purchase or usage requirements, and are not within the are presented on a net basis within revenue.
Embedded derivatives: Derivatives embedded in other financial Certain purchase and sales contracts for the physical delivery of instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate gas, power and oil are within the scope of IAS 39 because they derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely net settle or contain written options.
Such contracts are accounted related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts for as derivatives under IAS 39 and are recognised in the Balance are not carried at fair value, with gains or losses reported in the Sheet at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair Income Statement.
The closely related nature of embedded value on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are derivatives is reassessed when there is a change in the terms taken directly to the Income Statement for the year.
of the contract which significantly modifies the future cash flows under the contract.
Where a contract contains one or more The Group uses a range of derivatives for both trading and to embedded derivatives and providing that the embedded derivative hedge exposures to financial risks, such as interest rate, foreign significantly modifies the cash flows under the contract, the option exchange and energy price risks, arising in the normal course of to fair value the entire contract may be taken and the contract will business.
The use of derivative financial instruments is governed be recognised at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors.
Further detail on the Groups risk management policies is included within the Directors Report Governance on pages 41 to 42 and h Hedge accounting in note 4 to the Financial Statements.
For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified either as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net The accounting treatment for derivatives is dependent on whether investments in foreign operations.
they are entered into for trading or hedging purposes.
A derivative instrument is considered to be used for hedging purposes when Fair value hedges: A derivative is classified as a fair value hedge it alters the risk profile of an underlying exposure of the Group when it hedges the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
Any gain or loss from re-measuring in line with the Groups risk management policies and is in the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately accordance with established guidelines, which require that the in the Income Statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item hedging relationship is documented at its inception, ensure that attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying the derivative is highly effective in achieving its objective, and amount of the hedged item and recognised in the Income require that its effectiveness can be reliably measured.
The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting also holds derivatives which are not designated as hedges and are if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or held for trading.
exercised, the hedge no longer qualifies for hedge accounting All derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date on which the or the Group revokes the designation.
Any adjustment to the derivative is entered into and are re-measured to fair value at each carrying amount of a hedged financial instrument for which the reporting date.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair effective interest method is used is amortised to the Income value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Amortisation may begin as soon as an adjustment Derivative assets and derivative liabilities are offset and presented exists and shall begin no later than when the hedged item ceases on a net basis only when both a legal right of set-off exists and the to be adjusted for changes in its fair value attributable to the risk intention to net settle the derivative contracts is present.
Cash flow hedges: A derivative is classified as a cash flow hedge The Group enters into certain energy derivative contracts covering when it hedges exposure to variability in cash flows that is periods for which observable market data does not exist.
The fair attributable to a particular risk either associated with a recognised value of such derivatives is estimated by reference in part to asset, liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
The portion published price quotations from active markets, to the extent that of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument which is effective is such observable market data exists, and in part by using valuation recognised directly in equity while any ineffectiveness is techniques, whose inputs include data, which is not based on or recognised in the Income Statement.
The gains or losses that are derived from observable markets.
Where the fair value at initial recognised directly in equity are transferred to the Income recognition for such contracts differs from the transaction price, Statement in the same period in which the highly probable forecast a fair value gain or fair value loss will arise.
This is referred to as a transaction affects income, for example when the future sale of day-one gain or day-one loss.
Such gains and losses are deferred physical gas or physical power actually occurs.
Where the hedged and amortised to the Income Statement based on volumes item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts purchased or delivered over the contractual period until such time taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the observable market data becomes available.
When observable non-financial asset or liability on its recognition.
Hedge accounting market data becomes available, any remaining deferred day-one is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, gains or losses are recognised within the Income Statement.
terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, no longer Recognition of the gain or loss that results from changes in fair 70 C Centrica p58-144.
indd 70 1 10 3 09 15:48:08 0 3 09 15:48:08 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 qualifies for hedge accounting or the Group revokes the adopted an accounting policy, which recognises CO emissions 2 designation.
liabilities when the level of emissions exceeds the level of allowances granted by the Government in the period.
The liability At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging is measured at the cost of purchased allowances up to the level instrument recognised in equity remains in equity until the highly of purchased allowances held, and then at market price of probable forecast transaction occurs.
If the transaction is no allowances ruling at the balance sheet date.
Movements in the longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss recognised liability are reflected within operating profit.
Forward contracts for in equity is recognised in the Income Statement.
sales and purchases of allowances are measured at fair value.
Net investment hedges: Hedges of net investments in foreign Petroleum revenue tax PRT operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any The definitions of an income tax in IAS 12, Income Taxes, have gain or loss on the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in led management to judge that PRT should be treated consistently equity, any gain or loss on the ineffective portion of the hedge is with other income taxes.
The charge for the year is presented recognised in the Income Statement.
On disposal of the foreign within taxation on profit from continuing operations in the Income operation, the cumulative value of any gains or losses recognised Statement.
Deferred amounts are included within deferred tax directly in equity is transferred to the Income Statement.
assets and liabilities in the Balance Sheet.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION The Group deconsolidated The Consumers Waterheater Income UNCERTAINTY Fund the Fund with effect from 1 December 2007, the date of an Internalisation Agreement entered into between Centrica and a Critical judgements in applying the Groups the Fund.
accounting policies In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies Centrica created the Fund in 2002 to refinance the water heater as described in note 2, management has made the following assets acquired with the Enbridge Services acquisition.
The Group judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts consolidated the Fund in accordance with the requirements of recognised in the Financial Statements apart from those involving SIC-12, Consolidation Special Purpose Entities, as the estimations which are dealt with below.
substance of the agreements put in place by Centrica indicated that the Fund was created for and on behalf of the Group.
These Finance lease Third-party power station agreements both predetermined the Funds activities and provided tolling arrangement Centrica with operational control, via responsibilities for servicing The Group has entered into a long-term tolling arrangement with the Funds asset portfolio and administering the Funds activities.
The contract provides Centrica with the right to nominate 100% of the plant output until 2021 in return In 2006 the Trustees of the Fund appointed an independent Chief for a mix of capacity payments and operating payments.
The activities undertaken by the Fund started to capacity payments comprise both fixed-price and market-priced change following this appointment.
In 2007 the Trustees of the elements and are dependent on plant availability.
Centrica holds Fund sought further changes in the conduct of the Fund.
On an option to extend the tolling arrangement for a further 8 years, 1 December 2007, the existing Administration Agreement was notice of which must be provided to the power station operator by replaced, at the instigation of the Fund, by a new Internalisation 30 September 2020.
If the extension option is exercised, Centrica Agreement, which provides the Fund with access rights to key is granted an option to purchase the station at the end of the operational data and provides a basis for employees and business extended tolling period.
The option to purchase must be exercised infrastructure to transfer to the Fund, such that it is capable of by serving notice to the generator between 30 September 2027 independent operation from Centrica.
Subsequent to this and 30 September 2028.
Should Centrica exercise the purchase agreement the Fund has independently refinanced its activities.
option the generator can exercise an option to retain the station.
The Directors believe that the Internalisation Agreement Should both options be exercised the valuation of the options, and represented a change to the original contractual arrangements hence ownership of the asset, will be determined by an expert with the Fund, and demonstrates that the Fund has both the panel, appointed by both parties.
Market-based compensation will desire and the ability to manage its own affairs.
Accordingly, in be payable to Centrica if ownership is retained by the generator.
2007 the Directors judged that the Funds activities were no longer The Directors have judged that the arrangement should be predetermined such that its activities were being conducted accounted for as a finance lease as the lease term is judged to be on behalf of Centrica, and thus the Fund ceased to represent a major part of the economic life of the power station and the a subsidiary of the Centrica Group.
present value of the minimum lease payments at inception date of The Group deconsolidated the Fund with effect from 1 December the arrangement amounted to a large part of the fair value of the 2007, the date the Internalisation Agreement became effective and power station at that time.
Details of the finance lease asset, the date of the resultant loss of control, recognising an exceptional finance lease creditor and interest charges are included in notes profit on disposal amounting to 227 million.
The Funds activities 17, 25 and 10 respectively.
represented a separate major line of business of the Direct Energy EU Emissions Trading Scheme segment, and contributed materially to Group borrowings.
In order The Group has been subject to the European Union Emissions to provide a clear presentation of the impact of deconsolidating Trading Scheme EU ETS since 1 January 2005.
IFRIC 3, the Fund, the results in the prior year have been presented as a Emission Rights was withdrawn by the IASB in June 2005, and has not yet been replaced by definitive guidance.
indd 71 1 10 3 09 15:48:08 0 3 09 15:48:08 Notes to the Financial Statements continued discontinued operation distinct from continuing operations within producing gas and liquids property, plant and equipment as well the Group Income Statement.
as being a significant estimate affecting decommissioning estimates and impairment calculations.
The factors impacting gas b Key sources of estimation uncertainty and liquids estimates, and the process for estimating reserve The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources quantities, are described on page 143. of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying The impact of a change in estimated proven and probable amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, reserves is dealt with prospectively by depreciating the remaining are discussed below.
book value of producing assets over the expected future production.
If proven and probable reserves estimates are revised Revenue recognition unread gas and electricity meters downwards, earnings could be affected by higher depreciation Revenue for energy supply activities includes an assessment of expense or an immediate write-down impairment of the assets energy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter book value.
reading and the year end unread.
Unread gas and electricity comprises both billed and unbilled revenue.
It is estimated through Decommissioning costs the billing systems, using historical consumption patterns, on a The estimated cost of decommissioning at the end of the customer by customer basis, taking into account weather patterns producing lives of fields is reviewed periodically and is based and the differences between actual meter reads being returned on proven and probable reserves, price levels and technology and system estimates.
Actual meter reads continue to be at the balance sheet date.
Provision is made for the estimated cost compared to system estimates between the balance sheet date of decommissioning at the balance sheet date.
The payment dates and the finalisation of the accounts.
An assessment is also made of total expected future decommissioning costs are uncertain and of any factors that are likely to materially affect the ultimate dependent on the lives of the facilities, but are currently anticipated economic benefits which will flow to the Group, including bill to be between 2010 and 2062, with the substantial majority of the cancellation and re-bill rates.
To the extent that the economic costs expected to be paid between 2019 and 2030. benefits are not expected to flow to the Group, the value of that Impairment of goodwill and indefinite lived revenue is not recognised.
The judgements applied, and the intangible assets assumptions underpinning these judgements, are considered to The Group determines whether goodwill and indefinite lived be appropriate.
However, a change in these assumptions would intangible assets are impaired at least on an annual basis in have an impact on the amount of revenue recognised.
accordance with the Groups accounting policy described in Industry reconciliation process cost of sales note 2.
This requires the determination of the recoverable amount The industry reconciliation process is required as differences arise of the cash-generating units to which goodwill and indefinite lived between the estimated quantity of gas and electricity the Group intangibles are allocated.
The recoverable amounts are determined deems to have supplied and billed customers, and the estimated by either estimating the value in use of those cash-generating units quantity the industry system operator deems the individual or in the case of the Centrica Energy Gas production and suppliers, including the Group, to have supplied to customers.
development cash-generating unit determining the fair value less This difference in deemed supply is referred to as imbalance.
costs to sell of the cash-generating unit.
Value in use calculations The reconciliation process can result in either a higher or lower requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future value of industry deemed supply than has been estimated as cash flows to be derived from the cash-generating units and to being supplied to customers by the Group, but in practice tends to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present result in a higher value of deemed supply.
The Group then reviews value of those cash flows.
The fair value less costs to sell the difference to ascertain whether there is evidence that its methodology is deemed more appropriate for the Centrica Energy estimate of amounts supplied to customers is inaccurate or Gas production and development cash-generating unit as it is whether the difference arises from other causes.
The Groups based on post-tax cash flows arising from each field within the share of the resulting imbalance is included within commodity cash-generating unit, which is consistent with the approach taken costs charged to cost of sales.
Management estimates the level by management in determining the economic value of the of recovery of imbalance which will be achieved either through underlying assets.
Fair value less costs to sell is determined by subsequent customer billing or through the developing industry discounting the post-tax cash flows expected to be generated by settlement process.
the gas production and development assets within the Centrica Energy Gas production and development cash-generating unit, Determination of fair values energy derivatives net of associated selling costs, and takes into account Derivative contracts are carried in the Balance Sheet at fair value, assumptions market participants would use in estimating fair with changes in fair value recorded in either the Income Statement value.
Further detail on the assumptions used in determining the or equity.
Fair values of energy derivatives are estimated by value in use and fair value less costs to sell calculations is provided reference in part to published price quotations in active markets in note 16. and in part by using valuation techniques.
More detail on the assumptions used in determining fair valuations is provided in An impairment charge of 45 million arose on the European note 28.
Energy Oxxio cash-generating unit during the course of 2008 resulting in the carrying amount of goodwill being written down to Gas and liquids reserves its recoverable amount.
Further detail on the impairment is The volume of proven and probable gas and liquids reserves is provided in note 16. an estimate that affects the unit of production depreciation of 72 C Centrica p58-144.
indd 72 1 10 3 09 15:48:08 0 3 09 15:48:08 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Impairment of power generation and upstream gas assets For gas fired power stations, which have a high degree of Power generation and upstream gas assets are assessed for production flexibility, the value in use calculation also includes a indicators of impairment at each reporting date in accordance with scenario based statistical assessment of the additional value which the Groups accounting policies as described in note 2.
If an can be generated from optimising production to take advantage of indicator of impairment exists an assessment of the recoverable volatile forward prices.
Pre-tax cash flows for the first three years amount of the asset is required to be made.
Indicators of are based on the Groups internal Board-approved three-year impairment for these assets may include, but are not limited to, business plans and thereafter are estimated on a consistent basis the following: to reflect cash flows up to the date of cessation of operation of the x Reductions in reserve estimates or profiles of production: asset.
Pre-tax cash flows are discounted using an appropriate prex Declines in long-term commodity prices: tax discount rate which is derived from the Groups weighted x Increases in capital expenditure or acceleration of known average cost of capital.
The carrying values of the Groups power capital expenditure: generation and upstream gas assets are included within note 17. x Significant unplanned outages or problems with operational Pensions and other post-retirement benefits performance: and The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension x Changes in regulatory or tax environments.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit The recoverable amount of power generation and upstream gas schemes is determined separately for each scheme under the assets is usually assessed with reference to each individual assets projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
Actuarial gains value in use.
The value in use is based on the pre-tax cash flows and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
expected to be generated by the asset and is dependent on views The key assumptions used for the actuarial valuation are based on of forecast generation production, forecast commodity prices the Groups best estimate of the variables that will determine the using market prices where available and internal estimates for the ultimate cost of providing post-employment benefits, on which remainder of the period and the timing and extent of capital further detail is provided in note 34. expenditure.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Groups normal operating, investing and financing activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including commodity price risk, currency risk, interest rate risk and equity price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management process is designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risk, which includes, among others, financial risk.
Further detail on the Groups overall risk management process is included within the Directors Report Governance on pages 41 to 42.
During 2008, there was significant volatility in commodity prices and a continuing shortage of available credit in the market.
In addition, many of the markets in which the Group operates are experiencing a slowing of growth or, in some cases, economic contraction.
As a result of these external market factors, the Group is encountering an increase in commodity price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk compared with that experienced at the end of 2007.
The Group continues to manage these risks in accordance with its financial risk management processes and did not incur any additional significant cash costs as a result of the increased commodity, credit or liquidity risk experienced in 2008.
Financial risk management is overseen by the Group Financial Risk Management Committee FRMC according to objectives, targets and policies set by the Board.
Commodity price risk management is carried out in accordance with individual business unit financial risk management policies, as approved by the FRMC and the Board.
Treasury risk management, including management of currency risk, interest rate risk, equity price risk and liquidity risk is carried out by a central Group Treasury function in accordance with the Groups financing and treasury policy, as approved by the Board.
The credit risks associated with commodity trading and treasury positions are managed in accordance with the Groups counterparty credit policy.
Downstream credit risk management is carried out in accordance with individual business unit credit policies.
a Market risk management Market risk is the risk of loss that results from changes in market prices commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices.
The level of market risk to which the Group is exposed at a point in time varies depending on market conditions, expectations of future price or market rate movements and the composition of the Groups physical asset and contract portfolios.
i Commodity price risk management The Group is exposed to commodity price risk in its energy procurement, downstream and proprietary energy trading activities.
Energy procurement and downstream activities The Groups energy procurement and downstream activities consist of downstream positions, equity gas and liquids production, equity power generation, strategic procurement and sales contracts, market-traded purchase and sales contracts and derivative positions taken on with the intent of securing gas and power for the Groups downstream customers in the UK, Europe and North America from a variety of sources at an optimal cost.
The Group actively manages commodity price risk by optimising its asset and contract portfolios making use of volume flexibility.
The Group is exposed to commodity price risk in its energy procurement and downstream activities because the cost of procuring gas and electricity to serve its downstream customers varies with wholesale commodity prices.
The risk is primarily that market prices for commodities will fluctuate between the time that sales prices are fixed or tariffs are set and the time at which the corresponding procurement cost is fixed, thereby potentially reducing expected margins or making sales unprofitable.
The Group uses specific volumetric limits to manage the exposure to market prices associated with the Groups energy procurement and downstream activities to an acceptable level.
Volumetric limits are supported by a Profit at Risk PaR methodology in the UK and a Value at Risk VaR methodology in North America and Europe to measure the Groups exposure to commodity price risk.
PaR measures the estimated potential loss in a position or portfolio of positions associated with the movement of a commodity price for a given confidence level, over the remaining term of the position or contract portfolio.
VaR measures the estimated potential loss for a given confidence level, over a predetermined holding period.
The standard confidence level used is 95%.
The Group measures and manages the commodity price risk associated with the Groups entire energy procurement and downstream portfolio.
Only certain of the Groups energy procurement and downstream contracts constitute financial instruments under IAS 39 note 2.
As a result, while the Group manages the commodity price risk associated with both financial and non-financial energy procurement and downstream contracts, it is the notional value of energy contracts being carried at fair value that represents the exposure of the Groups energy procurement and downstream activities to commodity price risk according to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
This is because energy contracts that are financial instruments under IAS 39 are accounted for on a fair value basis and changes in fair value immediately impact profit or equity.
Conversely, energy contracts that are not financial instruments under IAS 39 are accounted for as executory contracts and changes in fair value do not immediately impact profit or equity, and as such, are not exposed to commodity price risk as defined by IFRS 7.
So while the PaR or the VaR associated with energy procurement and downstream contracts outside the scope of IAS 39 is monitored for internal risk management purposes, only those energy contracts within the scope of IAS 39 are within the scope of the IFRS 7 disclosure requirements.
indd 74 1 10 3 09 15:48:08 0 3 09 15:48:08 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 4.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The increase in commodity prices in the six months ended 30 June 2008 resulted in significant mark-to-market gains on certain energy procurement contracts where the purchase price had been locked in by contract.
Commodity prices have since fallen from their levels at 30 June 2008, resulting in significant mark-to-market losses for the year on contracts locked-in during the year at the higher prices.
The net loss of 1,415 million 2007: gain of 235 million on the re-measurement of energy contracts largely represents unrealised mark-to-market loss created by gas and power purchase contracts which are priced above the current wholesale market value of energy.
This loss is calculated with reference to forward energy prices and therefore the extent of the economic loss arising over the life of these contracts is uncertain and is entirely dependent upon the level of future wholesale energy prices.
Generally, subject to shortterm balancing, the ultimate net charge to cost of sales will be consistent with the price of energy agreed in these contracts and the fair value adjustments will reverse as the energy is supplied over the life of the contract.
The carrying value of energy contracts used in energy procurement and downstream activities at 31 December 2008 is disclosed in note 21.
A sensitivity analysis that is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of the Groups financial position and performance to changes in the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments associated with the Groups energy procurement and downstream activities as a result of changes in commodity prices is provided below in section v. Proprietary energy trading The Groups proprietary energy trading activities consist of physical and financial commodity purchases and sales contracts taken on with the intent of benefiting in the short-term from changes in market prices or differences between buying and selling prices.
The Group conducts its trading activities over the counter and through exchanges in the UK, North America and parts of the rest of Europe.
The Group is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of its proprietary energy trading activities because the value of its trading assets and liabilities will fluctuate with changes in market prices for commodities.
The Group sets volumetric and VaR limits to manage the commodity price risk exposure associated with the Groups proprietary energy trading activities.
The VaR used measures the estimated potential loss for a 95% confidence level over a one-day holding period.
The holding period used is based on market liquidity and the number of days the Group would expect it to take to close off a trading position.
As with any modelled risk measure, there are certain limitations that arise from the assumptions used in the VaR analysis.
VaR assumes that the future will behave like the past and that the Groups trading positions can be unwound or hedged within the predetermined holding period.
Furthermore the use of a 95% confidence level, by definition, does not take into account changes in value that might occur beyond this confidence level.
The VaR, before taxation, associated with the Groups proprietary energy trading activities at 31 December 2008 was 1 million 2007: 9 million.
The carrying value of energy contracts used in proprietary energy trading activities at 31 December 2008 is disclosed in note 21. ii Currency risk management The Group is exposed to currency risk on foreign currency denominated forecast transactions, firm commitments, monetary assets and liabilities transactional exposure and on its net investments in foreign operations translational exposure.
Transactional currency risk The Group is exposed to transactional currency risk on transactions denominated in currencies other than the underlying functional currency of the commercial operation transacting.
The Groups primary functional currencies are pounds sterling in the UK, Canadian dollars in Canada, US dollars in the US and euros in Europe.
The risk is that the functional currency value of cash flows will vary as a result of movements in exchange rates.
Transactional exposure arises from the Groups energy procurement activities in the UK and in Canada, where a proportion of transactions are denominated in euros or US dollars and on certain capital commitments denominated in foreign currencies.
In addition, in order to optimise the cost of funding, the Group has, in certain cases, issued foreign currency denominated debt, primarily in US dollars, New Zealand dollars, euros or Japanese yen.
It is the Groups policy to hedge all material transactional exposures using forward contracts to fix the functional currency value of non-functional currency cash flows.
At 31 December 2008, there were no material unhedged non-functional currency monetary assets or liabilities, firm commitments or probable forecast transactions 2007: nil, other than foreign currency borrowings used to hedge translational exposures.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Translational currency risk The Group is exposed to translational currency risk as a result of its net investments in North America and Europe.
The risk is that the pounds sterling value of the net assets of foreign operations will decrease with changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Groups policy is to protect the pounds sterling book value of its net investments in foreign operations, subject to certain targets monitored by the FRMC, by holding foreign currency debt, entering into foreign currency derivatives or a mixture of both.
The Group measures and manages the currency risk associated with all transactional and translational exposures.
In contrast, IFRS 7 requires disclosure of currency risk arising on financial instruments denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the commercial operation transacting only.
As a result, for the purposes of IFRS 7, currency risk excludes the Groups net investments in North America and Europe as well as foreign currency denominated forecast transactions and firm commitments.
A sensitivity analysis that is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of the Groups financial position and performance to changes in the fair value or future cash flows of foreign currency denominated financial instruments as a result of changes in foreign exchange rates is provided below in section v. iii Interest rate risk management In the normal course of business the Group borrows to finance its operations.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk because the fair value of fixed rate borrowings and the cash flows associated with floating rate borrowings will fluctuate with changes in interest rates.
The Groups policy is to manage the interest rate risk on long-term borrowings by ensuring that the exposure to floating interest rates remains within a 30% to 70% range, including the impact of interest rate derivatives.
Note 25 details the interest rates on the Groups bank overdrafts, loans and other borrowings by the earlier of contractual re-pricing and maturity date and a sensitivity analysis that is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of the Groups financial position and performance to changes in interest rates is provided below in section v. iv Equity price risk management The Group is exposed to equity price risk because certain available-for-sale financial assets, held by the Law Debenture Trust on behalf of the Company as security in respect of the Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme, are linked to equity indices note 34.
Investments in equity indices are inherently exposed to less risk than individual equity investments because they represent a naturally diverse portfolio.
Note 34 details the Groups other retirement benefit assets and liabilities.
v Sensitivity analysis A financial instrument is defined in IAS 32 as any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity effectively the contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset from another entity and a financial liability effectively the contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset to another entity or equity instrument effectively a residual interest in the assets of an entity of another.
IFRS 7 requires disclosure of a sensitivity analysis that is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of the Groups financial position and performance to changes in market variables commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and interest rates as a result of changes in the fair value or cash flows associated with the Groups financial instruments.
The sensitivity analysis provided discloses the effect on profit or loss and equity at 31 December 2008 assuming that a reasonably possible change in the relevant risk variable had occurred at 31 December 2008 and been applied to the risk exposures in existence at that date to show the effects of reasonably possible changes in price on profit or loss and equity to the next annual reporting date.
Reasonably possible changes in market variables used in the sensitivity analysis are based on implied volatilities, where available, or historical data for energy prices and foreign exchange rates.
Reasonably possible changes in interest rates are based on management judgement and historical experience.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared based on 31 December 2008 balances and on the basis that the balances, the ratio of fixed to floating rates of debt and derivatives, the proportion of energy contracts that are financial instruments, the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies and the hedge designations in place at 31 December 2008 are all constant.
Excluded from this analysis are all non-financial assets and liabilities and energy contracts that are not financial instruments under IAS 39.
The sensitivity to foreign exchange rates relates only to monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the commercial operation transacting, and excludes the translation of the net assets of foreign operations to pounds sterling, but includes the corresponding impact of net investment hedges.
The sensitivity analysis provided is hypothetical only and should be used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because the Groups actual exposure to market rates is constantly changing as the Groups portfolio of commodity, debt and foreign currency contracts changes.
Changes in fair values or cash flows based on a variation in a market variable cannot be extrapolated because the relationship between the change in market variable and the change in fair value or cash flows may not be linear.
In addition, the effect of a change in a particular market variable on fair values or cash flows is calculated without considering interrelationships between the various market rates or mitigating actions that would be taken by the Group.
The sensitivity analysis provided below excludes the impact of proprietary energy trading assets and liabilities because the VaR associated with the Groups proprietary energy trading activities has already been provided above in section i.
indd 76 1 10 3 09 15:48:08 0 3 09 15:48:08 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 4.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The impacts of reasonably possible changes in commodity prices on profit and equity, both after taxation, based on the assumptions provided above are as follows: 2008 2007 Reasonably Reasonably possible possible change change Energy prices Base price i in variable Base price i in variable UK gas p therm 56 -14 51 -12 UK power MWh 53 -9 52 -11 UK coal US$ tonne 93 -24 101 -15 UK emissions tonne 16 -4 24 -5 UK oil US$ bbl 58 -15 88 -14 North American gas p therm 48 -11 38 -4 North American power MWh 41 -6 28 -5 European power MWh 61 -9 i The base price represents the average forward market price over the duration of the active market curve used in the sensitivity analysis provided.
2008 2007 Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on profit equity profit equity Incremental profit loss m m m m UK energy prices combined increase decrease 326 322 90 90 34 34 56 56 North American energy prices combined increase decrease 25 25 27 27 103 103 54 54 European energy prices combined increase decrease 44 44 The impacts of reasonably possible changes in interest rates on profit and equity, both after taxation, based on the assumptions provided above are as follows: 2008 2007 Reasonably Reasonably possible possible change Impact on Impact on change Impact on Impact on in variable profit equity in variable profit equity % m m % m m Interest rates and incremental profit loss UK interest rates -1.00 16 16 19 23 -0.50 5 5 4 4 US interest rates -1.00 2 2 12 14 -0.50 2 2 Canadian interest rates -1.00 -0.50 2 2 Euro interest rates -1.00 3 3 -0.50 Japanese interest rates -1.00 17 23 -0.50 1 1 New Zealand interest rates -1.00 2 2 -0.50 1 1 The impacts of reasonably possible changes in foreign currency rates relative to pounds sterling on profit and equity, both after taxation, based on the assumptions provided above are as follows: 2008 2007 Reasonably Reasonably possible possible change Impact on Impact on change Impact on Impact on Foreign exchange rates and incremental in variable profit equity in variable profit equity profit loss % m m % m m US dollar -10 46 45 12 12 -10 32 28 14 12 Canadian dollar -10 3 1 31 28 -10 3 1 12 10 Euro -10 3 2 20 17 -10 1 1 18 17 Japanese yen -10 3 2 -10 1 New Zealand dollar -10 10 10 -10 Norwegian krone -10 4 3 -10 2 2 77 C Centrica p58-144.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED b Credit risk management Credit risk is the risk of loss associated with a counterpartys inability or failure to discharge its obligations under a contract.
The Group is exposed to credit risk in its treasury, trading, energy procurement and downstream activities.
During 2008, there has been a continuing shortage of available credit in the market.
As a result of these external market factors, the Group is encountering an increase in credit risk compared with that experienced at the end of 2007.
The Group continues to manage credit risk in accordance with its financial risk management processes and has not incurred any additional significant credit losses as a result of the increased credit risk.
Treasury, trading and energy procurement activities Counterparty credit exposures are monitored by individual counterparty and by category of credit rating, and are subject to approved limits.
The majority of significant exposures are with A-rated counterparties or better.
The Group uses master netting agreements to reduce credit risk and net settles payments with counterparties where net settlement provisions exist.
In addition, the Group employs a variety of other methods to mitigate credit risk: margining, various forms of bank and parent company guarantees and letters of credit.
100% of the Groups credit risk associated with its treasury, trading and energy procurement activities is with counterparties in related energy industries or with financial institutions.
The Group measures and manages the credit risk associated with the Groups entire treasury, trading and energy procurement portfolio.
In contrast, IFRS 7 defines credit risk as the risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a financial loss for the other party by failing to discharge an obligation and requires disclosure of information about the exposure to credit risk arising from financial instruments only.
Only certain of the Groups energy procurement contracts constitute financial instruments under IAS 39 note 2.
As a result, while the Group manages the credit risk associated with both financial and nonfinancial energy procurement contracts, it is the carrying value of financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 note 28 that represents the maximum exposure to credit risk in accordance with IFRS 7 because credit losses associated with contracts that are not recognised on the Balance Sheet will not be recognised as such in the Income Statement.
Downstream activities In the case of business customers, credit risk is managed by checking a companys creditworthiness and financial strength both before commencing trade and during the business relationship.
For residential customers, creditworthiness is ascertained normally before commencing trade by reviewing an appropriate mix of internal and external information to determine the payment mechanism required to reduce credit risk to an acceptable level.
Certain customers will only be accepted on a prepayment basis.
In some cases, an ageing of receivables is monitored and used to manage the exposure to credit risk associated with both business and residential customers.
In other cases, credit risk is monitored and managed by grouping customers according to method of payment or profile.
Note 21 provides further detail of the Groups exposure to credit risk on derivative financial instruments, note 20 provides detail of the Groups exposure to credit risk on trade and other receivables, note 23 provides detail of the Groups exposure to credit risk on cash and cash equivalents and note 28 provides the carrying value of all financial assets representing the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
c Liquidity risk management and going concern Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group can incur significant movements in its liquidity position due particularly to the seasonal nature of its business and margin cash arrangements associated with certain wholesale commodity contracts.
The Groups liquidity position has been particularly volatile during 2008 as significant volatility in commodity prices has seen large increases in cash required to fund working capital and margin cash balances.
At 31 December 2008, the Group was holding 43 million 2007: 93 million of cash as collateral against counterparty balances, and had pledged 669 million 2007: 118 million of cash as collateral, principally under margin calls to cover exposure to mark-to-market positions on derivative contracts representing a net cash outflow during the year of 556 million 2007: 2 million inflow, write-offs of pledged balances of 22 million 2007: nil, acquisition of cash collateral balances held of 33 million 2007: nil and exchange adjustments of 100 million 2007: 5 million.
Generally, cash paid or received as collateral is interest-bearing and is free from any restriction over its use by the holder.
To mitigate this risk the Group holds cash on deposit and maintains significant committed facilities.
The Group closely monitors, and has a number of treasury policies to manage its liquidity risk.
Cash forecasts identifying the Groups liquidity requirements are produced regularly and are stress-tested for different scenarios including, but not limited to, reasonably possible increases or decreases in commodity prices and the potential cash implications of a ratings downgrade.
The Group seeks to ensure that sufficient financial headroom exists for at least a 12-month period to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
It is the Group's policy to maintain committed facilities of at least 1,200 million less available surplus cash resources, to raise at least 75% of its net debt excluding non-recourse debt over 200 million in the long-term debt market and to maintain an average term to maturity in the recourse long-term debt portfolio greater than five years.
indd 78 1 10 3 09 15:48:09 0 3 09 15:48:09 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 4.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED At 31 December 2008, the Group held 2,939 million 2007: 1,130 million of cash and cash equivalents, had undrawn committed bank borrowing facilities of 1,350 million 2007: 1,300 million, plus a committed letter of credit facility for Canadian $200 million 2007: C$nil made available to the Direct Energy business in North America of which Canadian $146 million was drawn at 31 December 2008 2007: C$nil, 367% 2007: 321% of the Groups net debt over 200 million has been raised in the long-term debt market and the average term to maturity of the long-term debt portfolio was 9.3 years 2007: 7.1 years.
The relatively high level of available cash resources and undrawn committed bank borrowing facilities has enabled the Directors to conclude that the Group has sufficient headroom to continue as a going concern.
The statement of going concern is included in the Directors' Report Governance, on page 42.
The Groups liquidity position at 31 December 2008 was significantly improved by the proceeds of the Rights Issue which completed in December 2008.
The Rights Issue was undertaken in the expectation of acquiring a 25% stake in Lake Acquisitions Limited, the owner of the British Energy Group plc, from Electricit fide France S. A.
The Group will reassess its liquidity position before committing to any acquisition and would seek to finance any transaction with the Rights Issue proceeds, additional debt and, possibly, the sale of certain assets.
Maturities of derivative financial liabilities, trade and other payables, bank borrowings and provisions are provided in notes 21, 24, 25 and 27, respectively.
Details of commitments and contingencies are provided in note 36 and details of undrawn committed bank borrowing facilities are provided in note 25.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The Groups objective when managing capital is to maintain an optimal capital structure and strong credit rating to minimise the cost of capital.
In addition, in a number of areas in which the Group operates, the Groups strong capital structure and good credit standing are important elements of the Groups competitive position.
At 31 December 2008, the Groups long-term credit rating was A3 stable outlook for Moodys Investor Services Inc. 2007: A3 stable outlook and A negative outlook for Standard & Poors Rating Services 2007: A negative outlook.
The Group monitors capital, using a medium term view of three to five years, on the basis of a number of financial ratios generally used by industry and by the rating agencies.
This includes monitoring gearing ratios, interest cover and cash flow to debt ratios.
The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements but as is common for most companies the level of debt that can be raised is restricted by the Companys Articles of Association.
Net debt is limited to the greater of 5 billion and a gearing ratio of three times adjusted capital and reserves.
This restriction can be amended or removed by the shareholders of the Company passing an ordinary resolution.
The Groups capital structure is managed against the various financial ratios as required to maintain strong credit ratings.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, repurchase shares, issue debt or repay debt.
During the year, the Group raised proceeds of approximately 2,164 million, net of issue costs of approximately 65 million, through a three for eight Rights Issue of new ordinary shares at 160 pence per share, representing a bonus to existing shareholders of 0.1233 ordinary shares per ordinary share held based on the closing share price of 267.75 pence per ordinary share on 21 November 2008, the last day the shares traded cum-rights.
Centrica and Electricit fide France S. A. EDF announced that they were in discussions in relation to an option for Centrica to acquire a 25% interest in British Energy Group plc.
Centrica and EDF continue these discussions.
Centrica would seek to finance any transaction with the Rights Issue proceeds, additional debt and, possibly, the sale of certain assets.
If Centrica does not acquire an interest in British Energy Group, Centrica would evaluate the use of funds for other acquisition opportunities that meet its vertical integration objective, for general corporate purposes or for returns to shareholders with a view to maintaining an appropriate capital structure and maximising long-term shareholder value.
On 13 January 2009, Standard & Poors Rating Services placed the Groups long-term credit rating on CreditWatch with negative implications reflecting the increased likelihood of the Group completing this transaction and the impact on the financial risk of the Group.
Standard & Poors Rating Services has stated that any downgrade of the Groups credit rating was likely to be limited to one notch.
SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS i Primary reporting format business segments The Groups business segments are distinguished on the basis of the internal management reporting system, and reflect the day-today management of the business.
The products and services included within each segment are described in the Directors Report Business Review, on pages 8 to 34.
Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 restated iv Less interLess intersegment segment Gross segment revenue Group Gross segment revenue Group revenue i, ii, iii revenue revenue i, ii, iii revenue a Revenue m m m m m m Continuing operations: British Gas Residential 7,769 7,769 6,457 6,457 British Gas Business 3,063 3,063 2,431 2,431 British Gas Services 1,349 1,349 1,279 1,279 British Gas 12,181 12,181 10,167 10,167 i Gas production and development 1,784 1,318 466 923 624 299 i Power generation 1,264 595 669 880 578 302 ii Industrial and commercial 1,522 486 1,036 838 838 iii Accord energy trading 61 12 49 24 12 12 Centrica Energy 4,631 2,411 2,220 2,665 1,214 1,451 i, iv Centrica Storage 280 59 221 327 57 270 Direct Energy 5,824 5,824 3,992 3,992 i European Energy 890 1 889 395 3 392 v Other operations 10 10 23,816 2,471 21,345 17,546 1,274 16,272 Discontinued operations: The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund 42 42 42 42 Group revenue from continuing operations is derived from the following activities: 2008 2007 restated iv Year ended 31 December m m iv Sale of goods 19,575 14,551 Rendering of services 1,729 1,693 Other income 41 28 Group revenue 21,345 16,272 i Inter-segment revenue reflects the level of revenue generated on sales to other Group segments on an arms length basis.
During the second half of 2008, Gas production and development began to sell gas downstream at forward market prices.
Prior to this, Gas production and development sold all gas produced at month ahead prices.
This change resulted in an additional 54 million of net revenue being reported in Gas production and development in 2008 than would have been reported had Gas production and development continued to sell gas downstream at month ahead prices.
ii Inter-segment revenue in the Industrial and commercial segment reflects the sale of upstream gas produced or procured to other Group segments on an arms length basis.
Prior to 2008, the Groups downstream businesses procured gas directly from Gas production and development or external counterparties.
iii The external revenue presented for Accord energy trading comprises both realised settled and unrealised fair value changes from trading in physical and financial energy contracts.
Inter-segment revenue arising in Accord represents the recharge of brokerage fees to other Group segments.
iv Gross segment revenue, inter-segment revenue and Group revenue have been restated to report gas sales revenue of Centrica Storage net of cost of sales to better reflect the nature of the transactions as explained in note 2. v Other operations comprise British Gas New Energy, Group Treasury, Group Property, Information Services and other shared services.
indd 80 1 10 3 09 15:48:09 0 3 09 15:48:09 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 6.
SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS CONTINUED Operating profit loss Operating profit loss before exceptional items and Exceptional items Certain re-measurements after exceptional items and Year ended 31 December certain re-measurements note 8 note 8 certain re-measurements 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 b Operating profit m m m m m m m m Continuing operations: British Gas Residential 379 571 787 39 408 610 British Gas Business 143 120 233 317 90 437 British Gas Services 195 151 195 151 British Gas 717 842 1,020 356 303 1,198 Gas production and i development 1,164 429 55 16 1,219 413 Power generation 7 46 8 43 1 3 Industrial and commercial 329 179 104 95 225 84 Accord energy trading 37 9 1 3 36 6 Centrica Energy 879 663 150 157 1,029 506 Centrica Storage 195 240 7 8 202 232 Direct Energy 215 187 465 53 250 240 ii European Energy 56 17 67 87 9 210 8 iii Other operations 8 8 1,942 1,949 67 1,415 235 460 2,184 Discontinued operations: The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund 39 227 266 Amortisation, writeShare of results of joint downs and ventures and associates Depreciation of property, impairments Year ended 31 December net of interest and taxation plant and equipment of intangibles 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 c Included within operating profit m m m m m m Continuing operations: British Gas Residential 10 16 26 27 British Gas Business 3 3 8 19 British Gas Services 13 13 5 4 British Gas 26 32 39 50 Gas production and development 280 250 21 8 Power generation 9 4 101 93 31 1 Industrial and commercial 1 1 2 Accord energy trading Centrica Energy 9 4 382 344 54 9 Centrica Storage 22 24 Direct Energy 75 62 14 15 European Energy 3 1 2 2 12 10 iii Other operations 8 9 10 8 12 5 515 473 129 92 Discontinued operations: The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund 21 1 i During the second half of 2008, Gas production and development began to sell gas downstream at forward market prices.
This change resulted in an additional 54 million of operating profit being reported in Gas production and development in 2008 than would have been reported had Gas production and development continued to sell gas downstream at month ahead prices.
ii During 2008, exceptional charges of 67 million were incurred in the European Energy segment, including a 45 million impairment of the Oxxio goodwill, explained in note 16, and a 22 million impairment of a receivable balance in Oxxio relating to historic overpayments of regulatory energy revenue tax, reflecting the reduced likelihood of realising the balance in the future.
iii Other operations comprise British Gas New Energy, Group Treasury, Group Property, Information Services and other shared services.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation and write-downs of intangibles in the Other operations segment are charged out to other Group segments.
In 2007, mark-to-market assets and liabilities were retained in Industrial and commercial.
ii Other operations comprise assets and liabilities of British Gas New Energy, Group Treasury, Group Property, Information Services, GF One Limited, GF Two Limited and other shared services.
iii Capital employed represents the investment required to operate each of the Groups segments.
Capital employed is used by the Group to calculate the return on capital employed for each of the Groups segments as part of the Groups managing for value concept.
Additional value is created when the return on capital employed exceeds the cost of capital.
Net segment assets of the Group can be reconciled to the Groups capital employed as follows: 2008 2007 m m Net segment assets at 31 December 5,574 4,960 Add back deduct : Net derivative financial liabilities 2,174 429 Net power generation assets under construction and gas and storage assets under development 815 563 Cash at bank, in transit and in hand 87 53 Effect of averaging month-end balances 1,538 546 Average capital employed for year ended 31 December 5,308 5,319 82 C Centrica p58-144.
indd 82 1 10 3 09 15:48:09 0 3 09 15:48:09 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 6.
SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS CONTINUED Capital expenditure on Capital expenditure on property, plant and intangible assets other Year ended 31 December equipment note 17 than goodwill note 15 ii 2008 2007 2008 2007 e Capital expenditure m m m m British Gas Residential 15 3 13 2 British Gas Business 1 6 6 British Gas Services 16 16 3 British Gas 32 19 19 11 Gas production and development 169 117 12 15 Power generation 299 344 264 104 Industrial and commercial 7 4 2 Accord energy trading Centrica Energy 468 468 280 121 Centrica Storage 23 19 2 1 Direct Energy 92 99 21 29 European Energy 9 12 15 10 i Other operations 7 11 2 9 Additions 631 628 339 181 Decrease in prepayments related to capital expenditure 24 39 Capital expenditure of discontinued operations 26 Decrease increase in trade payables related to capital expenditure 19 155 4 Net cash outflow 626 563 184 185 i Other operations comprise British Gas New Energy, Group Treasury, Group Property, Information Services and other shared services.
ii See note 35 for additions to goodwill.
ii Secondary reporting format geographical segments The Group operates in three main geographical areas: Capital expenditure on Capital expenditure on Total assets property, plant and intangible assets other Revenue based on location of assets equipment note 17 than goodwill note 15 Year ended 31 December based on location of customer At 31 December based on location of assets based on location of assets ii 2008 2007 restated i 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m m m m m Continuing operations: UK 14,612 11,884 13,076 8,823 529 516 295 134 North America 5,824 3,992 4,051 2,576 92 99 21 29 Rest of world 909 396 1,220 456 10 13 23 18 21,345 16,272 18,347 11,855 631 628 339 181 i Restated to reflect gas sales revenue of Centrica Storage net of cost of sales to better reflect the nature of the transactions as explained in note 2. ii See note 35 for additions to goodwill.
COSTS OF CONTINUING OPERATIONS 2008 2007 restated i Analysis of costs by nature m m Transportation, distribution and metering costs 3,000 2,775 Commodity costs 12,240 7,670 Depreciation, amortisation and write-downs 451 415 Employee costs 451 415 Other costs relating to energy consumption and provision of services 997 872 Total cost of sales 17,139 12,147 Depreciation, amortisation and write-downs 193 150 Employee costs 922 901 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets 7 Profit on disposal of businesses 2 Impairment of trade receivables note 20 237 184 Foreign exchange gains 1 Other operating costs 929 950 Total operating costs before exceptional items 2,280 2,190 Exceptional items note 8 67 Total operating costs 2,347 2,190 i Cost of sales has been restated to report gas sales revenue of Centrica Storage net of cost of sales to better reflect the nature of the transactions as explained in note 2.
2008 2007 Auditors remuneration m m Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys annual accounts and Group consolidation 2.2 2.2 The auditing of other accounts within the Group pursuant to legislation including that of i countries and territories outside the UK 1.3 1.2 Total fees related to audit of parent and subsidiary entities 3.5 3.4 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services: i Other services pursuant to legislation 0.9 0.5 Services related to information technology 0.2 Services related to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the company or any of its associates 0.4 All other services 0.8 0.5 5.8 4.4 Fees in respect of pension schemes: Audit 0.1 0.1 i Includes fees in respect of review performed on the interim Financial Statements.
It is the Groups policy to seek competitive tenders for all major consultancy and advisory projects.
Appointments are made taking into account factors including expertise, experience and cost.
In addition, the Board has approved a detailed policy defining the types of work for which the auditors can tender and the approvals required.
In the past, the auditors have been engaged on assignments additional to their statutory audit duties where their expertise and experience with the Group are particularly important, including tax advice and due diligence reporting on acquisitions.
indd 84 1 10 3 09 15:48:10 0 3 09 15:48:10 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 8.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS AND CERTAIN RE-MEASUREMENTS 2008 2007 a Exceptional items note 2 m m Continuing operations: i Impairment of Oxxio goodwill and other assets 67 Discontinued operations: ii Profit on disposal of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund 227 i During 2008, exceptional charges of 67 million were incurred in the European Energy segment, including a 45 million impairment of the Oxxio goodwill, explained in note 16, and a 22 million impairment of a receivable balance in Oxxio relating to historic overpayments of regulatory energy revenue tax, reflecting the reduced likelihood of realising the balance in the future.
ii The Group deconsolidated the Fund with effect from 1 December 2007 recognising an exceptional profit on disposal amounting to 227 million in 2007.
2008 2007 b Certain re-measurements note 2 m m Certain re-measurements recognised in relation to energy contracts i Net gains arising on delivery of contracts 10 352 ii Net losses arising on market price movements and new contracts 1,417 95 iii Net losses arising on positions in relation to cross-border transportation or capacity contracts 4 13 Net re-measurement of energy contracts included within gross profit 1,411 244 iv Net losses arising on re-measurement of joint ventures energy contracts 4 9 Net re-measurement included within Group operating profit 1,415 235 Taxation on certain re-measurements 434 60 Net re-measurement after taxation 981 175 Discontinued operations: Fair value losses arising on re-measurement of the publicly traded units of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund 19 Total certain re-measurements 981 156 i As energy is delivered or consumed from previously contracted positions, the related fair value recognised in the opening balance sheet representing the discounted difference between forward energy prices at the opening balance sheet date and the contract price of energy to be delivered is charged or credited to the Income Statement.
ii Represents fair value losses arising from the change in fair value of future contracted sales and purchase contracts as a result of changes in forward energy prices between reporting dates or date of inception and the reporting date, where later.
iii Comprises movements in fair value arising on proprietary trades in relation to cross-border transportation or storage capacity, on which economic value has been created which is not wholly accounted for under the provisions of IAS 39. iv Certain re-measurements included within Group operating profit also include the Groups share of certain re-measurements relating to the energy procurement activities of joint ventures.
DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES 2008 2007 a Employee costs m m Wages and salaries 1,147 1,078 Social security costs 88 88 Other pension and retirement benefits costs 109 123 Share scheme costs 35 31 1,379 1,320 Capitalised employee costs 6 4 Employee costs recognised in the Group Income Statement 1,373 1,316 Details of Directors remuneration, share-based payments and pension entitlements in the Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 55 form part of these Financial Statements.
Details of employee share-based payments are given in note 33.
Details of the remuneration of key management personnel are given in note 37.
DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES CONTINUED 2008 2007 b Average number of employees during the year Number Number British Gas Residential 8,077 9,227 British Gas Business 2,065 2,008 British Gas Services 15,412 15,186 Centrica Energy 1,152 1,053 Centrica Storage 199 191 Direct Energy 4,991 4,839 European Energy 253 214 Other operations 668 1,190 32,817 33,908 UK 27,538 28,829 North America 4,991 4,839 Rest of world 288 240 32,817 33,908 10.
NET INTEREST 2008 2007 Interest Interest Interest Interest expense income Total expense income Total m m m m m m Continuing operations Cost of servicing net debt Interest income 106 106 95 95 Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts 128 128 109 109 i Interest expense on finance leases 23 23 87 87 151 106 45 196 95 101 Losses gains on revaluation Losses gains on fair value hedges 82 81 1 6 5 1 ii Fair value losses gains on other derivatives 396 47 349 89 24 65 Net foreign exchange translation of monetary iii assets and liabilities 345 345 58 58 478 473 5 95 87 8 Other interest Notional interest arising on discounted items 20 59 39 20 55 35 Interest on cash collateral balances 20 5 15 1 6 5 Interest on supplier early payment arrangements 15 15 15 15 iv Other interest 19 19 40 79 39 40 76 36 Interest expense income 669 658 11 331 258 73 i 2007 includes 40 million of net interest expense incurred on termination of the Humber finance lease.
ii Primarily reflects changes in the fair value of derivatives used to hedge the foreign exchange exposure associated with inter-company loans denominated in foreign currencies.
iii Primarily reflects foreign exchange gains on inter-company loans denominated in foreign currencies.
iv In 2007 the Group reached an agreement with Her Majestys Revenue and Customs HMRC on a technical matter concerning intra-group transfer pricing of gas produced within the UK Continental Shelf dating back to 2000.
The terms of the settlement resulted in a net charge of 13 million, comprising finance costs of 19 million on corporation tax deemed to have been paid late net of an associated 6 million tax credit.
indd 86 1 10 3 09 15:48:10 0 3 09 15:48:10 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 11.
TAXATION 2008 2007 Results for the year Results for the year before exceptional Exceptional items before exceptional Exceptional items items and certain and certain Results for items and certain and certain Results for re-measurements re-measurements the year re-measurements re-measurements the year a Analysis of tax charge for the year m m m m m m The tax charge comprises: Current tax UK corporation tax 398 5 403 309 309 UK petroleum revenue tax 517 517 200 200 Foreign tax 24 2 26 48 2 50 Adjustments in respect of prior years 20 20 4 4 Total current tax 919 7 926 561 2 563 Deferred tax i Current year 165 236 71 253 53 306 Adjustments in respect of prior years 8 8 19 19 ii Change in tax rates 1 1 9 9 UK petroleum revenue tax 52 52 32 32 Foreign deferred tax 4 205 201 1 5 4 Total deferred tax 108 441 333 192 58 250 Total tax on profit from continuing operations 1,027 434 593 753 60 813 i The Finance Act 2008 changed the rules concerning loss relief on decommissioning costs and, as a result of this change, the current year deferred tax charge is stated net of a 55 million credit in respect of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets.
ii The effect of the decrease of 2% to the standard rate of UK corporation tax from 1 April 2008 on the relevant temporary differences at 31 December 2007 was a credit of 12 million and a further credit of 1 million in 2008.
No other material amounts arose as a result of changes introduced by the Finance Act 2007.
The effect of changes to foreign tax rates on the relevant temporary differences at 31 December 2008 was nil 2007: charge of 3 million.
Tax on items taken directly to equity is disclosed in note 30.
The Group earns its profits primarily in the UK, therefore the tax rate used for tax on profit on ordinary activities is the standard rate for UK corporation tax, which was 28.5% for 2008 2007: 30%.
Additional charges of 21.5% 2007: 20% are applicable on the Groups UK upstream profits.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in those respective jurisdictions.
b Factors affecting the tax charge for the year The differences between the total tax shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax to the profit before tax is as follows: 2008 2007 Results for the year Results for the year before exceptional Exceptional items before exceptional Exceptional items items and certain and certain Results for items and certain and certain Results for re-measurements re-measurements the year re-measurements re-measurements the year m m m m m m Profit from continuing operations before tax 1,931 1,482 449 1,876 235 2,111 Less: share of profits in joint ventures and associates, net of interest and taxation 16 4 12 14 9 5 Group profit from continuing operations before tax 1,915 1,478 437 1,862 244 2,106 Tax on profit from continuing operations at standard UK corporation tax rate of 28.5% 2007: 30% 546 421 125 559 73 632 Effects of: Net expenses not deductible for tax purposes 48 13 61 11 11 Adjustments in respect of prior years 28 28 15 15 30 i Movement in unrecognised deferred tax assets 31 6 25 16 16 UK petroleum revenue tax rates 335 335 118 118 Overseas tax rates 8 46 54 8 5 13 Additional charges applicable to upstream profits 166 10 176 65 3 62 Changes to tax rates 1 4 3 9 9 Taxation on profit from continuing operations 1,027 434 593 753 60 813 i The movement in unrecognised deferred tax assets includes the recognition in 2008 of 55 million of deferred tax assets relating to certain decommissioning provisions, following changes to UK tax law, and non-recognition of losses in certain overseas subsidiaries.
TAXATION CONTINUED c Factors that may affect future tax charges The Group earns income from many activities, including oil and gas production in the UK, North America and elsewhere.
On average, the Group pays taxes at higher rates than the current UK statutory rate of 28% 2007: 30%.
The impact of higher rates, including petroleum revenue tax and the supplementary charge on UK Continental Shelf profits, is subject to the mix of the Groups income.
In the medium term, the Groups effective tax rate is expected to remain above the UK statutory rate.
DIVIDENDS 2008 2007 m m Prior year final dividend of 8.59 pence 2007: 7.12 pence per ordinary share 356 294 Interim dividend of 3.47 pence 2007: 2.98 pence per ordinary share 144 123 500 417 The prior year final dividend was paid on 11 June 2008 2007: 13 June.
The interim dividend was paid on 12 November 2008 2007: 14 November.
The prior year final dividend of 9.65 pence 2007: 8.00 pence per ordinary share and interim dividend of 3.90 pence 2007: 3.35 pence per ordinary share have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue in the table above.
Details of the Rights Issue are provided in notes 5, 29 and 30.
The Directors propose a final dividend of 8.73 pence per ordinary share totalling 446 million for the year ended 31 December 2008.
The dividend will be submitted for formal approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 May 2009.
These Financial Statements do not reflect this dividend payable, which will be accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ending 31 December 2009.
EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE Basic earnings per ordinary share has been calculated by dividing the loss attributable to equity holders of the Company for the year of 145 million 2007: earnings of 1,505 million by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year of 4,198 million 2007: 4,126 million.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding and the dilutive impact for both periods presented has been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
The Directors believe that the presentation of adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share, being the basic earnings per ordinary share adjusted for certain re-measurements and exceptional items, assists with understanding the underlying performance of the Group.
The reconciliation of basic to adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share is as follows: 2008 2007 restated i Pence per Pence per ordinary ordinary a Continuing and discontinued operations m share m share Loss earnings basic 145 3.5 1,505 36.5 Net exceptional items after tax notes 2 and 8 67 1.6 227 5.5 Certain re-measurement losses and gains after tax notes 2 and 8 981 23.4 156 3.8 Earnings adjusted basic 903 21.5 1,122 27.2 Loss earnings diluted 145 3.5 1,505 35.9 Earnings adjusted diluted 903 21.3 1,122 26.7 2008 2007 restated i Pence per Pence per ordinary ordinary b Continuing operations m share m share Loss earnings basic 145 3.5 1,296 31.4 Net exceptional items after tax notes 2 and 8 67 1.6 Certain re-measurement losses and gains after tax notes 2 and 8 981 23.4 175 4.2 Earnings adjusted basic 903 21.5 1,121 27.2 Loss earnings diluted 145 3.5 1,296 30.9 Earnings adjusted diluted 903 21.3 1,121 26.7 i Restated to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
indd 88 1 10 3 09 15:48:10 0 3 09 15:48:10 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 13.
EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE CONTINUED 2008 2007 restated i Pence per Pence per ordinary ordinary c Discontinued operations m share m share Earnings basic 209 5.1 Earnings diluted 209 5.0 i Restated to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
Certain re-measurements notes 2 and 8 included within operating profit comprise re-measurements arising on energy procurement activities and re-measurement of proprietary trades in relation to cross-border transportation or capacity contracts.
Certain remeasurements included within discontinued operations in 2007 comprise re-measurement of the publicly traded units of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund.
All other re-measurements are included within results before exceptional items and certain re-measurements.
In addition to basic and adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share, information is presented for diluted and adjusted diluted earnings per ordinary share.
Under this presentation, no adjustments are made to the reported earnings for either 2008 or 2007, however the weighted average number of shares used as the denominator is adjusted for potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
In 2008, no outstanding awards or options are considered to be potentially dilutive for diluted earnings per ordinary share, because doing so would decrease the loss per ordinary share.
However, potentially dilutive ordinary shares were taken into account when calculating adjusted diluted earnings per ordinary share.
2008 2007 restated i million million shares shares Weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share 4,198 4,126 Dilutive impact of share-based payment schemes 35 71 Weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per ordinary share 4,233 4,197 i Restated to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
GOODWILL 2008 2007 m m Cost and net book value 1 January 1,074 1,055 Acquisitions note 35 269 58 Adjustments to provisional fair values of acquisitions completed in previous year 2 Impairment note 16 45 Disposals 124 Exchange adjustments 210 85 31 December 1,510 1,074 2008 2007 Analysis of goodwill at 31 December by acquisition m m Direct Energy 369 335 Energy America 31 23 Enron Direct Electricity Direct 133 133 Enbridge Services 87 79 CPL WTU 253 186 ATCO 51 46 Dyno-Rod 17 17 Residential Services Group 92 67 Oxxio 69 90 Newfield 57 55 Strategic Energy 104 Caythorpe 33 Heimdal 151 Other 63 43 1,510 1,074 89 C Centrica p58-144.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Emissions allowances and renewable Exploration and Application obligation Customer evaluation software certificates Brands i relationships Consents expenditure Other Total m m m m m m m m Cost 1 January 2008 447 53 57 72 29 41 44 743 Additions acquired from a third party 57 249 14 16 1 337 Additions internally generated 2 2 Acquisitions note 35 2 20 54 76 Disposals 9 18 27 Surrenders 100 100 ii Write-downs recognised in income 22 22 Exchange adjustments 15 20 8 1 44 31 December 2008 521 193 59 108 29 97 46 1,053 Aggregate amortisation and impairment 1 January 2008 214 32 32 278 Amortisation 58142 2 76 iii Impairment recognised in income 31 31 Disposals 18 18 Exchange adjustments 6 9 15 31 December 2008 278 31 37 2 34 382 Net book value at 31 December 2008 243 162 59 71 27 97 12 671 Renewable Exploration and Application obligation Customer evaluation software certificates Brands i relationships Consents expenditure Other Total m m m m m m m m Cost 1 January 2007 398 27 57 69 29 24 37 641 Additions acquired from a third party 23 97 30 5 155 Additions internally generated 26 26 Acquisitions 10 12 22 Disposals of subsidiaries 9 1 10 Disposals 11 11 Exploration and evaluation expenditure transferred to producing assets 17 17 Surrenders 72 72 Write-downs recognised in income 13 13 Exchange adjustments 11 1 2 5 3 22 31 December 2007 447 53 57 72 29 41 44 743 Aggregate amortisation and impairment 1 January 2007 160 20 15 195 Amortisation 5310 1780 Disposals of subsidiaries 1 1 Disposals 6 6 Exchange adjustments 7 3 10 31 December 2007 214 32 32 278 Net book value at 31 December 2007 233 53 57 40 29 41 12 465 i Brands include 57 million associated with the Dyno-Rod brand, acquired on the acquisition of the Dyno group of companies during 2004.
In accordance with IAS 38 paragraph 88, management has ascribed the brand an indefinite useful life because there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the Dyno brand is expected to generate net cash inflows.
In reaching this determination, management has reviewed potential threats from competition, the risks of technological obsolescence and the expected usage of the brand by management.
ii A 21 million write-down of exploration and evaluation expenditure was recognised in Gas production and development, and a 1 million write-down was recognised in the Direct Energy segment, in operating costs to reflect a reduction in the recoverable amount of certain assets to nil, related to projects that are not commercially viable.
iii A 31 million impairment of emissions allowances was recognised in the Power generation segment, within cost of sales, to reflect a reduction in fair value less costs to sell as a result of a decrease in market prices, that was partially offset by a reduction in the obligation related to emission allowances of 30m.
indd 90 1 10 3 09 15:48:11 0 3 09 15:48:11 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 16.
IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLES WITH INDEFINITE USEFUL LIVES a Carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives allocated to cash-generating units Goodwill acquired through business combinations and indefinite lived intangible assets have been allocated for impairment testing purposes to individual cash-generating units each representing the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill or indefinite lived intangible asset is monitored for internal management purposes as follows: 2008 2007 Carrying Carrying amount of amount of indefinite indefinite Carrying lived Carrying lived Principal acquisitions to which amount of intangible amount of intangible goodwill and intangibles with indefinite goodwill asset Total goodwill asset Total Cash-generating unit useful lives relates m m m m m m British Gas Business Enron Direct Electricity Direct 133 133 133 133 British Gas Services Dyno-Rod Dyno-Rod 17 57 74 17 57 74 Centrica Energy Gas production and development Newfield Heimdal 208 208 55 55 Direct Energy Mass markets i ii energy Direct Energy ATCO CPL WTU 612 612 506 506 Direct Energy Commercial and Direct Energy ATCO Strategic i ii industrial energy Energy 196 196 83 83 Direct Energy Home and Enbridge Services Residential i ii business services Services Group 200 200 158 158 European Energy Oxxio Oxxio 69 69 90 90 iii iii Other Various 75 75 32 32 1,510 57 1,567 1,074 57 1,131 i During the year, the aggregation of assets in determining the cash-generating units for Direct Energy changed in line with the restructuring of the business into four pan-North American lines of business.
Direct Energy Mass markets energy combines Canada mass markets, US North mass markets, Texas Direct mass markets and Texas residential energy, Direct Energy Commercial and industrial energy combines Canada commercial and industrial, US North commercial and industrial and Texas commercial and industrial, and Direct Energy Home and business services combines Canada home services, US home services, Canada business services and US business services.
Comparative figures have been restated to reflect the change in the allocation of goodwill to cashgenerating units.
ii Carrying amount of goodwill also contains goodwill from other Direct Energy acquisitions which are not significant compared with the aggregate carrying value of goodwill reported within the cashgenerating unit.
iii Goodwill balances allocated across multiple cash-generating units.
The amount of goodwill allocated to each cash-generating unit is not significant compared with the aggregate carrying value of goodwill reported within the Group.
b Basis on which recoverable amount has been determined Value in use calculations have been used to determine recoverable amounts for all of the goodwill and indefinite lived intangible asset balances noted above, with the exception of the impairment test for the Centrica Energy Gas production and development cashgenerating unit, where fair value less costs to sell has been used as the basis for determining recoverable amount.
i Value in use The value in use calculations use cash flow projections based on the Groups internal Board-approved three-year business plans.
The Groups business plans are based on past experience and adjusted to reflect market trends, economic conditions, key risks, the implementation of strategic objectives and changes in commodity prices, as appropriate.
Commodity prices used in the planning process are based in part on observable market data and in part on internal estimates.
The extent to which the commodity prices used in the business plans are based on observable market data is determined by the extent to which the market for the underlying commodity is judged to be active.
Note 28 provides additional detail on the active period of each of the commodity markets in which the Group operates.
Cash flows beyond the three-year plan period have been extrapolated using growth rates in line with historic long-term growth rates in the market where the cash-generating unit operates.
Cash flows are discounted using a discount rate specific to each cash-generating unit to determine the cash-generating units value in use, which is then deemed to be its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is compared to the carrying value of each cashgenerating units net assets to determine whether the carrying values of any of the Groups goodwill or indefinite lived intangible asset balances are greater than their corresponding recoverable amounts.
IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLES WITH INDEFINITE USEFUL LIVES CONTINUED ii Fair value less costs to sell Fair value less costs to sell is used as the basis for determining the recoverable amount of goodwill allocated to Centrica Energy Gas production and development.
This methodology is deemed to be more appropriate because it is based on the post-tax cash flows arising from each field within Centrica Energy Gas production and development, which is consistent with the approach taken by management to evaluate the economic value of the underlying assets.
Fair value less costs to sell is determined by discounting the post-tax cash flows expected to be generated by the gas production and development assets within Centrica Energy Gas production and development, net of associated selling costs, taking into account those assumptions that market participants would use in estimating fair value.
Post-tax cash flows are derived from projected production profiles of each field within Centrica Energy Gas production and development, taking into account forward prices for gas and liquids over the relevant period.
Where forward market prices are not available, prices are determined based on internal model inputs.
The date of cessation of production depends on the interaction of a number of variables, such as the recoverable quantities of hydrocarbons, the production costs, the contractual duration of the licence area and the selling price of the gas and liquids produced.
As each field has specific reservoir characteristics and economic circumstances, the post-tax cash flows for each field are computed using individual economic models and key assumptions as determined by management.
Post-tax cash flows used in the fair value less costs to sell calculation for the first three years are based on the Groups internal Board-approved three-year business plans and, thereafter, are forecast on a consistent basis.
The future post-tax cash flows are discounted using a post-tax nominal discount rate of 8.5% to determine the fair value less costs to sell of Centrica Energy Gas production and development.
Fair value less costs to sell is compared to the carrying value of the Centrica Energy Gas production and development cash-generating unit to determine whether goodwill is impaired.
The discount rate used in the fair value less costs to sell calculation is determined in the same manner as the discount rates used in the value in use calculations described below, with the exception of the adjustment required to determine an equivalent pre-tax discount rate that is not required for the fair value less costs to sell calculation.
c Key rates used in value in use calculations i Growth rate to perpetuity Long-term growth rates are determined using a blend of publicly available historical data and long-term growth rate forecasts published by external analysts.
ii Discount rates The Group uses surrogates in an attempt to estimate a market assessment of the time value of money and the risks inherent in the Groups business plans in order to discount the forecast cash flows of each of the Groups cash-generating units.
Discount rates are derived from the Groups weighted average cost of capital by replacing the Groups beta with the betas of companies comparable to each of the Groups cash-generating units to estimate a cash-generating unit specific weighted average cost of capital.
Each cashgenerating units specific weighted average cost of capital is then adjusted to reflect the impact of tax in order to calculate an equivalent pre-tax discount rate.
Long-term growth rates used in the value in use calculations for each of the Groups cash-generating units are provided in the table below together with pre-tax discount rates.
Direct Energy Direct Energy British Gas Direct Energy Commercial Home and European British Gas Services Mass markets and industrial business Energy Business Dyno-Rod energy energy services Oxxio Growth rate to perpetuity 2.0% 2.5% 1.5% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% Pre-tax discount rate 9.3% 9.9% 9.3% 9.3% 9.3% 10.9% iii Inflation rates Inflation rates used in the three-year business plan were based on a blend of a number of publicly available inflation forecasts available in the UK, Europe, Canada and the US.
Inflation rates used for the value in use calculations were as follows: UK and Europe 2.5% in 2009 and 2% in 2010 and 2011, Canada 2.3% in 2009 and 2% in 2010 and 2011 and the US 2.9% in 2009 and 2% in 2010 and 2011.
indd 92 1 10 3 09 15:48:11 0 3 09 15:48:11 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 16.
IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLES WITH INDEFINITE USEFUL LIVES CONTINUED d Key assumptions used and summary of results i British Gas Business Key assumptions x Gross margin percentage: based on contractual terms for customers on existing contracts and achieved gross margin percentages in the period leading up to approval of the business plan for new and renewal customers adjusted to reflect current market conditions and higher expected transportation costs.
x Revenues: based on the average market share achieved immediately prior to the approval of the business plan, adjusted for growth forecasts based on sales and marketing activity and recent customer acquisitions, with prices based on forward market curves for both gas and electricity.
x Operating costs: based on a projection of headcount in line with expected activity and salary increases based on inflation expectations, with a slight increase in the provision for credit losses experienced historically to reflect the current economic environment in the UK.
Summary of results The recoverable amount of the British Gas Business cash-generating unit exceeded its carrying value at the impairment test date.
Reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions listed above would not cause the recoverable amount of the goodwill to be equal to or less than the carrying amount.
ii British Gas Services Dyno-Rod Key assumptions x Gross margin percentage: based on achieved gross margins in the period leading up to approval of the business plan.
x Revenues: based on revenue levels achieved in the period leading up to approval of the business plan adjusted for the impact of increased marketing spend and the targeting of key accounts with individual sales staff, with a slight reduction in growth rates to reflect the current economic environment in the UK.
x Operating costs: based on a projection of headcount in line with expected activity and salary increases based on inflation expectations.
Summary of results The recoverable amount of the British Gas Services Dyno-Rod cash-generating unit exceeded its carrying value at the impairment test date.
Reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions listed above would not cause the recoverable amount of the goodwill or indefinite lived intangible asset to be equal to or less than their carrying amounts.
iii Centrica Energy Gas production and development Key assumptions x Cash inflows: based on forward market prices for gas and oil for the active period of the market and internal model inputs thereafter, with reserve volumes and production profiles based on internal management estimates.
x Cash outflows: based on planned capital expenditure and the estimated future costs of abandonment.
x Taxation: based on tax rates expected to be in effect at the point of the forecast cash flow.
Summary of results The recoverable amount of the Centrica Energy Gas production and development cash-generating unit exceeded its carrying value at the impairment test date.
iv Direct Energy Mass markets energy Key assumptions x Gross margin percentage: based on contractual terms for customers on existing contracts and achieved gross margin percentages in the period leading up to approval of the business plan for new and renewal customers, adjusted to reflect competitor data, where available.
Where applicable, regulated gross margin percentages are based on the gross margin percentages included in regulatory applications submitted to the Alberta Utilities Commission in Canada.
x Revenues: based on average market share by individual market sector achieved in the period immediately prior to the approval of the business plan, adjusted for expectations of growth or decline based on individual jurisdiction to reflect regulatory or competitive differences, including customer propensity to switch, and contractual prices, with non-contractual prices based on forward market gas and power curves in Canada and the US.
x Operating costs: based on a projection of headcount in line with expected activity and salary increases based on inflation expectations, with a slight increase in the provision for credit losses experienced historically to reflect the current negative economic environment in the US, and, to a lesser extent, Canada.
IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLES WITH INDEFINITE USEFUL LIVES CONTINUED Summary of results The recoverable amount of the Direct Energy Mass markets energy cash-generating unit exceeded its carrying value at the impairment test date.
v Direct Energy Commercial and industrial energy Key assumptions x Gross margin percentage: based on achieved gross margin percentages in the period leading up to approval of the business plan, increased to reflect an expected easing of competitive pressure throughout the plan period and decreased to reflect the current negative economic environment in the US, and, to a lesser extent, Canada.
x Revenues: based on historical growth trends and planned sales activities by individual market sector with an adjustment to reflect an increase in volumes driven by the acquisition of Strategic Energy as explained in note 35.
Prices are based on forward market curves for gas and electricity in Canada and the US.
x Operating costs: based on expected increases in existing cost base to reflect increased activity as a slightly declining percentage of gross margins to reflect expected synergies associated with the acquisition of Strategic Energy as explained in note 35.
Summary of results The recoverable amount of the Direct Energy Commercial and industrial energy cash-generating unit exceeded its carrying value at the impairment test date.
vi Direct Energy Home and business services Key assumptions x Gross margin percentage: based on gross margin percentages achieved in the period leading up to approval of the business plan, adjusted to reflect the current economic conditions and housing decline in North America.
x Revenues: based on historical growth trends by individual market sector adjusted for new product offerings and continued penetration into new markets.
x Operating costs: based on projected headcount and inflationary increases.
Summary of results The recoverable amount of the Direct Energy Home and business services cash-generating unit exceeded its carrying value at the impairment test date.
vii European Energy Oxxio Key assumptions x Gross margin percentage: based on the gross margin percentages achieved in the period leading up to approval of the business plan, adjusted to reflect the increase in levels of competition currently being experienced in The Netherlands.
x Revenues: based on customer account growth achieved in the period leading up to approval of the business plan, adjusted downward to reflect the impact of the recent increases in competition, with prices reflecting forward market curves for gas and electricity.
x Operating costs: based on projected headcount and inflationary increases adjusted to reflect recently implemented cost improvement programmes and an increase in web enabled customer solutions.
Summary of results The recoverable amount of the European Energy Oxxio cash-generating unit was below its carrying value by 45 million at the impairment test date and accordingly an impairment loss of this amount has been recognised in the Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2008 within exceptional operating costs.
The impairment loss arose due to a mixture of more competitive markets and lower margins in the forecast period due to procurement issues that arose during 2008 with the increased volatility in energy markets.
The European Energy Oxxio value in use calculation was based on a discount rate of 10.9% 2007: 10.7%, and assumed an average gross margin percentage of 9.0% over the three years with closing customer numbers of approximately 750,000 in all three years.
At 31 December 2008, the carrying value of the European Energy Oxxio cash-generating unit was equal to its recoverable amount.
As a result, a reasonably possible decrease in gross margin percentage or customer numbers, below the levels used in the value in use calculation above, would potentially result in the recoverable amount of the European Energy Oxxio cash-generating unit falling below its carrying value, triggering a further impairment loss.
If, for example, the value in use calculation assumed gross margin percentages 0.5ppts lower, than those used, a further goodwill impairment loss of approximately 32 million would have been recorded, while a 5% reduction in customer numbers would have resulted in an additional goodwill impairment loss of approximately 23 million.
indd 94 1 10 3 09 15:48:11 0 3 09 15:48:11 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 17.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Plant, Land and equipment Power Gas storage and buildings and vehicles generation production i ii ii, iii ii, iii, iv Total m m m m m Cost 1 January 2008 39 288 2,076 5,433 7,836 Additions 115 312 204 631 Acquisitions note 35 4 342 346 Disposals 18 8 8 34 Revisions and additions to decommissioning liability note 27 16 165 181 Exchange adjustments 1 25 87 81 194 31 December 2008 22 424 2,483 6,225 9,154 Aggregate depreciation and impairment 1 January 2008 17 121 305 3,483 3,926 Charge for the year 1 46 117 351 515 Disposals 8 8 7 23 Exchange adjustments 8 19 29 56 31 December 2008 10 167 434 3,863 4,474 Net book value at 31 December 2008 12 257 2,049 2,362 4,680 Plant, Land and equipment Power Gas storage and buildings and vehicles generation production i ii ii, iii ii, iii, iv Total m m m m m Cost 1 January 2007 38 648 1,732 4,860 7,278 Additions 76 386 166 628 Exploration and evaluation expenditure transferred to producing assets 17 17 Acquisitions 10 244254 Disposals of subsidiaries 323 323 Disposals 173 52 1 226 Revisions and additions to decommissioning liability 12 80 92 Exchange adjustments 1 50 2 67 116 31 December 2007 39 288 2,076 5,433 7,836 Aggregate depreciation and impairment 1 January 2007 16 222 244 3,141 3,623 Charge for the year 1 75 107 311 494 Disposals of subsidiaries 102 102 Disposals 90 48 138 Exchange adjustments 16 2 31 49 31 December 2007 17 121 305 3,483 3,926 Net book value at 31 December 2007 22 167 1,771 1,950 3,910 95 C Centrica p58-144.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED 2008 2007 i The net book value of land and buildings comprises the following: m m Freeholds 5 14 Long leaseholds 1 1 Short leaseholds 6 7 12 22 2008 2007 ii Assets in the course of construction are included within the following categories of property, plant and equipment: m m Plant, equipment and vehicles 33 7 Power generation 697 393 Gas storage and production 186 202 916 602 2008 2007 Gas storage Gas storage Power and Power and generation production Total generation production Total iii Assets held under finance leases included in totals above m m m m m m Cost at 1 January 469 415 884 882 415 1,297 Additions 4 4 v Transferred out of assets held under finance leases 417 417 Cost at 31 December 469 415 884 469 415 884 Aggregate depreciation at 1 January 90 352 442 89 344 433 Charge for the year 28 8 36 60 8 68 v Transferred out of assets held under finance leases 59 59 Aggregate depreciation at 31 December 118 360 478 90 352 442 Net book value at 31 December 351 55 406 379 63 442 iv The net book value of decommissioning costs included within gas storage and production assets was 413 million 2007: 209 million.
v Relates to the Humber Power Station that was the subject of a finance lease that was terminated in 2007.
The net book value of assets to which title was restricted Spalding finance lease asset at 31 December 2008 was 351 million 2007: 379 million.
INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES Investments in joint ventures and associates Shareholder Goodwill Investments loans Total a Interest in joint ventures and associates m m m m 1 January 2008 192 30 63 285 Decrease in shareholder loans 19 19 Share of profits for the year 12 12 Exchange adjustments 52 52 31 December 2008 256 30 44 330 96 C Centrica p58-144.
indd 96 1 10 3 09 15:48:11 0 3 09 15:48:11 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 18.
INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES CONTINUED Investments in joint ventures and associates Shareholder Investments Goodwill loans Total m m m m 1 January 2007 171 26 23 220 Additions 1 4 38 43 Increase in shareholder loans 2 2 Share of profits for the year 5 5 Exchange adjustments 15 15 31 December 2007 192 30 63 285 b Share of joint ventures assets and liabilities The Groups share of joint ventures gross assets and gross liabilities at 31 December 2008 principally comprises its interests in Braes of Doune Wind Farm Scotland Limited renewable power generation, Barrow Offshore Wind Limited renewable power generation and Segebel SA energy supply.
2008 2007 Braes of Doune Wind Farm Scotland Barrow Offshore Limited Wind Limited Segebel SA Other i Total Total m m m m m m Share of current assets 12 7 185 204 100 Share of non-current assets 39 64 309 412 350 5171494 616 450 Share of current liabilities 24 1 148 173 78 Share of non-current liabilities 18 24 114 1 157 150 42 25 262 1 330 228 Share of net assets of joint ventures and associates 9 46 232 1 286 222 Shareholder loans 32 10 2 44 63 Interests in joint ventures and associates 41 56 232 1 330 285 Net debt cash included in share of net assets 36 15 42 2 11 35 i Other includes the Groups interest in Coots CO2 pipeline construction.
The Groups interest in Coots is not significant relative to the Groups interests in joint ventures in aggregate.
2008 2007 Braes of Doune Wind Farm Scotland Barrow Offshore c Share of profits losses in joint ventures Limited Wind Limited Segebel SA Other i Total Total and associates m m m m m m Income 1011496 517 386 Expenses 3 5 495 503 379 761 14 7 Interest 1 1 Tax 2 1 1 2 2 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 5 4 3 12 5 i Other includes the Groups interest in Coots CO pipeline construction.
2 The Groups share of the investments in and results of Braes of Doune Wind Farm Scotland Limited and Barrow Offshore Wind Limited are included within the Power generation segment.
The Groups share of the investment in and results of Segebel SA are included within the European Energy segment.
INVENTORIES 2008 2007 m m Gas in storage and transportation 223 134 Other raw materials and consumables 93 84 Finished goods and goods for resale 96 23 412 241 There are no inventories which are carried at fair value less cost to sell 2007: nil.
The Group consumed 515 million of inventories 2007: 488 million during the year.
Write-downs of inventory of 23 million 2007: nil were recognised in gross profit during the year to reflect the impact of a reduction in the forward market price of gas on the net realisable value of gas in storage and transportation, with 10 million recognised in Direct Energy, 8 million recognised in Centrica Energy and 5 million recognised in Centrica Storage.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2008 2007 Current Non-current Current Non-current m m m m Financial assets: Trade receivables 2,142 25 1,405 22 Accrued energy income 2,480 1,678 Cash collateral pledged 669 118 Other receivables 330 9 435 11 5,621 34 3,636 33 Less: Provision for credit losses 541 431 5,080 34 3,205 33 Non-financial assets: Prepayments and other receivables 255 218 5,335 34 3,423 33 Trade and other receivables include financial assets representing the contractual right to receive cash or other financial assets from residential customers, business customers and treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties as follows: 2008 2007 Current Non-current Current Non-current m m m m Financial assets by class: Residential customers 2,217 25 1,960 23 Business customers 1,651 9 802 9 Treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties 1,753 874 1 5,621 34 3,636 33 Less: Provision for credit losses 541 431 5,080 34 3,205 33 Receivables from residential and business customers are generally considered to be fully performing until such time as the payment that is due remains outstanding past the contractual due date.
Contractual due dates range from being due upon receipt to due in 30 days.
An ageing of the carrying value of trade and other receivables that are past due but not considered to be individually impaired by class is as follows: 2008 2007 Treasury, trading Treasury, trading and energy and energy Residential Business procurement Residential Business procurement customers customers counterparties customers customers counterparties Days past due m m m m m m Less than 30 days 299 123 5 276 55 3089 days 127 141 2 174 41 Less than 90 days 426 264 7 450 96 90182 days 89 34 91 47 183365 days 109 51 5 98 37 Greater than 365 days 126 17 5 62 17 750 366 17 701 197 98 C Centrica p58-144.
indd 98 1 10 3 09 15:48:12 0 3 09 15:48:12 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 20.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES CONTINUED At 31 December 2008 there were 107 million 2007: 87 million of receivables, net of provisions for credit losses, from residential customers and 25 million 2007: nil from treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties that were considered to be individually impaired.
There were no individually impaired receivables, net of provisions for credit losses, from business customers.
Receivables from residential customers are generally reviewed for impairment on an individual basis once a customer discontinues their relationship with the Group.
The provision for credit losses is based on an incurred loss model and is determined by application of expected default and loss factors, determined by historical loss experience and current sampling to the various balances receivable from residential and business customers on a portfolio basis, in addition to provisions taken against individual accounts.
Balances are written off when recoverability is assessed as being remote.
Movements in the provision for credit losses by class are as follows: Treasury, trading and energy Residential Business procurement customers customers counterparties Total 2008 m m m m 1 January 350 81 431 Impairment of trade receivables 141 85 11 237 Receivables written off 118 38 156 Exchange adjustments 26 3 29 31 December 399 131 11 541 Treasury, trading and energy Residential Business procurement customers customers counterparties Total 2007 m m m m 1 January 270 49 319 Impairment of trade receivables 132 52 184 Receivables written off 55 20 75 Exchange adjustments 3 3 31 December 350 81 431 The charge for the impairment of trade receivables is stated net of credits for the release of specific provisions made in previous years, relating mainly to residential customers in the UK, which are no longer required.
At 31 December 2008 the Group held 23 million 2007: 36 million of customer deposits for the purposes of mitigating the credit risk associated with receivables from residential and business customers.
Exposure to credit risk associated with receivables from treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties is monitored by counterparty credit rating as follows: Receivables from treasury, trading and energy procurement Carrying value AAA AA A BBB BB or lower Unrated counterparties by credit rating m m m m m m m 2008 1,753 3 478 891 260 14 107 2007 8757189277129 26247 The unrated counterparty receivables are comprised primarily of amounts due from subsidiaries of rated entities, exchanges or clearing houses.
Receivables from treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties are managed in accordance with the Groups counterparty credit policy as described in note 4.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Derivative financial instruments are generally held for the purposes of proprietary energy trading, treasury management or energy procurement.
Derivatives held for the purposes of proprietary energy trading are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised in the Groups results for the year before exceptional items and certain re-measurements, with the exception of certain derivatives related to cross-border transportation and capacity contracts note 2.
Derivative financial instruments held for the purposes of treasury management or energy procurement are also carried at fair value, with changes in the fair value of derivatives relating to treasury management reflected in the results for the year before exceptional items and certain re-measurements, and those relating to energy procurement reflected in certain re-measurements.
In cases where a derivative qualifies for hedge accounting, derivatives are classified as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
Notes 2 and 22 provide further detail on the Groups hedge accounting.
Energy contracts designated at fair value through profit and loss include certain energy contracts that the Group has, at its option, designated at fair value through profit and loss under IAS 39 because the energy contract contains one or more embedded derivatives that significantly modify the cash flows under the contract note 2.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED The carrying values of derivative financial instruments by product type for accounting purposes are as follows: 2008 2007 m m Derivative financial instruments held for proprietary energy trading Derivative financial instruments held for trading under IAS 39 Energy derivatives assets 119 44 Energy derivatives liabilities 6 52 113 8 Derivative financial instruments held for the purposes of treasury management or energy procurement Derivative financial instruments held for trading under IAS 39 Energy derivatives assets 1,299 789 Energy derivatives liabilities 3,228 1,100 Interest rate derivatives assets 2 2 Interest rate derivatives liabilities 19 5 Foreign exchange derivatives assets 200 19 Foreign exchange derivatives liabilities 295 80 2,041 375 Energy contracts designated at fair value through profit and loss Energy derivatives assets 109 9 Energy derivatives liabilities 95 86 14 77 Derivative financial instruments in hedge accounting relationships Energy derivatives assets 24 123 Energy derivatives liabilities 365 68 Interest rate derivatives assets 62 Interest rate derivatives liabilities 4 7 Foreign exchange derivatives assets 100 Foreign exchange derivatives liabilities 77 17 260 31 Net total 2,174 429 The net total reconciles to the Balance Sheet as follows: 2008 2007 m m Derivative financial instruments non-current assets 195 72 Derivative financial instruments current assets 1,720 914 1,915 986 Derivative financial instruments current liabilities 3,932 1,404 Derivative financial instruments non-current liabilities 157 11 4,089 1,415 Net total 2,174 429 The contracts included within energy derivatives are subject to a wide range of detailed specific terms but comprise the following general components: 2008 2007 m m Short-term forward market purchases and sales of gas and electricity: UK and Europe 748 107 North America 814 80 Structured gas purchase contracts 28 250 Structured gas sales contracts 450 553 Other 103 65 Net total 2,143 341 100 C Centrica p58-144.
indd 100 1 10 3 09 15:48:12 0 3 09 15:48:12 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 21.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 2008 2007 Income Income Equity Statement Equity Statement Net losses gains on derivative financial instruments due to re-measurement m m m m Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit and loss: Derivative financial instruments held for proprietary energy trading 117 5 Derivative financial instruments held for trading under IAS 39 1,621 230 Energy contracts designated at fair value through profit and loss 16 35 Derivative financial instruments in hedge accounting relationships 82 360 3 535 1,438 360 193 535 Derivative-related credit risk assets Credit risk from derivative transactions is generated by the potential for the counterparty to default on its contractual obligations.
Therefore, derivative-related credit risk is represented by the positive fair value of the instrument and is normally a small fraction of the contracts notional amount.
Credit risk from derivatives is measured and managed by counterparty credit rating as follows: Fair value of derivative financial instruments with Carrying value AAA AA A BBB BB or lower Unrated a positive fair value by counterparty credit rating m m m m m m m 2008 1,915 294 1,326 128 9 158 2007 986372272 51 291 To manage derivative-related counterparty credit exposure, the Group employs the use of margining and set-off rights in some agreements.
Under margining agreements, the Group has the right to request that the counterparty pay down or collateralise the current fair value of its derivatives position when the position passes a specified threshold.
Details of collateral balances held at 31 December 2008 are provided in note 4.
Maturity profiles of derivative financial instruments liabilities The following maturity analysis shows the remaining contractual maturities on an undiscounted basis for the Groups derivative financial instruments that are in a loss position at the balance sheet date and will be settled on a net basis: 2008 2007 Energy derivatives that will be settled on a net basis m m Less than one year 456 128 One to five years 148 53 More than five years 2 604 183 2008 2007 Interest rate derivatives that will be settled on a net basis m m Less than one year 18 9 One to five years 7 4 More than five years 1 25 14 101 C Centrica p58-144.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Certain of the Groups energy contracts that are accounted for as derivatives are for the physical purchase of energy.
In these cases, IFRS 7 requires disclosure of a maturity analysis that shows cash outflows on all purchase contracts on an undiscounted basis, including those derivative contracts in a gain position at the balance sheet date as follows: 2008 2007 m m Energy procurement contracts that are carried at fair value Less than one year 20,426 12,076 One to five years 21,538 17,559 More than five years 8,095 6,719 50,059 36,354 The Groups foreign exchange derivative contracts will be settled on a gross basis.
In these cases, IFRS 7 requires disclosure of a maturity analysis that shows cash outflows on all derivative contracts on an undiscounted basis, including those derivative contracts in a gain position at the balance sheet date.
In addition to cash outflows on all foreign exchange derivative contracts that are gross settled on an undiscounted basis, the following analysis also provides disclosure of the related cash inflows as follows: 2008 2007 Outflow Inflow Outflow Inflow Foreign exchange derivatives that will be settled on a gross basis m m m m Less than one year 4,394 4,227 1,898 1,851 One to five years 487 528 811 785 More than five years 150 137 130 112 5,031 4,892 2,839 2,748 22.
HEDGE ACCOUNTING For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified either as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Note 2 details the Groups accounting policies in relation to derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting under IAS 39.
The fair values of derivative and primary financial instruments in hedge accounting relationships at 31 December were as follows: 2008 2007 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Fair value hedges 72 9 Cash flow hedges 96 369 123 67 Net investment hedges: Primary financial instruments 225 74 Derivative financial instruments 18 77 16 Fair value hedges The Groups fair value hedges consist of interest rate swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements used to protect against changes in the fair value of fixed-rate long-term debt due to movements in market interest rates.
For qualifying fair value hedges, all changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument and in the fair value of the hedged item in relation to the risk being hedged are recognised as income within net interest expense.
indd 102 1 10 3 09 15:48:12 0 3 09 15:48:12 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 22.
HEDGE ACCOUNTING CONTINUED Gains or losses arising on fair value hedges at 31 December were as follows: 2008 2007 m m Gains losses On hedging instruments 81 5 On hedged items attributable to the hedged risk 82 6 1 1 Cash flow hedges The Groups cash flow hedges consist primarily of: a physical and financial gas and power purchase contracts used to protect against the variability in future cash flows associated with highly probable forecast purchases of gas and power due to movements in market commodity prices: b forward foreign exchange contracts used to protect against the variability of functional currency denominated cash flows associated with non-functional currency denominated highly probable forecast transactions: and c interest rate swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements used to protect against the variability in cash flows associated with floating-rate borrowings due to movements in market interest rates.
Gains and losses are initially recognised in the cash flow hedging reserve in equity and are transferred to the Income Statement when the forecast cash flows affect the Income Statement.
Note 30 details movements in the cash flow hedging reserve.
The ineffective portion of gains and losses on cash flow hedging are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
During 2008, the Group recognised a 4 million loss 2007: nil due to cash flow hedge ineffectiveness.
Net investment hedges The Groups net investment hedges consist of foreign currency debt issued in the same currency as the net investment, foreign exchange forwards and cross-currency interest rate swaps used to protect against the variability in the pounds sterling value of the Groups net investments in foreign operations due to movements in the relative strength of foreign currencies to pounds sterling.
Gains and losses on the effective portion of the hedge are recognised in equity and transferred to the Income Statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
Gains and losses on the ineffective portion of the hedge are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
During 2008, the Group did not recognise any gains or losses due to net investment hedge ineffectiveness 2007: nil.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2008 2007 m m Cash at bank, in transit and in hand 87 53 Short-term deposits 2,852 1,077 Cash and cash equivalents 2,939 1,130 Cash and cash equivalents includes 34 million 2007: 40 million held by the Groups insurance subsidiary undertakings that is not readily available to be used for other purposes within the Group.
Carrying value AAA AA A Unrated Cash and cash equivalents by counterparty credit rating m m m m m 2008 2,939 1,488 751 692 8 2007 1,130 246 783 95 6 Credit risk associated with cash and cash equivalents is managed in accordance with the Groups counterparty credit policy as described in note 4.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2008 2007 Current Non-current Current Non-current m m m m Financial liabilities: Trade payables 1,384 925 Cash collateral received 43 93 Other payables 559 4 663 14 Accruals Commodity costs 1,244 736 Transportation, distribution and metering costs 70 104 Operating and other accruals 494 572 1,808 1,412 3,794 4 3,093 14 Non-financial liabilities: Other payables and accruals 381 60 131 2 Deferred income 189 3 147 4 4,364 67 3,371 20 2008 2007 Maturity analysis of financial liabilities within trade and other payables on an undiscounted basis m m Less than 90 days 3,683 2,908 90182 days 35 24 183365 days 76 161 3,794 3,093 Greater than 365 days 4 14 3,798 3,107 25.
indd 104 1 10 3 09 15:48:13 0 3 09 15:48:13 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 25.
BANK OVERDRAFTS, LOANS AND OTHER BORROWINGS CONTINUED Minimum lease Capital element of Minimum lease Capital element of payments lease payments payments lease payments 2008 2008 2007 2007 Future finance lease commitments: m m m m Amounts payable: Within one year 44 21 43 20 Between one and five years 181 107 179 98 After five years 330 269 376 299 555 397 598 417 Less future finance charges 158 181 Present value of lease obligations 397 417 2008 2007 Maturity profile of the Groups borrowings including interest and principal: m m i Within one year 454 322 Between one and five years 1,797 1,198 After five years 2,189 1,215 4,440 2,735 Interest payments 892 721 3,548 2,014 i Borrowings include amounts repayable on demand of 35 million 2007: 30 million.
At 31 December 2008, the Group had undrawn committed bank borrowing facilities of 1,350 million 2007: 1,300 million, of which 300 million matures in 2010, with the remaining 1,050 million maturing in 2012, plus a committed letter of credit facility for Canadian $200 million 2007: nil maturing in 2012, of which Canadian $146 million was drawn at 31 December 2008.
2008 2007 Before impact of Impact of foreign After impact of Before impact of Impact of After impact of foreign currency currency foreign currency foreign currency foreign currency foreign currency derivatives derivatives i derivatives derivatives derivatives i derivatives Currency composition of the Groups borrowings: m m m m m m Pounds sterling 2,509 2,346 163 1,731 1,188 543 Euros 718 37 681 131 163 294 New Zealand dollars 122 120 2 27 27 US dollars 98 1,261 1,359 56 480 536 Japanese yen 85 85 42 42 Canadian dollars 16 1,067 1,083 27 614 641 Norwegian kroner 260 260 3,548 3,548 2,014 2,014 i Includes the impact of hedges of net investments in foreign operations and foreign currency denominated inter-company loans.
Interest rate exposure by earlier of contractual re-pricing Average effective Within One to More than and maturity date: interest rate Total one year five years five years 2008 % m m m m Bank overdrafts and loans 5.6 481 207 14 260 Bonds 6.2 2,666 406 1,157 1,103 Commercial paper 4.5 4 4 Obligations under finance leases 5.8 397 397 6.1 3,548 617 1,171 1,760 Impact of interest rate derivatives 0.4 1,156 658 498 6.5 3,548 1,773 513 1,262 2007 Bank overdrafts and loans 5.8 347 232 21 94 Bonds 5.3 1,250 284 651 315 Obligations under finance leases 5.8 417 20 98 299 5.5 2,014 536 770 708 Impact of interest rate derivatives 0.5 627 464 163 6.0 2,014 1,163 306 545 105 C Centrica p58-144.
DEFERRED AND CURRENT CORPORATION TAX LIABILITIES AND ASSETS The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting periods: Accelerated tax Other timing depreciation Deferred Decommissioning Deferred Retirement benefit Accelerated tax differences petroleum corporation tax petroleum corporation tax obligation and depreciation including losses Marked-torevenue tax effect thereon revenue tax effect thereon other provisions corporation tax carried forward market Total m m m m m m m m m 1 January 2007 177 89 63 32 89 607 221 339 15 Changes to tax rates 6 23 20 9 Credit charge to income 10 5 23 11 48 96 74 58 259 Charge to equity 75 173 248 Acquisition of subsidiary 127 81 46 Exchange and other adjustments 7 3 10 31 December 2007 167 84 86 43 28 807 201 105 569 Changes to tax rates 1 1 Charge credit to income 42 21 94 47 53 63 19 441 332 i Credit to equity 111 97 208 Acquisition of subsidiary note 35 148 1 147 Exchange and other adjustments 19 10 47 38 31 December 2008 209 105 180 90 30 1,036 193 690 137 i The credit to equity for retirement benefit obligations and other provisions includes a credit of nil 2007: credit of 11 million in respect of tax rate changes.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
The following is an analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2008 2007 m m Deferred tax liabilities 448 596 Deferred tax assets 311 27 137 569 The following is an analysis of the deferred tax balances before offset: 2008 2007 m m Deferred tax assets crystallising within one year 423 124 Deferred tax assets crystallising after one year 890 502 1,313 626 Offset against deferred tax liabilities 1,002 599 Net deferred tax assets 311 27 Deferred tax liabilities crystallising within one year 58 113 Deferred tax liabilities crystallising after one year 1,392 1,082 1,450 1,195 Offset against deferred tax assets 1,002 599 Net deferred tax liabilities 448 596 At the balance sheet date the Group had certain deductible temporary differences of 178 million 2007: 376 million available for utilisation against future profits.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these temporary differences, due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
These assets may be carried forward indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date temporary differences of 76 million 2007: 62 million existed in respect of the Groups overseas investments.
The deferred tax liability arising on these temporary differences is estimated to be 3 million 2007: 3 million, which has been provided for.
Current tax assets of 39 million 2007: 40 million include 20 million 2007: 20 million of recoverable petroleum revenue tax.
indd 106 1 10 3 09 15:48:13 0 3 09 15:48:13 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 27.
PROVISIONS FOR OTHER LIABILITIES AND CHARGES Unused and Transferred 1 January Charged in reversed in Revisions and to from Exchange 31 December Current provisions for other 2008 the year the year additions non-current Utilised adjustments 2008 liabilities and charges m m m m m m m m i Restructuring costs 379 6 2 20 22 ii Decommissioning costs 33 7 1 iii Sales contract loss provision 2 2 iv Renegotiation provisions 84 20 64 v Other 14 3 1 5 7 140 12 9 24 91 1 29 Acquisitions Unused and Transferred 1 January and Charged in reversed in Revisions and to from Exchange 31 December Non-current provisions for other 2008 disposals the year the year additions current adjustments 2008 liabilities and charges m m m m m m m m i Restructuring costs 324 2 34 ii Decommissioning costs 511 47 17 181 7 6 769 iv Renegotiation provisions 7 20 27 v Other 316 1 1 35 581 47 27 1 181 24 6 865 2008 2007 Financial and non-financial liabilities within provisions for other Current Non-current Current Non-current m m m m liabilities and charges Financial liabilities: i Restructuring costs 20 34 35 31 iv Renegotiation provisions 27 84 7 v Other 7 18 75 27 79 126 43 Non-financial liabilities: i Restructuring costs 2 21 ii Decommissioning costs 769 3 511 iii Sales contract loss provision 2 v Other 17 726 2 786 14 538 29 865 140 581 Maturity analysis for financial liabilities within provisions for other 2008 2007 liabilities and charges on an undiscounted basis m m Within one year 27 126 Between one and two years 19 13 Between two and five years 53 16 After five years 7 16 106 171 i The restructuring provisions relate to significant restructuring programmes undertaken to achieve the Groups stated cost reduction targets.
Included within the provision are costs related to surplus properties of 50 million 2007: 51 million estimated with reference to the expected cost to be incurred to the point of lease termination, including costs for dilapidations and sub-letting.
The provisions are expected to be utilised between 2009 and 2022. ii Provision has been made for the estimated net present cost of decommissioning gas production and storage facilities at the end of their useful lives.
The estimate has been based on proven and probable reserves, price levels and technology at the balance sheet date.
The timing of decommissioning payments is dependent on the lives of the facilities but is anticipated to occur between 2010 and 2062, with the substantial majority of the provision being utilised between 2015 and 2030.
The charge to income includes 20 million of notional interest 2007: 13 million.
iii The sales contract loss provision relates to the acquisition of a portfolio of gas customers by the Group.
Certain of the contracts acquired were identified as being out-of-the-money at the date of acquisition, and the sales contract loss provision was established in respect of them.
iv In previous years, the Group renegotiated certain long-term take-or-pay contracts which would have resulted in commitments to pay for gas that would be in excess of requirements and or at prices above likely market rates.
The provision represents the net present cost of estimated payments due to suppliers as consideration for the renegotiations, most of which was settled in 2008, based on the reserves in a group of third-party fields.
The charge for the year includes nil of notional interest 2007: 6 million.
v Other provisions include outstanding litigation for a number of items none of which are individually significant and provision for National Insurance payable in respect of Long Term Incentive Scheme liabilities.
The National Insurance provision was based on a share price of 266.00 pence at 31 December 2008 2007: 319.21 pence after adjusting for the bonus element of the Rights Issue and is expected to be utilised between 2009 and 2014.
FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties under no compulsion to act.
The Group has documented internal policies for determining fair value, including methodologies used to establish valuation adjustments required for credit risk.
The fair values of the Groups financial instruments, together with the carrying amounts included in the Balance Sheet are analysed as follows: 2008 2007 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Financial assets Notes m m m m Loans and receivables: Trade and other receivables, net of provisions 20 5,114 5,114 3,238 3,238 Cash and cash equivalents 23 2,939 2,939 1,130 1,130 8,053 8,053 4,368 4,368 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit and loss: Derivative financial instruments 21 1,915 1,915 986 986 Available-for-sale financial assets: Debt 89 89 79 79 Equity 9 9 10 10 98 98 89 89 2008 2007 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Notes m m m m Financial liabilities Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost: Trade and other payables 24 3,798 3,798 3,107 3,107 Bank overdrafts, loans and other borrowings Bank overdrafts and loans 25 481 535 347 338 Bonds 25 2,666 2,660 1,250 1,246 Commercial paper 4 4 Obligations under finance leases 25 397 397 417 417 Provisions 27 106 106 169 169 7,452 7,500 5,290 5,277 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss: Derivative financial instruments 21 4,089 4,089 1,415 1,415 Financial instruments valued at their carrying values Due to their nature and or short-term maturity, the fair values of trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables and provisions are estimated to approximate their carrying values.
Available-for-sale financial assets The fair values of available-for-sale financial assets are based on quoted market prices, when available.
If quoted market prices are not available, fair values are estimated using observable market data.
Bank overdrafts, loans and other borrowings The fair values of bonds are based on quoted market prices.
The fair values of bank loans have been determined by discounting cash flows with reference to relevant market rates of interest.
The fair values of overdrafts and commercial paper are assumed to equal their book values due to the short-term nature of these amounts.
The fair values of obligations under finance leases have been determined by discounting contractual cash flows with reference to the Groups cost of borrowing.
indd 108 1 10 3 09 15:48:13 0 3 09 15:48:13 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 28.
FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Derivative financial instruments and energy contracts designated at fair value through profit and loss The fair values of foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives are determined by reference to closing market rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair values of energy derivatives are determined using valuation techniques based in part on observable market data and in part on internal estimates not currently supported by observable market data.
The extent to which fair values of energy derivatives are based on observable market data is determined by the extent to which the market for the underlying commodity is judged to be active.
The Group has judged each of the markets in which it operates as active for the purposes of accounting as follows: Active period of markets Gas Power Coal Emissions Oil UK years 2 2 3 2-4 3 North America years 5 5 n a n a n a Europe years n a Up to 5 n a n a n a The fair values of energy contracts within the scope of IAS 39 that settle inside the active period of the market are based on quoted market prices and expected volumes, discounted at a rate of 3% 2007: 6%.
The fair values of derivative financial instruments in North America and Europe are based primarily on quoted market prices.
In the UK, however, certain energy contracts extend beyond the active period of the market.
The fair values of energy contracts that extend beyond the active period of the market are determined by reference in part to published price quotations in active markets and in part by using valuation techniques based on commodity prices derived using assumptions that are based on internal market expectations and expected volumes, discounted using a discount rate of 3% 2007: 5%.
The net fair value of energy contracts recorded in the Financial Statements determined using valuation techniques based on nonobservable market variables at 31 December 2008 is a 272 million liability 2007: 322 million liability.
The total change in fair value of energy contracts estimated using valuation techniques based on variables not supportable by market prices that was recognised in the Income Statement during the year ended 31 December 2008 amounted to a gain of 17 million 2007: loss of 100 million.
While internal market forecasts outside the active period of the market reasonably reflect all factors that market participants would consider in setting a price, these expectations are not currently supportable by active forward market quotes.
The fair values of these contracts would change significantly if the assumptions in respect of gas, power, coal, emissions or oil prices were changed to reasonably possible alternatives.
The impacts of reasonably possible changes to assumed gas, power, emissions, coal and oil prices on the net fair value of the Groups derivative financial instruments determined using valuation models based on non-observable market data are as follows: 2008 2007 Reasonably Reasonably possible possible change change Energy price in variable in variable UK gas p therm -14 -12 UK power MWh -10 -11 UK coal US$ tonne -25 -15 UK emissions tonne -4 -6 UK oil US$ bbl -15 -14 2008 2007 Increase decrease in fair value m m UK energy prices increase decrease 179 175 85 100 The impacts disclosed above result from changing the assumptions used for fair valuing energy contracts in relation to gas, power, emissions, coal and oil prices to reasonably possible alternative assumptions at the balance sheet date.
The fair value impacts only concern those contracts entered into which are within the scope of IAS 39 and are marked-to-market based on valuation models using assumptions that are not currently observable in an active market.
The sensitivity analysis provided is hypothetical only and should be used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because the Groups actual exposure to market rates is constantly changing as the Groups portfolio of energy contracts changes.
Changes in fair values based on a variation in a market variable cannot be extrapolated because the relationship between the change in market variable and the change in fair value may not be linear.
FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Where the fair value at initial recognition for such contracts differs from the transaction price a day-one gain or loss will arise.
Such gains and losses are deferred and amortised to the Income Statement based on volumes purchased or delivered over the contractual period until such time as observable market data becomes available see note 2 for further detail.
The amount that has yet to be recognised in the Income Statement relating to the difference between the fair value at initial recognition the transaction price and the amount that would have arisen had valuation techniques used for subsequent measurement been applied at initial recognition, less subsequent releases, is as follows: 2008 2007 m m Net deferred losses gains 1 January 166 62 Net losses gains deferred on new transactions 128 103 Recognised in the Income Statement during the period 89 1 31 December 51 166 29.
CALLED UP SHARE CAPITAL 2008 2007 m m Authorised share capital of the Company 14 14 i 7,000,000,000 ordinary shares of 6 p each 2007: 4,455,000,000 ordinary shares of 6 p each 432 275 81 81 100,000 cumulative redeemable preference shares of 1 each Allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company 14 14 5,107,658,569 ordinary shares of 6 81p each 2007: 3,679,980,311 ordinary shares of 6 81p each 315 227 The movement in allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company for the year was as follows: 2008 2007 Number Number 1 January 3,679,980,311 3,662,721,068 ii Rights Issue 1,392,789,173 iii Issued under employee share schemes 34,889,085 17,259,243 31 December 5,107,658,569 3,679,980,311 i At a General Meeting of the Company held on 21 November 2008, the authorised share capital of the Company was increased from 275 million to 432 million by the creation of 2,545,000,000 14 ordinary shares of a nominal value of 6 pence each, forming a single class with the existing ordinary shares.
81 ii On 31 October 2008, the Company announced a Rights Issue, which was approved by shareholders on 21 November 2008, on the basis of three new ordinary shares for every eight ordinary shares 14 held at 160 pence per share, all with a nominal value of 6 pence each.
The Company raised proceeds of approximately 2,164 million, net of issue costs of approximately 65 million.
The last day 81 for acceptance was 12 December 2008 and dealing in new ordinary shares fully paid commenced on the London Stock Exchange on 15 December 2008. iii Ordinary shares were allotted and issued to satisfy the exercise of share options, share incentive schemes, the Direct Energy Employee Share Purchase Plan and the matching element of the Share Incentive Plan as follows: 2008 2007 Number 34,889,085 17,259,243 Nominal value m 2.2 1.1 Consideration m net of issue costs of nil 2007: nil 38 22 The closing price of one Centrica ordinary share on 31 December 2008 was 266.00 pence 2007: 319.21 pence after adjusting for the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
Centrica employee share ownership trusts purchase Centrica ordinary shares from the open market and receive newly issued shares to satisfy future obligations of certain employee share schemes.
During the year, the trusts purchased 1.0 million shares 2007: 0.6 million, received 6.5 million newly allotted shares 2007: 5.3 million and released 4.5 million shares 2007: 5.3 million shares to employees on vesting.
At 31 December 2008, the trusts held 3.6 million shares 2007: 0.6 million shares at a carrying amount of 10 million 2007: 2 million.
Until such time as the Companys own shares held by these trusts vest unconditionally, the amount paid for those shares, or the value they were issued at, are held as treasury shares and are deducted from shareholders equity.
The number of ordinary shares held in trust for both periods presented has been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
Details of the Rights Issue are provided in notes 5 and 30.
indd 110 1 10 3 09 15:48:14 0 3 09 15:48:14 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 30.
RESERVES Attributable to equity holders of the Company Capital Share Share Merger redemption Other Minority Total capital premium reserve reserve reserves Total interest equity m m m m m m m m 1 January 2008 227 685 467 16 1,928 3,323 59 3,382 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 29 29 29 Actuarial losses on pensions note 34 399 399 399 Losses on revaluation of available-for-sale assets 19 19 19 Cash flow hedges: Net fair value losses 318 318 318 Transfers to Income Statement 30 30 30 Transfers to Balance Sheet 1 1 1 Rights Issue 86 2,078 2,164 2,164 Transfer 2,078 2,078 Tax on above items 208 208 208 313 685467163,420 4,901 59 4,960 Loss for the year 145 145 1 144 Employee share schemes: Increase in treasury shares 9 9 9 Share issue 2 44 46 46 Exercise of awards 7 7 7 Value of services provided 40 40 40 Dividends 500 500 500 31 December 2008 315 729 467 16 2,799 4,326 60 4,386 Profit and loss reserve Foreign currency Cash flow Share-based Total Revaluation translation hedging Treasury payments other reserve reserve reserve shares reserve Other reserves Other reserves m m m m m m m 1 January 2008 10 14 51 2 51 1,832 1,928 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 10 19 29 Actuarial losses on pensions note 34 399 399 Losses on revaluation of available-for-sale assets 19 19 Cash flow hedges: Net fair value losses 318 318 Transfers to Income Statement 30 30 Transfers to Balance Sheet 1 1 Rights Issue Transfer 2,078 2,078 Tax on above items 97 111 208 10 24 218 2 51 3,603 3,420 Loss for the year 145 145 Employee share schemes: Increase in treasury shares 9 9 Exercise of awards 1 25 17 7 Value of services provided 40 40 Dividends 500 500 31 December 2008 10 24 218 10 66 2,975 2,799 111 C Centrica p58-144.
RESERVES CONTINUED Attributable to equity holders of the Company Capital Share Share Merger redemption Other Minority Total capital premium reserve reserve reserves Total interest equity m m m m m m m m 1 January 2007 226 657 467 16 219 1,585 57 1,642 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 15 15 15 Exchange differences transferred to Income Statement 4 4 4 Actuarial gains on pensions 284 284 284 Gains on revaluation of availablefor-sale assets 11 1 Cash flow hedges: Net fair value gains 169 169 169 Transfers to Income Statement 382 382 382 Tax on above items 248 248 248 226 657467168182,184 572,241 Profit for the year 1,505 1,505 2 1,507 Employee share schemes: Increase in treasury shares 2 2 2 Share issue 1 28 29 29 Exercise of awards 7 7 7 Value of services provided 31 31 31 Dividends 417 417 417 31 December 2007 227 685 467 16 1,928 3,323 59 3,382 Profit and loss reserve Foreign currency Cash flow Share-based Total Revaluation translation hedging Treasury payments other reserve reserve reserve shares reserve Other reserves m m m m m m m Other reserves 1 January 2007 10 26 326 38 523 219 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 16 1 15 Exchange differences transferred to Income Statement 4 4 Actuarial gains on pensions 284 284 Gains on revaluation of available-for-sale assets 11 Cash flow hedges: Net fair value gains 169 169 Transfers to Income Statement 382 382 Tax on above items 173 75 248 10 14 5138 733818 Profit for the year 1,505 1,505 Employee share schemes: Increase in treasury shares 2 2 Exercise of awards 18 11 7 Value of services provided 31 31 Dividends 417 417 31 December 2007 10 14 51 2 51 1,832 1,928 112 C Centrica p58-144.
indd 112 1 10 3 09 15:48:14 0 3 09 15:48:14 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 30.
RESERVES CONTINUED Merger reserve On 17 February 1997 BG plc formerly British Gas plc demerged certain businesses grouped together under GB Gas Holdings Limited GBGH to Centrica plc.
Prior to demerger, the companies comprising the Centrica businesses were transferred to GBGH, a subsidiary undertaking of BG plc.
Upon demerger, the share capital of GBGH was transferred to Centrica plc and was recorded at the nominal value of shares issued to BG plc shareholders.
In accordance with sections 131 and 133 of the Companies Act 1985, no premium was recorded on the shares issued.
On consolidation, the difference between the nominal value of the Companys shares issued and the amount of share capital and share premium of GBGH at the date of demerger was credited to a merger reserve.
On 15 December 2008, a Rights Issue was completed and 1,392,789,173 new ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of approximately 86 million were issued for cash consideration of 2,164 million, net of issue costs of 65 million.
The Rights Issue was effected through a structure which resulted in a merger reserve arising under section 131 of the Companies Act 1985.
Centrica plc issued shares in exchange for shares in Centrica CB Limited, which subsequently redeemed its no par value redeemable preference shares for cash.
Following the receipt of the cash proceeds through the structure, the excess of the net proceeds received over the nominal value of the share capital issued has been transferred from the merger reserve to other profit and loss reserves.
Capital redemption reserve In accordance with section 170 1 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company has transferred to the capital redemption reserve an amount equal to the nominal value of shares repurchased and subsequently cancelled.
Revaluation reserve During 2005, the revaluation of the Groups existing interest in Centrica SHB Limited to fair value, following the acquisition by the Group of the remaining 40% stake in the company, was recorded as a revaluation reserve adjustment.
Foreign currency translation and net investment hedging reserve The foreign currency translation and net investment hedging reserve comprises exchange translation differences on foreign currency net investments, offset by exchange translation differences on borrowings and derivatives classified as net investment hedges under the requirements of IAS 39.
Exchange gains of 175 million 2007: 48 million on net investments in overseas undertakings have been offset in reserves against exchange losses of 185 million 2007: 32 million on foreign currency borrowings and other instruments used for hedging purposes.
Cash flow hedging reserve The cash flow hedging reserve comprises fair value movements on instruments designated as cash flow hedges under the requirements of IAS 39.
Note 22 provides further detail on cash flow hedging.
2008 2007 Analysis of transfers from cash flow hedging reserve to Income Statement by line item m m Gross profit 30 391 Net interest expense 9 30 382 The maturity analysis of amounts included in the cash flow hedging reserve, which includes fair value gains and losses in relation to commodity, interest rate and currency hedges, is as follows: 2008 2007 m m Within one year 147 17 Between one and five years 79 34 After five years 8 218 51 The maturity profile reflects the timing of expected transfers from the cash flow hedging reserve to the Income Statement as and when the hedged item affects the Income Statement which is, for the most part, on delivery of physical volumes for energy contracts and the accrual of interest for debt contracts.
RESERVES CONTINUED Profit and loss reserve Treasury shares reserve reflects the cost of shares in the Company held in share-based payment plans to meet future obligations to deliver shares to employees on vesting.
Cumulative actuarial gains arising on defined benefit pension schemes recognised in the profit and loss reserve amounted to 324 million 2007: 723 million.
Cumulative losses of 16 million 2007: gains of 3 million on available-for-sale financial assets were included within the profit and loss reserve.
Aggregate tax taken directly to reserves amounted to a credit of 208 million 2007: 248 million charge, of which a credit of 111 million relates to deferred tax arising on actuarial losses on the Groups defined benefit schemes 2007: 75 million charge, and a credit of 97 million relates to deferred tax arising on gains and losses on available-for-sale investments and cash flow hedges 2007: 173 million charge.
The share-based payments reserve reflects the obligation to deliver shares to employees under the Groups share schemes in return for services provided.
MINORITY INTERESTS 2008 2007 m m At 1 January 59 57 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 1 2 At 31 December 60 59 Minority interests at 31 December 2008 relate primarily to a 30% economic interest 2007: 30% held by Lloyds TSB Bank plc in GF Two Limited formerly Goldfish Holdings Limited and its subsidiary, GF One Limited formerly Goldfish Bank Limited.
indd 114 1 10 3 09 15:48:14 0 3 09 15:48:14 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 32.
NOTES TO THE GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT 2008 2007 a Reconciliation of Group operating profit to net cash flow from operating activities m m Continuing operations Group operating profit including share of result of joint ventures and associates 460 2,184 Less share of profits of joint ventures and associates 12 5 Group operating profit before share of profits of joint ventures and associates 448 2,179 Add back deduct : Amortisation and write-down of intangible assets and impairment of goodwill 174 92 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 515 473 Employee share scheme costs 35 29 Profit on sale of businesses 2 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets 7 Movement in provisions 141 66 i Re-measurement of energy contracts 1,369 218 Unrealised foreign exchange gains on operating cash and cash equivalents 3 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 2,397 2,494 Increase decrease in inventories 143 38 ii Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 1,377 181 ii Increase in trade and other payables 425 44 Cash generated from continuing operations 1,302 2,757 Income taxes paid 374 341 Net petroleum revenue tax paid 533 60 Interest received 23 27 Interest paid 47 3 Payments relating to exceptional charges 74 90 Net cash flow from continuing operating activities 297 2,290 Discontinued operations Group operating profit before share of joint ventures and associates 266 Add back deduct : Amortisation of intangible assets 1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 21 Profit on disposal of subsidiary 227 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets 5 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 66 Decrease in receivables 1 Net cash flow from discontinued operating activities 67 Net cash flow from operating activities 297 2,357 i Adds back deducts unrealised losses profits arising from re-measurement of energy contracts, including those related to proprietary trading activities.
ii Includes net outflow of 556 million of cash collateral in 2008 2007: inflow of 2 million.
NOTES TO THE GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT CONTINUED 2008 2007 m m b Net debt i Current borrowings note 25 295 191 Non-current borrowings note 25 3,218 1,793 Less: i Cash and cash equivalents 2,904 1,100 Current available-for-sale financial assets 63 50 Non-current available-for-sale financial assets 35 39 511 795 i Overdrafts of 35 million 2007: 30 million are excluded from current borrowings and are included net within cash and cash equivalents.
2008 2007 c Reconciliation of net increase in cash and cash equivalents to movement in net debt m m Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1,778 505 Add back deduct : Net purchase of available-for-sale financial assets 22 2 Cash inflow from additional debt 1,513 256 Cash outflow from payment of capital element of finance leases 20 383 Cash outflow from repayment of other debt 175 107 482 741 Revaluation of: Available-for-sale financial assets 19 1 Loans and other borrowings 82 6 381 736 Increase decrease in interest payable on loans and other borrowings 9 11 Acquisitions 19 Exchange adjustments 72 17 Other non-cash movements 3 2 Movement in net debt 284 732 Net debt at 1 January 795 1,527 Net debt at end of period 511 795 North d Relationship between current tax charge UK America Other 2008 2007 m m m m m and taxes paid Current tax charge: Corporation tax charge 383 49 23 409 363 Petroleum revenue tax 517 517 200 900 49 23 926 563 Taxes paid: Corporation tax charge 343 35 4 374 341 Petroleum revenue tax 533 533 60 876 35 4 907 401 Differences between current tax charged and taxes paid arose principally due to the following factors: x UK corporation tax is paid, based on estimated profits, partly during the year and partly in the following year.
Fluctuations in profits from year to year may therefore give rise to divergence between the charge for the current year and taxes paid: and x Petroleum revenue tax payments are based on income realised in the preceding period, with subsequent adjustments to reflect actual profits.
Variations in production from period to period may therefore lead to temporary differences between tax charged and tax paid.
indd 116 1 10 3 09 15:48:14 0 3 09 15:48:14 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 33.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Employee share schemes are designed to encourage participants to align their objectives with those of shareholders.
Centrica operates eight main employee share schemes: the Deferred and Matching Share Scheme DMSS, the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS, the Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS, Sharesave, the Share Award Scheme SAS, the Restricted Share Scheme RSS, the Share Incentive Plan SIP and the Direct Energy Employee Share Purchase Plan ESPP.
On 15 December 2008 the Company raised proceeds of 2,164 million, net of issue costs of 65 million, through a Rights Issue as explained in notes 5, 29 and 30.
The number of shares allocated to employees under the Groups share schemes has been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
The terms of the Groups employee share schemes were adjusted such that participants of the various plans were no better or worse off as a result of the Rights Issue.
Consequently, no additional expense was or will be recognised as a result of changes to the Groups employee share schemes.
Details of the adjustments made to the terms of the Groups employee share schemes as a result of the Rights Issue are provided in sections b and c below.
a Summary of share-based payment plans and movements in the number of shares and options outstanding DMSS Awards under the DMSS are generally reserved for employees within the senior executive group.
The scheme operates over a four-year vesting period.
Under normal conditions the grant date of the scheme is the first day of each bonus year.
This is followed by a vesting period of four years, being the bonus year plus a three-year performance period.
The fair value of the award reflects the market value of the shares at the grant date.
The scheme comprises three separate elements: i Deferred shares The scheme requires participants to defer 20% of their annual pre-tax bonus into the scheme.
The shares are held in trust over the three-year performance period, during which time they cannot be withdrawn.
An employee who leaves prior to the vesting date will forfeit their right to the shares except where permitted by the rules of the scheme.
All shares held in trust will be eligible to receive dividends.
The number of shares deferred is estimated from the participants maximum bonus and the likelihood of bonus payout in the bonus year.
Subsequent revisions are made based on the actual bonus paid in the year.
ii Investment shares The scheme allows participants to elect to invest an additional amount of their annual bonus into the scheme up to a maximum of 50% of their total potential after-tax bonus for the year.
This 50% limit includes the amount automatically deferred each year pre-tax.
The number of shares invested is estimated based on the maximum bonus in year one.
The shares may be funded directly from the employee or through a release of the employees LTIS shares and thus the shares do not attract an IFRS 2 charge.
Subsequent to the bonus year, the shares are held in trust over the three-year performance period and will vest unconditionally.
Participants can withdraw the investment shares unconditionally at any point throughout the vesting period, although the related matching shares will be forfeited.
The shares are eligible to receive dividends.
iii Matching shares Deferred and investment shares will be matched with conditional matching shares, which will be released upon the achievement, over a three-year performance period, of three-year cumulative Group economic profit performance targets.
Group economic profit is calculated by taking Group operating profit before exceptional items and certain re-measurements after tax and subtracting a charge for capital employed based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
The number of matching shares that will vest will be determined on a straight-line basis from a zero match for no growth in economic profit up to a two-times match for growth of 25% or more.
The number of investment matching shares, subject to the performance conditions, is grossed up to reflect the impact of tax and National Insurance.
The number of matching shares released following the satisfaction of the performance conditions will be increased to reflect the dividends that would have been paid during the three-year performance period.
The likelihood of achieving the performance conditions is taken into account in calculating the number of awards expected to vest.
Estimates are made in year one and revised in subsequent years.
The number of shares originally granted and fair value allocated are estimated on the grant date and then adjusted following the announcement of the actual annual performance bonus and subsequent investment by participants.
Details of the fair values of awards granted and related assumptions are included in section c below.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED A reconciliation of movements in allocations of deferred and matching shares actually made is shown below: 2008 2007 Number i Number i Outstanding at start of period 3,393,500 Granted 3,425,689 3,453,802 Forfeited 254,794 60,302 Outstanding at end of period 6,564,395 3,393,500 Vested at end of period i Movements in allocations prior to 14 November 2008 have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
There were no shares released during the period or in 2007.
ESOS Under the ESOS, the Board may grant options over shares in Centrica plc to employees of the Group.
Options are granted with a fixed exercise price equal to the market price of the shares at the legal date of grant which approximates, or is the same as, the grant date for accounting purposes.
Awards under the ESOS are generally reserved for employees within the senior executive group.
Options granted under the ESOS will become exercisable in full on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to the growth in earnings per share over that period exceeding RPI growth by 18 percent or more.
The number of options becoming exercisable is determined on a straight-line basis between 40% and 100% if EPS growth exceeds RPI growth by between nine and 18 percent.
Options granted up to March 2004 permitted retesting of EPS growth annually for a further two years.
The exercise of options is subject to continued employment within the Group except where permitted by the rules of the scheme.
No performance conditions were included in the fair value calculations.
Early exercise has been taken into account by estimating the expected life of the options.
Details of the fair values of awards granted and related assumptions are included in section b below.
A reconciliation of option movements is as follows: 2008 2007 Weighted average Weighted average Number i exercise price i Number i exercise price i Outstanding at start of period 21,953,085 2.07 27,062,070 2.07 ii Granted 336,012 2.56 Exercised 3,199,991 1.94 2,880,618 1.97 Forfeited 1,102,971 2.25 2,228,367 2.20 Outstanding at end of period 17,986,135 2.09 21,953,085 2.07 Exercisable at end of period 13,031,276 1.92 9,879,752 1.81 i Movements in allocations prior to 14 November 2008 and the corresponding weighted average exercise price have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
Details of the Rights Issue are provided in notes 5, 29 and 30. ii Options granted in 2008 relate to a special grant of options that vested and become exercisable immediately.
For options exercised during the period, the weighted average share price adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue was 2.81 2007: 3.44.
indd 118 1 10 3 09 15:48:15 0 3 09 15:48:15 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 33.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED LTIS Under the LTIS, allocations of shares in Centrica plc are generally reserved for employees at senior management level.
For awards made up to 2005, the number of shares to be released to participants is calculated subject to the Companys total shareholder return TSR during the three years following the grant date, compared with the TSR of other shares in the FTSE 100 Index over the same period.
The number of shares released is reduced on a sliding scale if Centricas TSR is ranked between 50th and 25th.
Shares are released to participants immediately following the end of the period in which TSR performance is assessed, however release of shares is subject to continued employment within the Group at the date of release except where permitted by the rules of the scheme.
Allocations were valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Performance conditions were included in the fair value calculations, through the use of a Monte Carlo simulation model.
For awards made from 2006, the vesting of only half of each award is made on the basis of TSR performance.
For this half of the award, the calculation of TSR performance as compared with the TSR of other FTSE 100 Index shares is consistent with awards made to the end of 2005, except that allocations are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The number of shares released is determined on a straight-line basis between 25% and 100% if Centricas TSR is ranked between 50th and 20th.
The vesting of the remaining half of awards made since 2006 is dependent on earnings per share EPS growth.
This is considered a non-market condition under IFRS 2.
For shares that vest on awards made from 2006 for both TSR and EPS portions, additional shares are awarded or a cash payment is made to reflect dividends that would have been paid on the allocations during the performance period.
The fair value of the awards is therefore considered to be the market value at the grant date.
A reconciliation of movements in allocations is as follows: 2008 2007 Number i Number i Outstanding at start of period 22,272,975 23,580,460 Granted 13,026,508 7,266,456 Released 3,882,647 5,230,265 Forfeited performance related 2,649,148 64,390 Forfeited non-performance related 2,270,544 3,279,286 Outstanding at end of period 26,497,144 22,272,975 Vested at end of period 264,143 39,499 i Movements in allocations prior to 14 November 2008 have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
For shares released during the period, the weighted average share price adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue was 2.72 2007: 3.48.
Sharesave Under Sharesave, the Board may grant options over shares in Centrica plc to all UK-based employees of the Group.
To date, the Board has approved the grant of options with a fixed exercise price equal to 80% of the average market price of the shares for the three days prior to invitation which is three to four weeks prior to the grant date.
Employees pay a fixed amount from salary into a savings account each month, and may elect to save over three or five years.
At the end of the savings period, employees have six months in which to exercise their options using the funds saved.
If employees decide not to exercise their options, they may withdraw the funds saved, and the options expire.
Exercise of options is subject to continued employment within the Group except where permitted by rules of the scheme.
A reconciliation of movements in allocations is as follows: 2008 2007 Weighted average Weighted average Number i exercise price i Number i exercise price i Outstanding at start of period 57,663,048 1.58 62,120,635 1.41 Granted 15,823,636 2.27 10,477,514 2.59 Exercised 30,637,590 1.08 10,823,787 1.46 Forfeited 4,603,041 1.76 4,105,305 1.86 Expired 59,488 1.28 6,009 1.58 Outstanding at end of period 38,186,565 2.20 57,663,048 1.58 Exercisable at end of period 144,015 1.13 75,456 1.61 i Movements in allocations prior to 14 November 2008 and the corresponding weighted average exercise price have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
For options exercised during the period, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue was 2.64 2007: 3.36.
SAS Under the SAS, allocations of shares in Centrica plc are made to selected employees at middle management levels, based on recommendation by the Chief Executive and the Group Human Resources Director.
There is no contractual eligibility for SAS and each years award is made independently from previous awards.
Allocations are subject to no performance conditions and vest unconditionally subject to continued employment within the Group except where permitted by the rules of the scheme in two stages half of the award vesting after two years, the other half vesting after three years.
On vesting, additional shares are awarded or a cash payment is made to reflect dividends that would have been paid on the allocations during the vesting period.
The fair value is therefore considered to be the market value at date of grant.
A reconciliation of movements in the allocations is as follows: 2008 2007 Number i Number i Outstanding at start of period 2,768,440 1,645,338 Granted 1,787,004 1,314,198 Released 685,573 25,593 Forfeited 263,338 165,503 Outstanding at end of period 3,606,533 2,768,440 Vested at end of period i Movements in allocations prior to 14 November 2008 have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
For shares released during the period, the weighted average share price at the date of release adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue was 2.71 2007: 3.34.
RSS Awards under the RSS are reserved for certain selected key employees at senior management levels, based on recommendation by the Chief Executive and the Group Human Resources Director.
Neither the Executive Directors nor the next tier of executive management are eligible to participate.
There is no contractual eligibility for RSS and each years award is made independently from previous awards.
Allocations are subject to no performance conditions and vest unconditionally subject to continued employment within the Group except where permitted by the rules of the scheme in one or two stages dependent on the individual awards.
indd 120 1 10 3 09 15:48:15 0 3 09 15:48:15 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 33.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED A reconciliation of movements in the allocations is as follows: 2008 2007 Number i Number i Outstanding at start of period 408,597 Granted 32,795 408,597 Released 40,684 Outstanding at end of period 400,708 408,597 Vested at end of period i Movements in allocations prior to 14 November 2008 have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
For shares released during the period, the weighted average share price at the date of release adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue was 2.69 2007: nil.
SIP Under SIP, employees in the UK may purchase partnership shares through monthly salary deductions.
The Company then awards one matching share for every two purchased, up to a maximum of 20 matching shares per employee per month since increased to 22 matching shares from 2009 to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
Both partnership shares and matching shares are held in a trust.
Partnership shares may be withdrawn at any time, but matching shares are forfeited if the related partnership shares are withdrawn within three years from the original purchase date.
Matching shares vest unconditionally for employees after being held for three years in the trust.
Vesting of matching shares is also subject to continued employment within the Group except where permitted by the rules of the scheme.
Matching shares are valued at the market price at the grant date.
A reconciliation of matching shares held in trust is as follows: 2008 2007 Number i Number i Unvested at start of period 2,873,180 2,642,434 Granted 730,122 669,188 Released 182,117 308,529 Forfeited 133,070 129,913 Unvested at end of period 3,288,115 2,873,180 i Movements in allocations prior to 14 November 2008 have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
For shares released during the period, the weighted average share price at the date of release adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue was 2.77 2007: 3.33.
ESPP Under the ESPP, employees in North America may purchase partnership shares through salary deductions.
The Company then awards one matching share for every two shares purchased.
Partnership shares may be withdrawn at any time, but the entitlement to matching shares is forfeited if the related partnership shares are withdrawn within two years from the original purchase date.
Matching shares vest unconditionally for employees after being held for two years.
A reconciliation of matching shares granted is shown below: 2008 2007 Number i Number i Unvested at start of period 383,230 386,776 Granted 287,300 209,959 Released 151,024 175,687 Forfeited 43,418 37,818 Unvested at end of period 476,088 383,230 i Movements in allocations prior to 14 November 2008 have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
For shares released during the period, the weighted average share price at the date of release adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue was 2.75 2007: 3.30.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED b Fair values and associated details of options granted Sharesave ESOS 2008 2007 2008 2007 Number of options originally granted 14,168,889 9,326,314 299,130 i Number of options originally granted adjusted for Rights Issue 15,823,636 10,477,514 336,012 Weighted average fair value at grant date 0.73 1.19 0.68 i Weighted average fair value at grant date adjusted for Rights Issue 0.65 1.06 0.60 Weighted average share price at grant date 3.05 3.91 3.27 i Weighted average share price at grant date adjusted for Rights Issue 2.71 3.48 2.91 Weighted average exercise price at grant date 2.55 2.91 2.88 i Weighted average exercise price adjusted for Rights Issue 2.27 2.59 2.56 ii Expected volatility 23% 23% 23% Contractual option life 4.4 years 4.2 years 10 years Expected life 4.1 years 3.7 years 5 years Vesting period 4.1 years 3.7 years Expected dividend yield 3.50% 3.70% 4.20% iii Risk-free interest rate 4.08% 5.33% 4.30% Expected forfeitures 32% 30% 0% c Fair values and associated details of shares granted 2008 DMSS LTIS SAS RSS SIP ESPP Number of equity instruments at grant date 3,030,836 11,595,241 1,590,660 32,795 691,019 274,217 Number of equity instruments at grant date adjusted for i Rights Issue 3,404,949 13,026,508 1,787,004 32,795 730,122 287,300 Weighted average fair value at grant date 2.95 2.24 3.05 2.47 3.02 3.33 Weighted average fair value at grant date adjusted for i Rights Issue 2.63 2.00 2.71 2.47 2.69 2.96 Expected performance lapses 0% n a n a n a n a n a Expected dividend yield n a n a n a n a n a n a Vesting period 4 years 3 years 2.5 years 3 years 3 years 2 years ii Expected volatility n a 22% n a n a n a n a Expected forfeitures 25% 25% 20% 25% 0% 20% iii Risk-free rate n a 4.05% n a n a n a n a Average volatility of FTSE 100 n a 27% n a n a n a n a iv Average cross-correlation of FTSE 100 n a 30% n a n a n a n a 2007 DMSS LTIS SAS RSS SIP ESPP Number of equity instruments at grant date 3,049,297 6,468,066 1,169,803 363,703 633,348 200,398 Number of equity instruments at grant date adjusted for i Rights Issue 3,425,689 7,266,456 1,314,198 408,597 669,188 209,959 Weighted average fair value at grant date 2.93 3.08 3.91 3.86 3.72 3.69 Weighted average fair value at grant date adjusted for i Rights Issue 2.612.743.483.44 3.313.28 Expected performance lapses 0% n a n a n a n a n a Expected dividend yield n a n a n a n a n a n a Vesting period 4 years 3 years 2.5 years 2.4 years 3 years 2 years ii Expected volatility n a21%n an a n an a Expected forfeitures 25% 20% 20% 19% 0% 20% iii Risk-free rate n a 5.40% n a n a n a n a Average volatility of FTSE 100 n a 30% n a n a n a n a iv Average cross-correlation of FTSE 100 n a20%n an a n an a i Adjusted to take account of the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
Details of the Rights Issue are provided in notes 5, 29 and 30. ii The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years.
iii The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the expected option life.
iv The cross-correlation of the FTSE 100 has been obtained from a model which calculates the correlation between Centricas historical share price and each of the FTSE 100 over the period commensurate with the performance period of the awards.
indd 122 1 10 3 09 15:48:15 0 3 09 15:48:15 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 34.
PENSIONS Pension schemes A substantial majority of the Groups UK employees at 31 December 2008 were members of one of the three main schemes: the Centrica Pension Scheme, the Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme and the Centrica Management Pension Scheme together the approved pension schemes.
The Centrica Pension Scheme final salary section and the Centrica Management Pension Scheme a final salary scheme were closed to new members from 1 April 2003.
The Centrica Pension Scheme also has a career average salary section which was closed to new members with effect from 1 July 2008 and replaced by a defined contribution section which is open to new members.
The Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme final salary section was closed to new members from 1 April 2006, and a career average salary section was added to the scheme at that date.
These schemes are defined benefit schemes and are taxapproved funded arrangements.
They are subject to independent valuations at least every three years, on the basis of which the qualified actuary certifies the rate of employer contributions which, together with the specified contributions payable by the employees and proceeds from the schemes assets, are expected to be sufficient to fund the benefits payable under the schemes.
The Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme is an unfunded arrangement which provides benefits to certain employees whose benefits under the main schemes would otherwise be limited by the earnings cap.
The Group also has a commitment to provide certain pension and post-retirement benefits to employees of Direct Energy Marketing Limited Canada under a defined benefit scheme.
The latest full actuarial valuations were carried out at the following dates: the approved pension schemes at 31 March 2006, the Unapproved Pension Scheme at 6 April 2008 and the Direct Energy Marketing Limited pension plan at 14 June 2008.
These have been updated to 31 December 2008 for the purposes of meeting the requirements of IAS 19.
Investments have been valued, for this purpose, at market value.
Governance The UK schemes are managed by trustee companies where boards consist of both company nominated and member nominated directors.
Each UK scheme holds units in the Centrica Combined Common Investment Fund CCCIF, which holds the combined assets of the participating schemes.
The method of allocation of units is set out in the Trust Deed of the CCCIF.
The trustee of the CCCIF is a company, Centrica Combined Common Investment Fund Limited CCCIF Limited which was incorporated on 23 September 2002.
The trustee of the CCCIF may be appointed or removed by the participant schemes.
The board of CCCIF Limited comprises six directors, of which three are appointed by Centrica plc including the chairman and one independent director and a director is appointed by each of the participating schemes.
No direct investments are made in securities issued by Centrica plc or any of its subsidiaries, property leased to or owned by Centrica plc or any of its subsidiaries or securities of any fund manager or any of their associated companies.
Under the terms of the Pensions Act 2004, the Company and each trustee board must agree the funding rate for its defined benefit pension scheme and a recovery plan to fund any deficit against the scheme specific statutory funding objective.
This approach was first adopted for the triennial valuations completed at 31 March 2006 and will again be reflected in the valuations due to be completed at 31 March 2009.
In addition, the Group has a commitment to provide contributions to defined contribution schemes for certain employees in the UK and North America who are not members of one of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes.
31 December 31 December 2008 2007 Major assumptions used for the actuarial valuation % % Rate of increase in employee earnings 4.30 4.40 Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions 3.30 3.40 Discount rate 6.70 5.80 Inflation assumption 3.30 3.40 The assumptions relating to longevity underlying the pension liabilities at the balance sheet date have been based on a combination of standard actuarial mortality tables, scheme experience and other relevant data, and include a medium cohort allowance for future improvements in longevity, as published by the Institute of Actuaries.
The assumptions are equivalent to future longevity for members in normal health approximately as follows: 2008 2007 Male Female Male Female Life expectancy at age 65 for a member: Years Years Years Years Currently aged 65 20.4 21.8 20.2 21.8 Currently aged 45 21.6 22.9 21.4 22.9 At 31 March 2006, the date of the most recent actuarial review, the schemes had approximately 31,900 members and beneficiaries 20,850 male and 11,050 female.
The other demographic assumptions have been set having regard to the latest trends in scheme experience and other relevant data.
The assumptions are reviewed and updated as necessary as part of the periodic actuarial valuation of the pension schemes.
PENSIONS CONTINUED 2008 2007 Indicative Indicative effect on effect on Increase scheme Increase scheme decrease in liabilities decrease in liabilities Impact of changing material assumptions assumption % assumption % Rate of increase in employee earnings 0.25% -2 0.25% -2 Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions 0.25% -4 0.25% -4 Discount rate 0.25% - 6 0.25% - 6 Inflation assumption 0.25% -6 0.25% -6 Longevity assumption 1 year -2 1 year -2 The expected rate of return and market value of the assets and the present value of the liabilities in the schemes at 31 December were: 2008 2007 Expected rate Expected rate of return of return per annum Valuation per annum Valuation % m % m UK equities 8.5 884 8.1 1,549 Non-UK equities 8.5 996 8.1 931 Fixed-interest bonds 6.3 404 5.8 412 Index-linked bonds 4.3 258 4.5 351 Property 7.2 55 6.8 50 Cash and other assets 4.1 45 5.4 34 Total fair value of plan assets 7.7 2,642 7.4 3,327 Present value of defined benefit obligation 2,755 3,230 Net liability asset recognised in the Balance Sheet 113 97 Associated deferred tax asset liability recognised in the Balance Sheet 30 28 Net pension liability asset 83 69 Net liability asset recognised in the Balance Sheet comprises: Surpluses 73 152 Deficits 186 55 113 97 The overall expected rate of return on assets is a weighted average based on the actual plan assets held and the respective expected returns on separate asset classes less costs of administering the plan and taxes paid by the plan itself.
The returns on separate asset classes were derived as follows: the expected rate of return on equities is based on the expected median return over a ten-year period, as calculated by the independent company actuary.
The median return over a longer period than ten years was not expected to be materially dissimilar.
The expected rate of return on bonds was measured directly from actual market yields for UK gilts and corporate bond stocks.
The rate above takes into account the actual mixture of UK gilts, UK corporate bonds and overseas bonds held at the balance sheet date.
The expected rate of return on property takes into account both capital growth and allowance for expenses, rental growth and depreciation.
The expected rate of return on cash is comparable to current bank interest rates.
Included within the schemes liabilities above are 24 million 2007: 31 million relating to unfunded pension arrangements.
Included within non-current available-for-sale financial assets are 26 million 2007: 30 million of investments, held by the Law Debenture Trust on behalf of the Company, as security in respect of the Centrica Unapproved Pension Scheme.
The Company has agreed with the trustees of the Centrica Pension Scheme and the Centrica Management Pension Scheme that it will provide collateral equal to the 31 December IAS 19 deficits two months after the relevant financial year or make additional contributions.
At 31 December 2008, the IAS 19 net deficit on these two schemes totalled 94 million.
The agreements provide that a charge over assets or letters of credit from a bank with a minimum credit rating of AA will be acceptable collateral for the trustees.
indd 124 1 10 3 09 15:48:15 0 3 09 15:48:15 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 34.
PENSIONS CONTINUED 2008 2007 Analysis of the amount charged to operating profit m m Current service cost 106 127 Past service credit 3 Loss on curtailment 6 Net charge to operating profit 109 127 2008 2007 Analysis of the amount credited to notional interest m m Expected return on pension scheme assets 249 221 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 190 166 Net credit to notional interest income 59 55 Analysis of the actuarial loss gain recognised in the Statement 2008 2007 of Recognised Income and Expense m m Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 1,121 38 Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities 16 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the schemes liabilities 722 338 Actuarial loss gain to be recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense before adjustment for tax 399 284 Cumulative actuarial gains recognised in reserves at 1 January 723 439 Cumulative actuarial gains recognised in reserves at 31 December 324 723 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Five year history of deficit surplus m m m m m Plan assets 2,642 3,327 2,988 2,570 2,041 Defined benefit obligation 2,755 3,230 3,284 3,390 2,760 Deficit surplus 113 97 296 820 719 Five year history of experience gains and losses 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Difference between the expected and actual return on scheme assets: Amount m 1,121 38 95 307 64 Percentage of scheme assets 42.4% 1.1% 3.2% 11.9% 3.1% Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities: Amount m 16 145 21 134 Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 0.5% 4.4% 0.6% 4.9% Total actuarial loss gain recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense: Amount m 399 284 475 126 90 Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 14.5% 8.8% 14.5% 3.7% 3.3% 2008 2007 Movement in the defined benefit obligation during the year m m 1 January 3,230 3,284 Current service cost 106 127 Past service credit 3 Loss on curtailment 6 36 Interest on scheme liabilities 190 166 Plan participants contributions 26 25 Benefits paid from schemes 79 87 Benefits paid by company 1 1 Actuarial gain 722 322 Acquisitions 2 Exchange adjustments 2 31 December 2,755 3,230 125 C Centrica p58-144.
PENSIONS CONTINUED 2008 2007 m m Movement in plan assets during the year 1 January 3,327 2,988 Movements in the year: Expected return on scheme assets 249 221 Actuarial loss 1,121 38 i Employer contributions 243 218 Plan participants contributions 26 25 Benefits paid from schemes 79 87 Pension Protection Fund Levy paid 3 31 December 2,642 3,327 i Includes 58 million 2007: 42 million related to exceptional charges recorded in prior years.
Agreed future employer contribution rates pensionable salary and % of pensionable salary 2008 2008 for the three main defined benefit schemes m % Centrica Pension Scheme Final salary section 7 22.4 Centrica Pension Scheme CRIS section 92 10.9 Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme Final salary section 170 23.0 Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme CERIS section 48 12.5 Centrica Management Pension Scheme 70 22.6 Centrica Management Pension Scheme 2008 section 124 20.4 35. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS During the year, the Group acquired 100% of the outstanding common shares of Rockyview Energy Inc. Rockyview Energy, 100% of the membership interests of Strategic Energy LLC Strategic Energy, a subsidiary of Great Plains Energy Inc. 100% of the Canadian assets of TransGlobe Energy Corp. TransGlobe Energy, 100% of the share capital of Caythorpe Gas Storage Ltd Caythorpe and interests in a number of non-operated gas and oil assets in Norway Heimdal assets.
Other smaller acquisitions are described in section f. The purchase method of accounting was adopted in all cases.
The assets and liabilities acquired and their fair values are shown below.
The residual excess of cash consideration over the net assets acquired on each acquisition is recognised as goodwill in the Financial Statements.
Unless otherwise stated, the fair values disclosed are provisional because the Directors have not yet reached a final determination on all aspects of the fair value exercise.
a Rockyview Energy On 14 January 2008 the Group acquired 88.4% of the outstanding common shares of publicly traded oil and gas company Rockyview Energy for cash consideration of C$70 million 35 million and the remaining 11.6% of the outstanding common shares of Rockyview Energy by 19 February 2008 in a series of transactions for additional cash consideration of C$9 million 5 million.
In addition, borrowings with a fair value of C$38 million 19 million as assumed by the Group as part of the acquisition have been reflected in the opening balance sheet of the acquiree.
The acquired business contributed a profit after tax of 7 million to the Group for the period from 14 January 2008 to 31 December 2008.
The book values of the assets and liabilities have been adjusted to align with the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired.
The adjustments to recognise other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment at fair value mainly relate to the acquired exploration and evaluation assets, and the producing oil and gas field assets.
Other adjustments were made in respect of the recognition of decommissioning provisions at fair value and deferred tax relating to the fair value adjustments.
During the year, the Directors reached a final determination on all aspects of the fair value exercise.
No material adjustments have been made to the fair values disclosed in the 2008 interim Financial Statements.
b TransGlobe Energy On 1 May 2008 the Group acquired 100% of the assets of TransGlobe Energy for cash consideration of C$51 million 26 million.
TransGlobe Energy is a publicly-traded oil and gas producer based in Calgary, Canada.
The acquired business contributed a profit after tax of 1 million to the Group for the period from 1 May 2008 to 31 December 2008.
Adjustments have been made to property, plant and equipment and to other intangible assets to recognise the producing oil and gas field assets and the exploration and evaluation assets at their respective fair values.
indd 126 1 10 3 09 15:48:16 0 3 09 15:48:16 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 35. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED c Strategic Energy On 2 June 2008 the Group acquired 100% of the membership interests of Strategic Energy, a subsidiary of Great Plains Energy Inc. for cash consideration of US$309 million 157 million.
Strategic Energy is a US electricity supplier serving non-residential customers in eleven states within the US.
The acquired business contributed a profit after tax of 9 million to the Group for the period from 2 June 2008 to 31 December 2008.
Adjustments have been made in respect of other intangible assets, primarily to recognise contractual customer relationships and the acquired Strategic Energy brand, to trade and other payables in order to recognise acquired customer contracts priced below the market rate at the date of acquisition and to trade and other receivables in order to recognise acquired wholesale energy contracts at fair value.
Goodwill of 77 million has arisen principally in relation to expected synergies.
Revisions to the fair values disclosed in the 2008 interim Financial Statements were made in respect of other intangible assets 5 million increase to reflect updated assumptions and estimates within the intangible assets valuation models, to trade and other receivables in order to reflect updated assumptions on the valuation of in-the-money energy procurement contracts 4 million decrease, and to trade and other payables 9 million increase in order to recognise a legal liability and to reflect updated assumptions on the valuation of out-of-the-money sales contracts.
In addition, the acquired in-the-money energy procurement contracts were reclassified from trade and other receivables to derivative financial instruments.
These revisions resulted in an overall reduction in acquired net assets of 8 million, with a corresponding increase in goodwill.
d Caythorpe On 8 September 2008 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Caythorpe and related assets for cash consideration of 71 million.
Caythorpe owns a substantially depleted onshore gas field in the UK, together with planning permission and licences for conversion to an onshore gas storage facility.
The acquired business did not generate any profit or incur any loss from 8 September 2008 to 31 December 2008.
Adjustments have been made in respect of other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment in order to recognise the reservoir and related assets at their fair value, as well as the corresponding deferred tax liability, and to provisions for other liabilities and charges in order to recognise a decommissioning provision in respect of the existing site.
Goodwill of 33 million has arisen due to the unique positioning of the acquired business, expected synergies from operating Caythorpe as part of a portfolio of storage assets and the recognition of deferred tax as a result of the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired differing from their tax bases.
e Heimdal assets On 31 October 2008 the Group acquired interests in a number of non-operated gas and oil assets in Norway, collectively the Heimdal assets, for cash consideration of US$312 million 194 million.
A net amount of 5 million, which has been reflected as a reduction to the consideration amount, was due at 31 October 2008 from the vendor.
The net amount of 5 million comprised an amount receivable from the vendor of 10 million in respect of an adjustment for gas and oil produced and sold prior to the completion date and an amount payable to the vendor of 5 million in respect of deferred consideration.
As at 31 December 2008, the amount receivable from the vendor was fully settled.
The 5 million payable to the vendor was settled subsequent to the year end.
The US dollar consideration amount was hedged between the date the sale and purchase agreement was signed 8 July 2008 and the date the transaction completed 31 October 2008.
This resulted in a foreign exchange gain of 32 million being realised by the Group, which hedged the cash consideration on the acquisition.
The Heimdal assets comprise a combination of non-operating interests in producing fields, potential development projects and exploration opportunities.
The acquired business contributed a profit after tax of 3 million from 31 October 2008 to 31 December 2008.
The assets and liabilities acquired have been recognised at their respective fair values.
The Group does not have access to the vendors books and records which would include the assets and liabilities of the Heimdal assets at their pre-acquisition net book values and, hence, it is impracticable to disclose the carrying amounts on this basis.
Goodwill of 142 million has arisen principally in relation to the recognition of deferred tax as a result of the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired differing from their tax bases.
indd 127 1 10 3 09 15:48:16 0 3 09 15:48:16 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 35. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED North American business combinations Rockyview Energy TransGlobe Energy Strategic Energy Total IFRS IFRS IFRS carrying values Fair carrying values Fair carrying values Fair Fair pre-acquisition value pre-acquisition value pre-acquisition value value m m m m m m m Other intangible assets 7 11 3 11 25 Property, plant and equipment 48 53 30 25 3 3 81 Trade and other receivables: current 6 6 146 146 152 Trade and other receivables: non-current 2 2 2 Derivative financial instruments: current 111 72 72 Derivative financial instruments: non-current 83 61 61 Cash and cash equivalents 77 77 77 Trade and other payables: current 5 5 162 235 240 Trade and other payables: non-current 57 57 Bank loans 19 19 19 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 2 5 1 1 6 Deferred tax liabilities 4 1 1 1 2 Net assets acquired 31 40 28 26 260 80 146 Goodwill 7777 Cash consideration 40 26 157 223 UK and European business combinations Caythorpe Heimdal assets i Total IFRS carrying values Fair Fair Fair pre-acquisition value value value m m m m Other intangible assets 5 40 40 Property, plant and equipment 58 206 264 Trade and other receivables: current 7 7 Trade and other payables: current 53 53 Trade and other payables: non-current 14 14 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 5 36 41 Deferred tax liabilities 15 130 145 Net assets acquired 5 38 20 58 Goodwill 33 142 175 Gain on foreign exchange hedging instrument 32 32 Cash consideration 71 194 265 i The Group does not have access to the vendors books and records which would include the Heimdal assets at their pre-acquisition net book values and, hence, it is impracticable to disclose the carrying amounts on this basis.
f Other acquisitions The Group also acquired the assets and certain liabilities of Chilltrol Inc. on 29 February 2008 consideration 4 million, goodwill 3 million, the assets and certain liabilities of Airco Mechanical Ltd and a number of related companies on 22 July 2008 consideration 7 million, goodwill 4 million, Solar Technologies Group Ltd on 25 September 2008 consideration 2 million, goodwill 2 million, BMSi Ltd on 14 October 2008 consideration 10 million, which includes contingent consideration of 3 million, goodwill 6 million and Semplice Energy Ltd on 20 October 2008 consideration 1 million, goodwill 2 million.
The acquired businesses contributed a profit after tax of 1 million to the Group from their respective dates of acquisition up to 31 December 2008.
The pro forma consolidated results of the Group, as if the 2008 acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the period, include revenue from continuing operations of 21,926 million compared to reported Group revenue of 21,345 million and an after tax loss of 143 million compared to reported loss of 144 million.
In determining these pro forma consolidated results, an estimate of the preacquisition results relating to the Heimdal assets has not been included as the lack of access to the vendors books and records makes such an estimate impracticable.
The pro forma results have been calculated using the Groups accounting policies.
In preparing the pro forma results, revenue and costs have been included as if the businesses were acquired on 1 January 2008 and inter-company transactions had been eliminated.
This information is not necessarily indicative of the results of the combined Group that would have occurred had the purchases actually been made at the beginning of the period presented, or indicative of the future results of the combined Group.
indd 128 1 10 3 09 15:48:16 0 3 09 15:48:16 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 36.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES a Commitments 2008 2007 Commitments in relation to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment m m Construction of a power station at Langage 64 201 Construction of Lynn and Inner Dowsing wind farms 5 114 Redevelopment of Statfjord gas field 62 83 Other gas field developments 60 Other 79 69 270 467 2008 2007 Commitments in relation to the acquisition of intangible assets m m Renewable obligation certificates 1,058 1,075 Carbon emissions certificates 399 224 Certified emission reduction certificates 139 99 Other 83 49 1,679 1,447 2008 2007 Commitments in relation to other contracts m m Liquefied natural gas capacity 783 754 Transportation capacity 829 445 Outsourcing of services 216 167 Other 355 110 2,183 1,476 2008 2007 Commitments in relation to commodity purchase contracts m m Within one year 15,202 8,400 Between one and five years 23,267 18,100 After five years 11,210 9,100 49,679 35,600 The Group procures gas and electricity through a mixture of production from owned gas fields and power stations and procurement contracts.
Procurement contracts include short-term forward market purchases of gas and electricity at fixed and floating prices.
They also include gas contracts indexed to market prices and long-term gas contracts with non-gas indexation.
The total volume of gas to be taken under certain long-term structured contracts depends on a number of factors, including the actual reserves of gas that are eventually determined to be extractable on an economic basis.
The resulting monetary commitment is based on the minimum quantities of gas that the Group is contracted to pay at estimated future prices.
The estimated commitment to make payments under gas procurement contracts differs in scope and in basis from the maturity analysis of energy derivatives disclosed in note 21.
Only certain procurement and sales contracts are within the scope of IAS 39 and included in note 21.
In addition, the volumes used in calculating principal values are estimated using valuation techniques.
Contractual commitments which are subject to fulfilment of conditions precedent are excluded.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES CONTINUED b Decommissioning costs The Group has provided certain guarantees and indemnities to BG Group plc in respect of the decommissioning costs of the Morecambe gas fields.
The Company and its wholly owned subsidiary, Hydrocarbon Resources Limited, have agreed to provide security, in respect of such guarantees and indemnities, to BG International Limited, which, as original licence holder for the Morecambe gas fields, will have exposure to decommissioning costs relating to the Morecambe gas fields should liabilities not be fully discharged by the Group.
The security is to be provided when the estimated future net revenue stream from the Morecambe gas fields falls below 150% of the estimated cost of such decommissioning.
The nature of the security may take a number of different forms and will remain in force until the costs of such decommissioning have been irrevocably discharged and the relevant Department of Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform formerly Department of Trade and Industry decommissioning notice in respect of the Morecambe gas fields has been revoked.
c Operating lease commitments At 31 December the total of future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases for each of the following periods were: 2008 2007 m m Within one year 126 88 Between one and five years 230 165 After five years 142 146 498 399 2008 2007 m m The total of future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable operating sub-leases at 31 December 14 8 Lease and sub-lease payments recognised as an expense in the year were as follows: Minimum lease payments 77 60 i Contingent rents renewables 116 48 Contingent rents other 3 i The Group has entered into long-term arrangements with renewable providers to purchase physical power, renewable obligation certificates and levy exemption certificates from renewable sources.
Payments made under these contracts are contingent upon actual production and therefore the commitment to a minimum lease payment included above is nil 2007: nil.
Payments made for physical power are charged to the Income Statement as incurred and disclosed as contingent rents.
d Contingent liabilities There are no material contingent liabilities.
e Guarantees and indemnities In connection with the Groups energy trading, transportation and upstream activities, certain Group companies have entered into contracts under which they may be required to prepay or provide credit support or other collateral in the event of a significant deterioration in creditworthiness.
The extent of credit support is contingent upon the balance owing to the third party at the point of deterioration.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS During the year, the Group entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group: 2008 2007 Sale Purchase Sale Purchase of goods and of goods Other of goods and of goods Other services and services transactions services and services transactions m m m m m m Barrow Offshore Wind Limited 12 1 14 2 Braes of Doune Wind Farm Scotland Limited 13 10 The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund 78 2 72 2 78 25 3 72 24 4 130 C Centrica p58-144.
indd 130 1 10 3 09 15:48:16 0 3 09 15:48:16 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 37.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS CONTINUED Balances outstanding with related parties at 31 December were as follows: 2008 2007 Provision for Provision for bad or doubtful bad or doubtful debt relating to debt relating to Amounts owed Amounts owed amounts owed Amounts owed Amounts owed amounts owed from related to related from related from related to related from related parties parties parties parties parties parties m m m m m m Barrow Offshore Wind Limited 16 4 26 4 Braes of Doune Wind Farm Scotland Limited 32 8 38 4 The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund 5 3 53 12 67 8 Barrow Offshore Wind Limited and Braes of Doune Wind Farm Scotland Limited are both joint ventures of the Group.
The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund Fund was deconsolidated with effect from 1 December 2007.
The transactions disclosed in the tables above reflect all transactions entered into with the Fund for the full period disclosed.
The Fund is a related party of the Group due to the significance of the contractual arrangements in place between the Fund and the Group to the operations of the Fund.
2008 2007 Remuneration of key management personnel m m Short-term benefits 10 8 Post-employment benefits 1 3 Share-based payments 6 5 17 16 Key management personnel comprise members of the Board and Executive Committee, a total of 15 individuals at 31 December 2008 2007:15.
Key management personnel and their families purchase gas, electricity and home services products from the Group for domestic purposes on an arms length basis.
FIXED-FEE SERVICE CONTRACTS Fixed-fee service contracts are entered into with home services customers in the UK and North America HomeCare: 100, 200, 300, 400, HomeCare Flexi: 100, 200, 300, 400, Gas Appliance Care, Gas Appliance Check, Plumbing and Drains Care, Plumbing and Drains Care Flexi, Kitchen Appliance Care, Home Electrical Care and Home Electrical Care Flexi in the UK, and Heating Protection, Cooling Protection and Plumbing and Drains Protection in North America.
These contracts continue until cancelled by either party to the contract.
These plans incorporate both an annual service element and a maintenance element.
Fixed-fee service contracts protect purchasers of these contracts against the risk of breakdown of electrical, plumbing, heating, cooling and household appliances, resulting in the transfer of an element of risk from contract holders to Centrica.
Benefits provided to customers vary in accordance with terms and conditions of the contracts entered into, however, generally include repair and or replacement of the items affected.
The risk and level of service required within the maintenance element of the contracts is dependent upon the occurrence of uncertain future events, in particular the number of call-outs, the cost per call-out and the nature of the fault.
Accordingly, the timing and amount of future cash outflows related to the contracts is uncertain.
The key terms and conditions that affect future cash flows are as follows: x provision of labour and parts for repairs, dependent on the agreement and associated level of service: x one safety and maintenance inspection in every year of the agreement for HomeCare: 100, 200, 300, 400 excluding electrical fixtures, HomeCare Flexi: 100, 200, 300, 400 excluding electrical fixtures, Gas Appliance Care and Gas Appliance Check in the UK, and Heating Protection Plus and Cooling Protection Plus in North America : x one safety and maintenance inspection in every continuous two-year period of the agreement for HomeCare 400 electrical fixtures only, HomeCare Flexi: 400 electrical fixtures only, Home Electrical Care, Home Electrical Care Flexi, Kitchen Appliance Care, Plumbing and Drains Care and Plumbing and Drains Care Flexi : x no limit to the number of call-outs to carry out work included within the selected agreement: and x caps on certain maintenance and repair costs within fixed-fee contracts.
FIXED-FEE SERVICE CONTRACTS CONTINUED Revenue from fixed-fee service contracts is recognised on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract, reflecting the benefits receivable by the customer which span the life of the contract as a result of emergency maintenance potentially being required at any point within the contract term.
Cost of sales relates directly to the engineer workforce employed by Centrica within home services, the cost of which is accounted for over a 12-month period with adjustments made to reflect the seasonality of workload over a given year.
The costs of claims under the fixed-fee service contracts will be the costs of the engineer workforce employed by Centrica within home services.
These costs are accounted for over a 12-month period with adjustments made to reflect the seasonality of workload over a given year.
No further claims costs are accrued.
Weather conditions and the seasonality of maintenance can affect the number of call-outs, the cost per call-out and the nature of the fault.
Centricas obligations under the terms of its home services fixed-fee service contracts are based on the following types of uncertain future events taking place within the contract period: x boiler, radiator, controls, hot water cylinder and pipe work breakdown: x gas fire, water heater, wall heater and gas cooker breakdown: x hot and cold water pipe, overflow, cold tank, toilet siphon and radiator valve breakdown: x washing machine, tumble drier, dishwasher, fridge, freezer, cooker, oven, hob and microwave oven breakdown: x fixed electrical wiring system, fuse box, light switch, wall socket, circuit breaker and transformer breakdown: x ventor motor, circuit board, direct drive motor and flame sensor breakdown: and x evaporator and condenser fan motor breakdown.
Centrica actively manages the risk exposure of these uncertain events by undertaking the following risk mitigation activities: x an initial service visit is performed for central heating care.
If, at the initial visit, faults that cannot be rectified are identified, the fixedfee service contract will be cancelled and no further cover provided: x an annual or biennial safety and maintenance inspection is performed to ensure all issues are identified prior to them developing into significant maintenance or breakdown issues: and x caps on certain maintenance and repair work are incorporated into fixed-fee service contracts to limit liability in areas considered to be higher risk in terms of prevalence and cost to repair.
The Group considers the adequacy of estimated future cash flows under the contracts to meet expected future costs under the contracts.
Any deficiency is charged immediately to the Income Statement.
Service requests are sensitive to the reliability of appliances as well as the impact of weather conditions.
Each incremental 1% increase in service requests would impact profit and equity by approximately 8 million 2007: 7 million.
The contracts are not exposed to any interest rate risk or significant credit risk and do not contain any embedded derivatives.
The claims notified during the year were 291 million 2007: 269 million and were exactly matched by expenses related to fixed-fee service contracts.
All claims are settled immediately and in full.
2008 2007 m m Total revenue 944 885 Expenses relating to fixed-fee service contracts 754 727 Deferred income 27 34 39.
EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE The Directors propose a final dividend of 8.73 pence per ordinary share totalling 446 million for the year ended 31 December 2008.
On 20 January 2009, the Group acquired 50% of the issued share capital of Segebel SA for total consideration of 590 million 547 million, including deferred consideration of 70 million 65 million and transaction costs of 5 million 5 million, bringing the Groups total ownership interest in Segebel SA to 100%.
The transaction results in the Group acquiring a controlling interest in Segebel SA, which will result in it being consolidated as a subsidiary.
Segebel SA holds a controlling stake of 51% in SPE SA, a Belgian energy company.
As such, this transaction also results in the Group obtaining a controlling interest in SPE SA.
indd 132 1 10 3 09 15:48:17 0 3 09 15:48:17 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 39.
EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE CONTINUED The provisional fair values of the consolidated assets and liabilities of Segebel SA, including 100% of the assets and liabilities of SPE SA, as at the acquisition date are disclosed below.
These values are provisional because the Directors have not yet reached a final determination on all aspects of the fair value exercise.
In order to calculate goodwill arising from the acquisition, the minority interests in SPE SA 49% are eliminated from the consolidated net assets in order to present the net assets attributable to Segebel SA, of which the Group has acquired 50%.
In addition to the provisional estimate of 229 million of goodwill to be recognised as part of this transaction, the Group also holds previously recognised goodwill of 26 million arising from the acquisition of the initial 50% stake in Segebel SA in September 2005.
Goodwill of 229 million arises principally in relation to incremental benefits expected to arise from the Pax Electrica II arrangements, as well as the recognition of deferred tax on the fair value adjustments.
IFRS carrying values Fair pre-acquisition value m m Other intangible assets 203 576 Property, plant and equipment 343 940 Deferred tax assets 22 Retirement benefit assets 55 Trade and other receivables: current 406 532 Trade and other receivables: non-current 43 175 Inventories 32 33 Cash and cash equivalents 134 134 Net derivative financial instruments: current 65 65 Trade and other payables: current 356 465 Trade and other payables: non-current 78 Bank overdrafts, loans and other borrowings: current 14 14 Bank loans and other borrowings: non-current 88 89 Provisions for other liabilities and charges: current 6 Provisions for other liabilities and charges: non-current 78 78 Deferred tax liabilities 329 Retirement benefit obligations 22 22 Net assets 100% 565 1,249 Minority interest in SPE SA 612 Net assets attributable to Segebel SA shareholders 51% 637 Net assets acquired 50% 318 Goodwill 229 Total consideration 547 Consideration comprises: Deferred consideration 65 Cash consideration 482 On 30 June 2008, an agreement was entered into to transfer the active members of the Centrica Pension Scheme to the Centrica Management Pension Scheme with an effective date of 1 January 2009.
Liabilities and assets will accordingly be transferred with effect from this date.
There will be no tax effect arising on the transfer.
The Group has paid an additional 30 million to the Centrica Management Pension Scheme in December 2008 in relation to the transfer and will be paying a further amount of up to 79 million plus interest to that scheme.
In addition, the Group has agreed to provide security to the Centrica Management Pension Scheme in the form of a charge on assets and or letters of credit of up to 70 million in relation to the transfer.
PRINCIPAL UNDERTAKINGS Country of % Holding in ordinary shares 31 December 2008 incorporation formation and net assets Principal activity i Subsidiary undertakings Accord Energy Limited England 100 Wholesale energy trading Accord Energy Trading Limited England 100 Wholesale energy trading Bastrop Energy Partners LP USA 100 Power generation British Gas Insurance Limited England 100 Insurance provision British Gas Services Limited England 100 Servicing and installation of gas heating systems British Gas Trading Limited England 100 Energy supply Caythorpe Gas Storage Limited England 100 Gas storage Centrica Barry Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Brigg Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Canada Limited Canada 100 Holding company and gas production Centrica Energa SL Spain 100 Energy supply Centrica Energie GmbH Germany 100 Wholesale energy trading Centrica Energy Operations Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica KL Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica KPS Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Langage Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica PB Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Renewable Energy Limited England 100 Renewable energy holding company Centrica Renewable Holdings Limited England 100 Renewable energy holding company Centrica Resources Limited England 100 Gas and oil production Centrica Resources Nigeria Limited Nigeria 100 Upstream exploration Centrica Resources Norge AS Norway 100 Upstream exploration Centrica RPS Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica SHB Limited England 100 Power generation Centrica Storage Limited England 100 Gas storage CPL Retail Energy LP USA 100 Energy supply DER Development No.
10 Limited Canada 100 Gas production DER Partnership 2 Canada 100 Gas production Direct Energy LP USA 100 Energy supply Direct Energy Business LLC USA 100 Energy supply Direct Energy Marketing Inc USA 100 Wholesale energy trading Direct Energy Marketing Limited Canada 100 Energy supply and home services Direct Energy Partnership Canada 100 Energy supply Direct Energy Resources Partnership Canada 100 Gas production Direct Energy Services LLC USA 100 Energy supply and home services Dyno Holdings Limited England 100 Home services Energy America LLC USA 100 Energy supply Frontera Generation LP USA 100 Power generation GB Gas Holdings Limited England 100 Holding company Glens of Foudland Windfarm Limited England 100 Power generation Hydrocarbon Resources Limited England 100 Gas production Oxxio BV Netherlands 100 Energy supply Paris Generation LP USA 100 Power generation Residential Services Group Inc USA 100 Holding company Rockyview Energy Inc Canada 100 Gas and oil production The Centrica Gas Production LP England 100 Gas production WTU Retail Energy LP USA 100 Energy supply i Joint ventures Barrow Offshore Wind Limited England 50 Power generation Braes of Doune Wind Farm Scotland Limited Scotland 50 Power generation Segebel SA Belgium 50 Holding company i All principal undertakings are indirectly held by the Company.
The information is only given for those subsidiaries which in the Directors opinion principally affect the figures shown in the Financial Statements.
