Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Gas and Liquids Reserves unaudited The Groups estimates of reserves of gas and liquids are reviewed as part of the half-year and full-year reporting process and updated accordingly.
A number of factors affect the volumes of gas and liquids reserves, including the available reservoir data, commodity prices and future costs.
Due to the inherent uncertainties and the limited nature of reservoir data, estimates of reserves are subject to change as additional information becomes available.
The Group discloses proven and probable gas and liquids reserves, representing the central estimate of future hydrocarbon recovery.
Reserves for Centrica operated fields are estimated by in-house technical teams composed of geoscientists and reservoir engineers.
Reserves for non-operated fields are estimated by the operator, but are subject to internal review and challenge.
As part of the internal control process related to reserves estimation, an audit of the reserves, including the application of the reserves definitions, is undertaken by an independent technical auditor.
Reserves are estimated in accordance with a formal policy and procedure standard.
The Group has estimated proven and probable gas and liquids reserves in Europe and North America.
The principal fields in Europe are South Morecambe, North Morecambe, Statfjord, Grove, Seven Seas and the Rough field associated with Centrica Storage.
The European reserves estimates are consistent with the guidelines and definitions of the Society of Petroleum Engineers, Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers and World Petroleum Congress Petroleum Resources Management System using accepted principles.
An annual reserves audit has been carried out by ERC Energy Resource Consultants Ltd.
The principal fields in North America are Medicine Hat, Entice and Bashaw, located in the province of Alberta, Canada.
The North American reserves estimates have been evaluated in accordance with the Canadian Oil and Gas Evaluation Handbook COGEH reserves definitions and are consistent with the guidelines and definitions of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and the World Petroleum Congress.
North Estimated net proven and probable reserves of gas billion cubic feet Europe America Total 1 January 2008 1,433 322 1,755 i Revisions of previous estimates 5 37 32 ii Purchases of reserves in place 62 53 115 iii Extensions, discoveries and other additions 100 100 Production 238 37 275 31 December 2008 1,352 375 1,727 North Europe America Total Estimated net proven and probable reserves of liquids million barrels 1 January 2008 33 3 36 i Revisions of previous estimates 2 2 ii Purchases of reserves in place 4 1 5 iii Extensions, discoveries and other additions 1 1 Production 6 6 31 December 2008 32 4 36 i Includes minor reserves revisions to a number of fields in Europe and to the Medicine Hat, Bashaw and Entice fields in North America.
ii Reflects the equity acquisitions in the Grove field in the UK, the Heimdal, Skirne, Vale and Peik fields in Norway and the fields acquired with the Rockyview Energy and Transglobe Energy business combinations in North America.
iii Includes approval for the development of the Babbage and Seven Seas fields and development drilling in the Grove field.
Liquids reserves include oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
