FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCouNTINg PoLICIES 103 bASIS oF ACCouNTINg ANd pREpARATIoN product development and our development The accounting policy descriptions set oF FINANCIAl INFoRmATIoN pipeline are covered in detail with additional out the areas where judgement needs information by major product group in the exercising, the most significant of which The Consolidated Financial Statements have Directors Report.
are revenue recognition, research and been prepared under the historical cost development, goodwill and intangible convention, modified to include revaluation The financial position of the Group, its cash assets, litigation and environmental liabilities, to fair value of certain financial instruments flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities post-retirement benefits, taxation and as described below, in accordance with are described in the Financial Review.
the Companies Act 1985 and International In addition, Notes 15 and 16 to the Financial Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Statements includes the Groups objectives, Further information on critical judgements adopted by the European Union adopted policies and processes for managing its capital, made in applying accounting policies, IFRS in response to the IAS regulation its financial risk management objectives, including details of significant methods and EC 1606 2002.
The Consolidated Financial details of its financial instruments and hedging assumptions used, is included in Notes 8, 9, Statements also comply fully with IFRSs activities and its exposures to credit, market 16, 22, 23, 24 and 25.
The financial risk as issued by the International Accounting and liquidity risk.
Further details of the Groups management policies are detailed in Note 15.
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit cash balances and borrowings are included in on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Notes 13 and 14 of the Financial Statements.
REvENuE Requirements and their Interaction has Revenues exclude inter-company sales and been adopted in the year which is considered The Group has considerable financial value-added taxes and represent net invoice early adoption under EU adopted IFRS.
As at 31 December value less estimated rebates, returns and Reclassification of Financial Assets 2008, the Group has $7.8 billion in financial settlement discounts.
Revenues are recognised amendments to IAS 39 Financial resources cash balances of $4.3 billion when the significant risks and rewards of Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and committed bank facilities of $4.3 billion, ownership have been transferred to a third and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: with $0.8 billion of debt due within one year.
In general this is upon delivery of the Disclosures has been issued and we have The Groups revenues are largely derived products to wholesalers.
However, when a applied the principles of IFRIC 12 Service from sales of products which are covered by product faces generic competition particular Concession Arrangements.
Adoption of patents and for which, historically at least, attention is given to the possible levels of these new requirements has had no effect demand has been relatively unaffected by returns and, in cases where the circumstances on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
changes in the general economy.
In addition, are such that the level of returns and, hence, the Group has a wide diversity of customers revenue cannot be measured reliably, The amendment to IAS 39 Financial and suppliers across different geographic revenues are only recognised when the right Instruments: Recognition and Measurement areas.
As a consequence, the Directors believe of return expires which is generally on ultimate and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures that the Group is well placed to manage its prescription of the product to patients.
Reclassification of Financial Assets has been business risks successfully despite the adopted but had no impact on the overall current uncertain economic outlook.
RESEARCH ANd dEvElopmENT reported results.
Research expenditure is recognised in the After making enquiries, the Directors have income statement in the year in which it The Company has elected to prepare the a reasonable expectation that the Company is incurred.
Company Financial Statements in accordance and the Group have adequate resources with UK Accounting Standards.
These are to continue in operational existence for the Internal development expenditure is capitalised presented on pages 166 to 171 and the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue only if it meets the recognition criteria of accounting policies in respect of Company to adopt the going concern basis in preparing IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
Where regulatory information are set out on page 167. the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
and other uncertainties are such that the criteria are not met the expenditure The Consolidated Financial Statements are ESTImATES ANd judgEmENTS is recognised in the income statement.
This is presented in US dollars, which is the The preparation of the Financial Statements almost invariably the case prior to approval of Companys functional currency.
in conformity with generally accepted the drug by the relevant regulatory authority.
accounting principles requires management Where, however, the recognition criteria are In preparing their individual financial to make estimates and judgements that affect met, intangible assets are capitalised and statements, the accounting policies of some the reported amounts of assets and liabilities amortised on a straight-line basis over their overseas subsidiaries do not conform with at the date of the Financial Statements and useful economic lives from product launch.
Therefore, where appropriate, the reported amounts of revenues and As at 31 December 2008, no amounts have adjustments are made in order to present expenses during the reporting period.
Actual met the recognition criteria.
Payments to the Group Financial Statements on a results could differ from those estimates.
in-licence products and compounds from consistent basis.
external third parties, generally taking the Judgements include classification of form of up-front payments and milestones, bASIS FoR pREpARATIoN oF FINANCIAl transactions between the income statement are capitalised and amortised, generally on a STATEmENTS oN A goINg CoNCERN bASIS and balance sheet, whilst estimates focus straight-line basis, over their useful economic Information on the business environment on areas such as carrying values and lives from product launch.
Under this policy, it AstraZeneca operates in, including the estimated lives.
is not possible to determine precise economic factors underpinning the industrys future lives for individual classes of intangible assets.
growth prospects, are included in the AstraZenecas management considers However, lives range from three years to Directors Report.
Details of the product the following to be the most important twenty years.
portfolio of the Group, our approach to accounting policies in the context of the Groups operations.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 104 Payments to defined contribution plans are model.
In accordance with IFRS 2 ShareIntangible assets relating to products in development both internally generated and recognised in the income statement as they based Payment, the resulting cost is externally acquired are subject to impairment fall due.
recognised in the income statement over testing at each balance sheet date.
All the vesting period of the options, being the TAxATIoN period in which the services are received.
intangible assets are tested for impairment when there are indications that the carrying The current tax payable is based on taxable The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect value may not be recoverable.
Any impairment profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from expected and actual levels of awards vesting, losses are recognised immediately in the profit as reported in the income statement except where the failure to vest is as a result because it excludes items that are never of not meeting a market condition.
The Groups current buSINESS CombINATIoNS ANd goodWIll tax assets and liabilities are calculated using pRopERTy, plANT ANd EquIpmENT On the acquisition of a business, fair values tax rates that have been enacted or The Groups policy is to write off the difference substantively enacted by the balance between the cost of each item of property, are attributed to the identifiable assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities unless the sheet date.
plant and equipment and its residual value fair value cannot be measured reliably in which systematically over its estimated useful life.
case the value is subsumed into goodwill.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance Assets under construction are not depreciated.
sheet liability method, providing for temporary Where fair values of acquired contingent liabilities cannot be measured reliably, the differences between the carrying amounts Reviews are made annually of the estimated assumed contingent liability is not recognised of assets and liabilities for financial reporting remaining lives and residual values of but is disclosed in the same manner as other purposes and the amounts used for taxation individual productive assets, taking account of purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised commercial and technological obsolescence contingent liabilities.
Goodwill is the difference between consideration paid and the fair value to the extent that it is probable that taxable as well as normal wear and tear.
Under this of net assets acquired.
profit will be available against which the asset policy it becomes impractical to calculate can be utilised.
This requires judgements to average asset lives exactly.
However, the total lives range from approximately thirteen Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised be made in respect of the availability of future and subject to an impairment review, both taxable income.
to fifty years for buildings, and three to fifteen annually and when there is an indication that years for plant and equipment.
All items of the carrying value may not be recoverable.
No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment when there are indications that Between 1 January 1998 and 31 December in respect of temporary differences associated 2002, goodwill was amortised over its with investments in subsidiaries, branches the carrying value may not be recoverable.
estimated useful life: such amortisation and joint ventures where the Group is able to Any impairment losses are recognised ceased on 31 December 2002. control the timing of reversal of the temporary immediately in the income statement.
differences and it is probable that the The Groups policy up to and including temporary differences will not reverse in boRRoWINg CoSTS 1997 was to eliminate goodwill arising upon the foreseeable future.
Borrowing costs are recognised in the income acquisitions against reserves.
Under IFRS 1 statement as incurred and in accordance with the effective interest rate method.
First-time Adoption of International Financial The Groups deferred tax assets and liabilities Reporting Standards and IFRS 3 Business are calculated using tax rates that are expected Combinations, such goodwill will remain to apply in the period when the liability is lEASES eliminated against reserves.
settled or the asset realised based on tax Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis.
rates that have been enacted or substantively EmployEE bENEFITS enacted by the balance sheet date.
The Group accounts for pensions and other SubSIdIARIES employee benefits principally healthcare Accruals for tax contingencies require A subsidiary is an entity controlled, directly or indirectly, by AstraZeneca.
Control is regarded under IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
In respect management to make judgements and of defined benefit plans, obligations are estimates of ultimate exposures in relation as the power to govern the financial and measured at discounted present value whilst to tax audit issues.
Tax benefits are not operating policies of the entity so as to obtain plan assets are measured at fair value.
The recognised unless the tax positions will benefits from its activities.
operating and financing costs of such plans probably be sustained.
Once considered are recognised separately in the income to be probable, management reviews each The financial results of subsidiaries are statement: current service costs are spread material tax benefit to assess whether consolidated from the date control is systematically over the lives of employees a provision should be taken against full obtained until the date that control ceases.
and financing costs are recognised in full in recognition of that benefit on the basis of the periods in which they arise.
Actuarial potential settlement through negotiation and INvENToRIES gains and losses are recognised immediately or litigation.
All provisions are included in Inventories are stated at the lower of cost in the statement of recognised income current liabilities.
Any recorded exposure to or net realisable value.
The first in, first out or an average method of valuation is used.
interest on tax liabilities is provided for in the tax charge.
See Note 25 for further details.
For finished goods and work in progress, Where the calculation results in a benefit to cost includes directly attributable costs the Group, the recognised asset is limited SHARE-bASEd pAymENTS and certain overhead expenses including depreciation.
Selling expenses and certain to the present value of any available future All plans are assessed and have been refunds from the plan or reductions in future classified as equity settled.
The grant date other overhead expenses principally central contributions to the plan.
fair value of employee share option awards is administration costs are excluded.
Net generally calculated using the Black-Scholes realisable value is determined as estimated ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 105 remeasured to fair value at each balance effective interest rate method at each balance selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in sheet date.
Changes in carrying value due sheet date.
Changes in carrying value are selling and distribution.
to changes in exchange rates or impairments recognised in the income statement.
are recognised in the income statement.
All other changes in fair value are recognised dERIvATIvES Write downs of inventory occur in the general course of business and are included in cost as income or expense directly in reserves.
Derivatives are initially measured at fair value of sales in the income statement.
Impairments are recorded in the income with direct transaction costs being included statement when there is a decline in the in the income statement as an expense and value of an investment that is deemed to are subsequently remeasured to fair value at TRAdE ANd oTHER RECEIvAblES Trade and other receivables are recognised be other than temporary.
On disposal of each balance sheet date.
Changes in carrying initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial the investment, the cumulative income or value are recognised in the income statement.
recognition they are measured at amortised expense recognised in reserves is recognised as part of the gain or loss on disposal in the FoREIgN CuRRENCIES cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment losses.
Foreign currency transactions, being transactions denominated in a currency other TRAdE ANd oTHER pAyAblES bANk ANd oTHER boRRoWINgS than an individual Group entitys functional The Group uses derivatives, principally interest currency, are translated into the respective Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial rate swaps, to hedge the interest rate exposure functional currencies of individual Group recognition they are measured at amortised inherent in a portion of its fixed interest rate entities at average rates for the relevant cost using the effective interest rate method.
In such cases the Group will either monthly accounting periods, which designate the debt as fair value through profit approximate to actual rates.
FINANCIAl INSTRumENTS or loss when certain criteria are met or as the The Groups financial instruments include hedged item under a fair value hedge.
Monetary assets, arising from foreign interests in leases and rights and obligations currency transactions, are retranslated at If the debt instrument is designated as fair exchange rates prevailing at the date of the under employee benefit plans which are dealt with in specific accounting policies.
value through profit or loss, the debt is initially balance sheet.
Exchange gains and losses measured at fair value with direct transaction on loans and on short term foreign currency The Groups other financial instruments include: costs being included in the income statement borrowings and deposits are included within net interest payable.
Exchange differences as an expense and is remeasured to fair value Cash and cash equivalents at each balance sheet date with changes in on all other foreign currency transactions are Fixed deposits carrying value being recognised in the income taken to operating profit in the individual Other investments statement along with changes in the fair value Group entitys accounting records.
Bank and other borrowings of the related derivative.
Such a designation Derivatives has been made where this significantly Non-monetary items arising from foreign reduces an accounting mismatch which currency transactions are not retranslated in CASH ANd CASH EquIvAlENTS would result from recognising gains and the individual Group entitys accounting records.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash losses on different bases.
in hand, current balances with banks and In the Consolidated Financial Statements, similar institutions and highly liquid investments If the debt is designated as the hedged item income statement items for Group entities with maturities of three months or less when under a fair value hedge, the debt is initially with a functional currency other than US dollars, are translated into US dollars at acquired.
They are readily convertible into measured at fair value with direct transaction known amounts of cash and are held at costs being amortised over the life of the average exchange rates, which approximate amortised cost.
bonds, and is remeasured for fair value to actual rates, for the relevant accounting changes in respect of the hedged risk at periods.
Assets and liabilities are translated at US exchange rates prevailing at the date FIxEd dEpoSITS each balance sheet date with changes in Fixed deposits, comprising principally funds carrying value being recognised in the income of the Group balance sheet.
Exchange held with banks and other financial institutions, statement along with changes in the fair differences arising on consolidation are taken are initially measured at fair value including value of the related derivative.
to equity via the statement of recognised income and expense.
direct transaction costs and are subsequently remeasured to amortised cost using the If certain criteria are met, non-US dollar effective interest rate method at each balance denominated loans are designated as net Exchange differences arising on retranslation sheet date.
Changes in carrying value are investment hedges of foreign operations of net investments in subsidiaries and of foreign currency loans which hedge these recognised in the income statement.
and exchange differences arising from the retranslation are recognised directly in net investments, are taken directly to equity oTHER INvESTmENTS reserves to the extent that the hedge is via the statement of recognised income and Where investments have been classified as effective.
All other exchange differences expense in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Gains and losses accumulated held for trading, they are measured initially giving rise to changes in the carrying value at fair value and subsequently at fair value.
of foreign currency loans and overdrafts are in the translation reserve will be recycled to Changes in fair value are recognised in the recognised in the income statement.
the income statement when the foreign income statement.
Other interest bearing loans are initially In all other circumstances, the investments measured at fair value including direct are initially measured at fair value including transaction costs and are subsequently direct transaction costs and are subsequently remeasured to amortised cost using the ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 106 INTERNATIoNAl ACCouNTINg TRANSITIoN Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: lITIgATIoN ANd ENvIRoNmENTAl lIAbIlITIES Through the normal course of business, On transition to using adopted IFRS in the Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of AstraZeneca is involved in legal disputes, year ended 31 December 2005, the Financial Statements Puttable Financial the settlement of which may involve cost Company took advantage of several optional Instruments and Obligations Arising on exemptions available in IFRS 1 First-time Liquidation was issued in February 2008. to the Group.
Provision is made where an adverse outcome is probable and associated Adoption of International Financial Reporting The amendments require puttable instruments, costs, including related legal costs, can be Standards.
The major impacts which are of and instruments that impose on the entity estimated reliably.
In other cases, appropriate continuing importance are detailed below: an obligation to deliver to another party a pro rata share of net assets of the entity only on disclosures are included.
Business combinations IFRS 3 Business liquidation, to be classified as equity if certain Where it is considered that the Group is more Combinations has been applied from conditions are met.
The amendments are likely than not to prevail, legal costs involved 1 January 2003, the date of transition, effective for annual periods beginning on or rather than being applied fully retrospectively.
after 1 January 2009 and will be applied in defending the claim are charged to the income statement as they are incurred.
As a result, the combination of Astra and retrospectively.
Adoption of the amendments Zeneca is still accounted for as a merger, is not expected to have any impact upon Where it is considered that the Group has rather than through purchase accounting.
the net results, net assets or disclosures If purchase accounting had been of AstraZeneca.
a valid contract which provides the right to reimbursement from insurance or otherwise adopted, Zeneca would have been of legal costs and or all or part of any loss deemed to have acquired Astra.
A revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations was incurred or for which a provision has been issued in January 2008.
The following changes Cumulative exchange differences the will be relevant to the Groups operations: established, the best estimate of the amount expected to be received is recognised as Group chose to set the cumulative an asset.
exchange difference reserve at 1 January Contingent consideration will be measured 2003 to zero.
at fair value, with subsequent changes to the fair value being recognised in the AstraZeneca is exposed to environmental liabilities relating to its past operations, ACCouNTINg STANdARdS ANd INTERpRETATIoNS income statement.
principally in respect of soil and groundwater ISSuEd buT NoT yET AdopTEd remediation costs.
Provisions for these costs IFRS 8 Operating Segments was issued in Transaction costs, other than share November 2006.
It requires the identification and debt issue costs, will be expensed are made when there is a present obligation and where it is probable that expenditure on of operating segments based on internal as incurred.
remedial work will be required and a reliable reporting to the chief operating decision estimate can be made of the cost.
Provisions maker and extends the scope and disclosure Any pre-existing interest in the acquiree will be measured at fair value with the gain or are discounted where the effect is material.
requirements of IAS 14 Segmental Reporting.
It is effective for annual periods beginning loss recognised in the income statement.
ImpAIRmENT on or after 1 January 2009.
The adoption of The carrying value of non-financial assets, IFRS 8 will not have a significant impact upon Any non-controlling minority interest will be measured at either fair value, or at its other than inventories and deferred tax the net results, net assets or disclosures of assets are reviewed at least annually to AstraZeneca.
proportionate interest in the identifiable determine whether there is any indication of assets and liabilities of the acquiree, on impairment.
For goodwill, intangible assets A revised IAS 23 Borrowing Costs was a transaction by transaction basis.
under development and for any other assets issued in March 2007.
It removes the option where such indication exists, then the assets of immediately recognising as an expense The revised Standard is effective for business recoverable amount is estimated based on borrowing costs that relate to assets that combinations on or after 1 January 2010 and the greater of its value in use and its fair value take a substantial period of time to prepare will be applied prospectively from that date.
In assessing value in use, for use and therefore requires an entity to the estimated future cash flows, adjusted capitalise borrowing costs as part of the An amendment to IAS 27 Consolidated and for the risks specific to each asset, are cost of such assets.
The revised Standard is Separate Financial Statements 2008 was discounted to their present value using a effective for annual periods beginning on issued in January 2008.
The amendment requires changes in ownership interests in discount rate that reflects current market or after 1 January 2009 and will be applied assessments of the time value of money and prospectively from that date.
The adoption of a subsidiary, while maintaining control, to be the general risks affecting the pharmaceutical these amendments to IAS 23 is not expected recognised as an equity transaction.
For the purpose of impairment to have a material effect upon the net results of a subsidiary is lost, any retained interest is measured at fair value with the gain or testing, assets are grouped together into the or net assets of AstraZeneca going forward.
smallest group of assets that generates cash loss recognised in the income statement.
inflows from continuing use that are largely A revised IAS 1 Presentation of Financial The amendment is effective for accounting independent of the cash flows of other Statements was issued in September 2007. periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 and will not have a significant impact upon assets.
Impairment losses are recognised It revises the presentation of non-owner in the income statement.
changes in equity and introduces a statement the net results, net assets or disclosures of comprehensive income.
It is effective of AstraZeneca.
for annual periods beginning on or after Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment 1 January 2009.
The adoption of these amendments to IAS 1 will not have a significant Vesting Conditions and Cancellations clarify impact upon the net results or net assets the definition of vesting conditions and of AstraZeneca.
introduces the concept of non-vesting ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 107 conditions.
The amendments are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 and are not expected to have a significant impact upon the net results, net assets or disclosures of AstraZeneca.
The amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items deals with two situations where diversity in practice exists on the designation of inflation as a hedged risk and the treatment of one-sided risks on hedged items.
The amendment is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The amendment is not expected to have a significant impact upon the net results, net assets or disclosures of AstraZeneca.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments was endorsed by the EU during 2007.
The amendments to IAS 23, IAS 1 and IFRS 2 were endorsed by the EU in 2008.
The remaining standards and amendments have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
The following IFRIC interpretations have been issued but are not yet adopted by AstraZeneca: IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes and IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation.
The interpretations are effective for accounting periods commencing on 1 July 2008 and 1 October 2008 respectively.
IFRIC 13 was endorsed by the EU in 2008.
IFRIC 16 has yet to be endorsed by the EU.
Neither interpretation is expected to have a significant impact upon adoption.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008
