98 PrEPArATIoN oF ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANd dIrECTorS rESPoNSIbILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing In preparing each of the Group and Company Under applicable law and regulations, the the Annual Report and Form 20-F Information Financial Statements, the Directors are Directors are also responsible for preparing and the Group and Company Financial required to: a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Statements, in accordance with applicable Report and Corporate Governance Statement law and regulations.
Select suitable accounting policies and that comply with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare The Directors are responsible for the Group and Company Financial Statements Make judgements and estimates that maintenance and integrity of the corporate for each financial year.
Under that law they are reasonable and prudent.
and financial information included on the are required to prepare the Group Financial Companys website.
Legislation in the UK Statements in accordance with IFRSs as For the Group Financial Statements, governing the preparation and dissemination adopted by the European Union EU and state whether they have been prepared of Financial Statements may differ from applicable law and have elected to prepare in accordance with IFRSs as adopted legislation in other jurisdictions.
the Company Financial Statements in by the EU.
accordance with UK Accounting Standards dIRECToRS RESpoNSIbIlITy STATEmENT and applicable law UK Generally Accepted For the Company Financial Statements, puRSuANT To dTR 4 Accounting Practice.
state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject The Directors confirm that to the best of The Group Financial Statements are required to any material departures disclosed our knowledge: by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to and explained in the Company present fairly the financial position and Financial Statements.
The Financial Statements, prepared in performance of the Group: the Companies accordance with the applicable set of Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial Prepare the Financial Statements on accounting standards, give a true and statements that references in the relevant the going concern basis unless it is fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial part of that Act to financial statements giving inappropriate to presume that the position and profit or loss of the Company a true and fair view are references to their Group and the Company will continue and the undertakings included in the achieving a fair presentation.
The Company has also elected to prepare the The Directors are responsible for keeping The Directors Report includes a fair review Group Financial Statements in accordance proper accounting records that disclose with of the development and performance of with IFRS as issued by the International reasonable accuracy at any time the financial the business and the position of the issuer Accounting Standards Board.
position of the Company and enable them to and the undertakings included in the ensure that its financial statements comply with consolidation taken as a whole, together The Company Financial Statements are the Companies Act 1985.
They have general with a description of the principal risks required by law to give a true and fair view responsibility for taking such steps as are and uncertainties that they face.
of the state of affairs of the Company.
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and the Company and to On behalf of the Board of Directors on prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
29 January 2009: dAvId R bRENNAN Director dIrECTorS rESPoNSIbILITIES For, ANd rEPorT oN, INTErNAL CoNTroL ovEr FINANCIAL rEPorTINg The Directors are responsible for establishing become inadequate because of changes KPMG Audit Plc, an independent registered and maintaining adequate internal control in conditions or that the degree of public accounting firm, has audited the over financial reporting.
AstraZenecas compliance with the policies or procedures effectiveness of internal control over financial internal control over financial reporting is may deteriorate.
reporting as at 31 December 2008 and, designed to provide reasonable assurance as explained on page 99, has issued an over the reliability of financial reporting and The Directors assessed the effectiveness of unqualified report thereon.
the preparation of consolidated financial AstraZenecas internal control over financial statements in accordance with generally reporting as at 31 December 2008 based accepted accounting principles.
on the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Due to its inherent limitations, internal control Commission in Internal Control-Integrated over financial reporting may not prevent or Framework.
Based on this assessment, the detect misstatements.
Projections of any Directors believe that, as at 31 December evaluation of effectiveness to future periods 2008, the internal control over financial are subject to the risks that controls may reporting is effective based on those criteria.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008
