ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GLOSSARY 199 mARKET dEFINITIoNS TABlE NoRTh AmERICA ESTABlIShEd REST oF WoRld EmERgINg REST oF WoRld Japan Other Established US Canada Western Europe Emerging Europe China Emerging Other Emerging Asia Pacific US Canada Austria Japan Australia Czech Republic China India Algeria Belgium New Zealand Estonia Hong Kong Malaysia Argentina Denmark Latvia Philippines Brazil Finland Poland South Korea Central America France Slovakia Taiwan Chile Germany Turkey Thailand Colombia Greece Egypt Holland Lebanon Italy Mexico Norway Morocco Portugal Peru Spain Saudi Arabia Sweden South Africa UK UAE Venezuela Iceland Albania Afghanistan Luxembourg Belarus Bangladesh Bosnia-Herzegovina Brunei Bulgaria Cambodia Croatia Indonesia Georgia Laos Hungary Myanmar Macedonia Nepal Romania Papua New Guinea Russia Singapore Serbia Montenegro Sri Lanka Vietnam Emerging Markets means Emerging Rest of World.
Established Markets means North America and Established Rest of World.
IMS Data is not included for those countries listed in the lower table.
The following abbreviations and expressions have biopharmaceuticals biologics A class of average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the following meanings when used in this report: medicines derived from proteins usually produced the year.
naturally by living organisms in response to disease, abbreviated new drug application ANDA for example antibodies.
efficacy The beneficial effect of a drug refers to the A marketing approval application for a generic drug potential maximum therapeutic response that a drug submitted to the US Food and Drug Administration.
bipolar disorder Any of several mood disorders, can produce.
usually characterised by alternating episodes of abbreviated new drug submission ANDS depression and mania or by episodes of depression EFPIA The European Federation of Pharmaceutical A marketing approval application for a generic drug alternating with mild non-psychotic excitement.
bipolar I disorder A sub-set of bipolar patients who EMEA The European Medicines Agency.
adjuvant An agent that modifies the effect of other have experienced one or more manic or mixed episodes.
agents for example drugs and vaccines while having Emerging Markets Emerging Rest of World, see few if any direct effects when given by itself: it biosimilars Follow-on biopharmaceuticals that are table above.
operates like a catalyst in chemical reactions.
biologically similar to an existing medicine.
Established Markets North America and Established ADR American Depositary Receipt evidencing title BLA Biological Licence Application Granting Rest of World, see table above.
of the licence certifies that biological product is safe, pure and potent: and the facility in which it EU European Union.
ADS American Depositary Share representing one is manufactured meets standards designed to underlying Ordinary Share.
ensure that it continues to be safe, pure and potent.
finance income and expense This includes interest earned and payable, and similar items.
agonist A substance capable of binding to a Board The Board of Directors of AstraZeneca PLC.
molecular target to trigger a response.
first good laboratory practice FGLP The point CAT Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc.
at which a compound undergoes the first pre-clinical angiotensin II A hormone that causes blood vessels study that is required for regulatory approval: to narrow and thereby raises blood pressure.
this marks entry into the development pipeline.
antagonist A substance capable of binding to a Company AstraZeneca PLC.
first-line therapy Treatment given to a newly molecular target to neutralise or counteract a reaction.
diagnosed patient, who has therefore not yet been Complete Response Letter A complete response treated: it is the initial treatment of a disease, sign anti-cytokine monoclonal antibodies MAbs is now issued by the FDA when it has completed or symptom.
A group of large molecule compounds which can its evaluation of a regulatory submission.
block interactions between cytokines and their Food and Drug Administration FDA Part of the receptors.
Cytokines are a class of signalling cost growth rates Percentage growth of a particular US Department of Health and Human Services molecule, used in cellular communication, similar cost category over the comparable cost category for Agency, which is the regulatory authority for all to hormones and neurotransmitters preventing the previous year.
pharmaceuticals including biologics and vaccines them from functioning and medical devices in the US.
depositary JPMorgan Chase Bank, as depositary AstraZeneca AstraZeneca PLC and its subsidiaries.
under the deposit agreement pursuant to which the generalised anxiety disorder GAD A neurotic ADRs are issued.
illness characterised by chronic and persistent biomarker A characteristic that can be measured apprehension and tension.
objectively and evaluated as an indicator of normal Director A director of the Company.
biological, or pathogenic processes, or pharmacological gross margin The margin, as a percentage, by which responses to a therapeutic intervention.
earnings per share EPS Profit for the year after sales exceed the cost of sales, calculated by dividing tax and minority interests, divided by the weighted the difference between the two by the sales figure.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 8831 AZ AR08 p189-200 v03 13 02 JHC.
indd 199 26 2 09 15:28:12 200 Group AstraZeneca PLC and its subsidiaries.
outcomes study A clinical trial usually large siRNA molecules Small or short or silencing interfering assessing the effect of a drug in preventing or RNA.
A class of 20-25 nucleotide double stranded high-density lipoprotein cholesterol HDL-C delaying a specific and important medical event RNA molecules that interfere with the expression of Cholesterol carried in the blood by HDL back to the for example the occurrence of a heart attack.
In this specific case, siRNA is a type liver, sometimes referred to as good cholesterol.
parenteral Administered by injection for example hsCRP A high-sensitivity C-Reactive Protein to intravenous, sub-cutaneous and intramuscular.
small molecule A general term used to describe determine the potential risk for cardiovascular disease pharmaceutical R&D using chemistry and chemical measures levels of C-Reactive Protein in the blood.
Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of methods and materials to discover and develop new America PhRMA The principal US pharmaceutical medicines.
Chemical molecules are small compared IAS International Accounting Standards.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
pharmacovigilance The scientific collection and specialist care The medical care the patient receives evaluation of information from healthcare providers after being referred by the primary care provider.
and patients relating to the adverse effects of medicines.
sterling, GBP, pence or p References to the large molecule A general term used to describe currency of the UK.
pharmaceutical R&D using biology and biological Phase I The phase of clinical research where a new methods and materials to discover and develop new drug or treatment is tested in small groups of people supplemental new drug application sNDA medicines.
Biological molecules are large compared 20 to 80 to check that the drug can achieve An application made to the US Food and Drug with chemical molecules.
appropriate concentrations in the body, determine Administration to seek approval to market an additional a safe dosage range and identify side effects.
indication for a drug already on the market.
LIBID London Interbank Bid Rate.
This phase includes healthy volunteer studies.
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol LDL-C Phase II This phase of clinical research includes the Cholesterol that is carried in the blood by LDL, controlled clinical activities conducted to evaluate the UK The United Kingdom of Great Britain and sometimes referred to as bad cholesterol.
effectiveness of the drug in patients with the disease Northern Ireland.
under study and to determine the common LSE London Stock Exchange plc.
short-term side effects and risks associated with the UK Combined Code Guidance that sets out drug.
Phase II studies are typically conducted in a standards of good practice in corporate governance MAb Monoclonal antibody A large molecule that is relatively small number of patients usually no more for the UK.
extremely specific: that is, it binds to and attacks one than several hundred.
US The United States of America.
Phase III This phase of clinical research is performed major depressive disorder MDD Depression where to gather additional information about effectiveness US dollar, US$, USD or $ References to the currency five or more symptoms of depression are present for and safety of the drug, often in a comparative setting, of the US.
to evaluate the overall benefit risk profile of the drug.
Phase III studies usually include between several World Health Organization WHO The United marketing authorisation application MAA hundred and several thousand patients.
Nations specialised agency for health.
An application for authorisation to place medical products on the market.
This is a specific term for placebo In clinical trials, an inert substance identical XR Extended release.
the EU and European Economic Area EEA markets.
in appearance to the substance being tested, also known as a sugar pill.
Medicare A US health insurance programme for US citizens aged 65 or older, US citizens under age 65 poly-ADP-ribose polymerase PARP An enzyme with certain disabilities and US citizens of all ages critical to the repair of damaged cells and with permanent kidney failure requiring dialysis or a maintenance of cellular energy.
Recently, Medicare began offering prescription drug coverage under Part D of the pre-clinical studies Studies conducted before a drug Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit Program.
is tested in human subjects, and which support and help establish boundaries for safe use of the drug in moving annual total MAT A figure that represents subsequent Phase I studies.
the financial value of a variable for 12 months.
pressurised metered dose inhaler pMDI An new chemical entity NCE new molecular entity aerosol inhaler puffer device for delivering medicine NME A new,  substance.
The term is used to differentiate from line extensions and existing drug products.
NCE is a term referring primary care The medical care that a patient receives to chemical substances whereas NME covers upon first contact with the healthcare system, before all modalities.
referral elsewhere within the system.
new drug application NDA An application to the profit before tax Operating profit, plus finance US Food and Drug Administration for approval to income, less finance expense.
market a new medicine in the US.
NYSE New York Stock Exchange.
second-line treatment Treatment administered after operating costs Distribution costs, research the failure of, or in addition to, first-line therapy.
and development costs and selling, general and administrative costs.
Securities and Exchange Commission SEC US governmental agency that regulates the securities operating profit Sales, less cost of sales, less industry stock market.
operating costs, plus operating income.
Senior Executive Team SET Team of heads of the Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares of $0.25 each various AstraZeneca functions.
in the capital of the Company.
SG&A costs Selling, general and administrative costs.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 INTRODUCTION 2 AstraZeneca and our year in brief 2 Financial highlights 2 Chairmans statement 4 Chief Executive Officers review 5 DIRECTORS REPORT 8 Introduction 8 DIRECTORS REPORT 8 Business environment 9 Strategy, goals and performance measurement 12 Measuring our performance 14 Reporting our performance Financial and Non-financial 15 Resources, skills and capabilities 16 Medicines 16 Research and development 17 Development pipeline at 29 January 2009 22 Sales and marketing 25 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 98 TRADE MARkS Intellectual property 26 Trade marks of the AstraZeneca group of companies Supply and manufacturing 27 appear throughout this document in italics.
AstraZeneca, People 28 the AstraZeneca logotype and the AstraZeneca Financial review 31 symbol are all trade marks of the AstraZeneca group of companies.
Trade marks of companies other than Measuring performance 31 AstraZeneca appear with a or sign and include: Business background and Abraxane, a registered trade mark of Abraxis major events affecting 2008 32 BioScience, LLC.
: Advair Diskus, a trade mark of GlaxoSmithKline group of companies: Aspirin, Results of operations a trade mark of Bayer AG: Avastin, a trade mark of summary analysis of year Genentech, Inc. : BiTE, a trade mark of Micromet AG: to 31 December 2008 33 Cubicin, a trade mark of Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc. : Financial position, including Captisol, a trade mark of CyDex Pharmaceuticals Inc. : cash flow and liquidity 2008 34 CytoFab, a trade mark of Protherics, Inc. : Enbrel, a trade mark of Amgen group of companies: REMUNERATION REPORT 174 Restructuring and synergy costs 36 EvaluatePharma, a trade mark of Evaluate PLC: Capitalisation and shareholder return 37 Herceptin, a trade mark of Genentech, Inc. : Humira, Future prospects 37 a trade mark of Abbott Biotechnology Ltd: Lean Sigma, a trade mark of Smallpiece Enterprises Limited: Results of operations Lipitor, a trade mark of Pfizer Ireland Pharmaceuticals: summary analysis of year to Onglyza, a trade mark of the Bristol-Myers Squibb 31 December 2007 38 Company: Prinivil, a trade mark of Merck & Co. Inc. : Financial position, including Remicade, a trade mark of Centocor, Inc. : Seretide, a trade mark of GlaxoSmithKline group of companies: cash flow and liquidity 2007 40 Taxotere, a trade mark of Aventis Pharma SA: TriCor, Financial risk management 41 a trade mark of Fournier Industrie et Sant: Trilipix, Critical accounting policies a trade mark of Abbott Laboratories: Zocor, a trade and estimates 43 mark of Merck & Co. Inc. : and Zyprexa, a trade mark of Eli Lilly and Company.
Other accounting information 47 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 190 USE OF TERMS In this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information, unless the context otherwise requires, AstraZeneca, the Group, we, us and our refer to AstraZeneca PLC and its consolidated entities.
IMPORTANT INFORMATION be materially different from those predicted.
The Inclusion of reported, constant exchange rate forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and and core financial measures FOR READERS OF THIS REPORT STATEMENTS OF DATES information available at the date of the preparation Throughout the Directors Report and in the Financial Except as otherwise stated, references to days of this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information Highlights section on page 2 and 3 the following and or months in this Annual Report and Form 20-F Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking and the Company undertakes no obligation to measures are referred to: Information are references to days and or months statements update these forward-looking statements.
The purpose of this Annual Report and Form 20-F identify the forward-looking statements by using the Reported performance.
Reported performance Information is to provide information to the members words anticipates, believes, expects, intends takes into account all the factors including those of the Company.
In order, among other things, to and similar expressions in such statements.
which we cannot influence, principally currency utilise the safe harbour provisions of the US Private Important factors that could cause actual results to exchange rates that have affected the results of our Securities Litigation Reform Act 1995 and the UK differ materially from those contained in forwardbusiness as reflected in our Group Financial Companies Act 2006, we are providing the following looking statements, certain of which are beyond our Statements prepared in accordance with cautionary statement: This Annual Report and Form control, include, among other things, those factors International Financial Reporting Standards as 20-F Information contains certain forward-looking identified in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties adopted by the European Union and as issued by statements with respect to the operations, section on pages 74 to 82 of this document.
the International Accounting Standards Board.
performance and financial condition of the Group.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Form 20-F Although we believe our expectations are based on Information should be construed as a profit Core financial measures.
This is a non-GAAP measure reasonable assumptions, any forward-looking forecast.
because unlike reported performance it cannot be statements, by their nature, involve risks and derived directly from the information in the Groups uncertainties and may be influenced by factors Financial Statements.
This measure is adjusted to that could cause actual outcomes and results to exclude certain significant items, such as charges Designed by Addison Corporate Marketing Limited.
