FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 171 INFoRmAl uS SECuRITIES ANd ExChANgE CommISSIoN SEC INquIRy In October 2006, AstraZeneca received from the SEC a letter requesting documents related to its business activities in Italy, Croatia, Russia and Slovakia for the period 1 October 2003 to the present.
The SECs request generally seeks documents concerning any payments to doctors or government officials and related internal accounting controls.
The request also seeks policies, correspondence, audits and other documents concerning compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as any allegations or communications with prosecutors offices relating to corruption or bribery of doctors or government officials.
AstraZeneca has produced documents in response to this request.
It is not currently possible to predict the outcome of this inquiry.
ANTI-TRuST In January 2008 AstraZeneca, together with several other companies, was the subject of an unannounced inspection simultaneous with the launch by the EU Commission Commission of a Sectoral Inquiry Inquiry into the pharmaceutical industry.
The Inquiry relates to the introduction of innovative and generic medicines and covers commercial and other practices, including the use of patents.
On 28 November 2008 the Commission published its preliminary report.
The report does not identify wrongdoing by any individual companies but is stated to provide a factual basis for further consideration.
The Commission has stated that it will commence individual investigations where there are indications that competition rules have been breached.
The preliminary report focuses on a number of issues relating to competition in the EU, referring to strategies which the Commission believes pharmaceutical companies use to block or delay generic entry.
Such strategies include: patent filings and enforcement: patent settlement agreements and other agreements: interventions before national regulatory authorities: and life-cycle management strategies.
A final report is expected in Spring 2009.
AstraZeneca has been co-operating fully with the Commission and participating in European Federation for Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations activities.
oThER The Company has guaranteed the external borrowing of a subsidiary, in the amount of $288m.
8 STATuToRy ANd oThER INFoRmATIoN There are no employees of the Company 2007: nil.
The Directors of the Company were paid by another Group company in 2008 and 2007.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008
