Financial statements Financial statements of BT Group plc BT Group plc accounting policies vi Cash i Accounting basis Cash includes cash in hand, bank deposits repayable on demand The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and bank overdrafts.
and under the historical cost convention as modied by the revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value vii Share based payments in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable The company does not incur a charge for share based payments.
United Kingdom accounting standards UK GAAP.
However the issuance by the company of share options and As permitted by Section 230 3 of the Companies Act 1985, awards to employees of its subsidiaries represents additional the companys profit and loss account has not been presented.
capital contributions to its subsidiaries.
An addition to the The BT Group plc consolidated financial statements for the companys investment in subsidiaries is recorded with a year ended 31 March 2008 contain a consolidated statement of corresponding increase in equity shareholders funds.
Consequently, the company has taken advantage of additional capital contribution is determined based on the fair the exemption in FRS 1, Cash Flow Statements not to present value of options and awards at the date of grant and is its own cash ow statement.
recognised over the vesting period.
The BT Group plc consolidated financial statements for the Other information year ended 31 March 2008 contain related party disclosures.
Consequently, the company has taken advantage of the i Dividends exemption in FRS 8, Related Party Disclosures not to disclose The directors are proposing that a final dividend in respect of transactions with other members of the BT Group.
the year ended 31 March 2008 of 10.4 pence will be paid to The BT Group plc consolidated financial statements for the shareholders on 15 September 2008, taking the full year year ended 31 March 2008 contain financial instrument proposed dividend in respect of the 2008 financial year to 15.8 disclosures which comply with FRS 29, Financial Instruments: pence 2007: 15.1 pence.
This dividend is subject to Disclosures.
Consequently, the company is exempted by FRS 29 shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting and from providing its disclosure requirements in respect of its therefore the liability of approximately 805 million 2007: financial instruments.
825 million has not been included in these financial statements.
ii Investments in subsidiary undertakings Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost and ii Employees reviewed for impairment if there are indicators that the carrying The four 2007: five executive directors and the Chairman of BT value may not be recoverable.
Group plc were the only employees of the company during the 2008 financial year.
The costs relating to qualifying services iii Taxation provided to the companys principal subsidiary, British Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all timing Telecommunications plc, are recharged to that company.
differences which have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that there will be sufficient taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
The deferred tax balances are not discounted.
iv Dividends Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the year in which the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid: final dividends when authorised in general meetings by shareholders.
v Share capital Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Repurchased shares of the company are recorded in the balance sheet as treasury shares and presented as a deduction from shareholders equity at cost.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 141 Financial statements
