Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies iii Revenue Accounting policies Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received i Basis of preparation of the financial or receivable for communication services and equipment sales, statements net of discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue from the rendering of These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in services and sale of equipment is recognised when it is probable accordance with applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the EU that the economic benets associated with a transaction will and as issued by the IASB.
The financial statements have been ow to the group and the amount of revenue and the prepared under the historical cost convention, modied for the associated costs can be measured reliably.
Where the group acts revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value.
as agent in a transaction it recognises revenue net of directly The preparation of financial statements in conformity with attributable costs.
IFRS requires the use of accounting estimates.
It also requires Revenue arising from separable installation and connection management to exercise its judgement in the process of services is recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
applying the groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a Revenue from the rental of analogue and digital lines and higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where private circuits is recognised evenly over the period to which the assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated charges relate.
Revenue from calls is recognised at the time the financial statements, are disclosed below in Critical accounting call is made over the groups network.
Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges for The groups income statement and segmental analysis access to broadband and other internet access or voice services, separately identies trading results before significant one-off or are recognised as revenue as the service is provided.
Revenue unusual items termed specic items.
This is consistent with arising from the interconnection of voice and data trafc the way that financial performance is measured by management between other telecommunications operators is recognised at and assists in providing a meaningful analysis of the trading the time of transit across the groups network.
The directors believe that presentation of Revenue from the sale of peripheral and other equipment is the groups results in this way is relevant to an understanding of recognised when all the significant risks and rewards of the groups financial performance as specic items are significant ownership are transferred to the buyer, which is normally the one-off or unusual in nature and have little predictive value.
date the equipment is delivered and accepted by the customer.
Furthermore, the group consider a columnar presentation to be Revenue from long-term contractual arrangements is appropriate as it improves the clarity of the presentation and is recognised based on the percentage of completion method.
The consistent with the way that financial performance is measured stage of completion is estimated using an appropriate measure and reported to the Board of directors.
Specic items may not according to the nature of the contract.
For long-term services be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other contracts revenue is recognised on a straight line basis over the companies.
Items which have been considered significant oneterm of the contract.
However, if the performance pattern is off or unusual in nature include disposals of businesses and other than straight line, revenue is recognised as services are investments, business restructuring, asset impairment charges provided, usually on an output or consumption basis.
For xed and property rationalisation programmes.
The directors intend to price contracts, including contracts to design and build software follow such a presentation on a consistent basis in the future.
solutions, revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of Specic items for the current and prior years are disclosed in completion, as determined by the proportion of costs incurred note 4. relative to the estimated total contract costs, or other measures Accounting policies in respect of the parent company, BT of completion such as contract milestone customer acceptance.
Group plc, are set out on page 141.
These are in accordance In the case of time and materials contracts, revenue is with UK GAAP.
recognised as the service is rendered.
Costs related to delivering services under long-term ii Basis of consolidation contractual arrangements are expensed as incurred.
An element The group financial statements consolidate the financial of costs incurred in the initial set up, transition or statements of BT Group plc the company and entities transformation phase of the contract are deferred and recorded controlled by the company its subsidiaries and incorporate its within non current assets.
These costs are then recognised in the share of the results of jointly controlled entities joint ventures income statement on a straight line basis over the remaining and associates using the equity method of accounting.
contractual term, unless the pattern of service delivery indicates The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the a different prole is appropriate.
These costs are directly year are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition or attributable to specic contracts, relate to future activity, will up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where generate future economic benets and are assessed for necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of recoverability on a regular basis.
subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to bring the The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of accounting policies used in line with those used by the group.
total expected contract revenues and costs, as well as reliable All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are measurement of the progress made towards completion.
the financial outcome of a contract can be estimated with Investments in associates and joint ventures are initially reasonable certainty, no attributable profit is recognised.
In such recognised at cost.
Subsequent to acquisition the carrying value circumstances, revenue is recognised equal to the costs incurred of the groups investment in associates and joint ventures to date, to the extent that such revenue is expected to be includes the groups share of post acquisition reserves, less any recoverable.
Recognised revenue and profits are subject to impairment in the value of individual assets.
The income revisions during the contract if the assumptions regarding the statement reects the groups share of the results of operations overall contract outcome are changed.
The cumulative impact of after tax of the associate or joint venture.
a revision in estimates is recorded in the period in which such The groups principal operating subsidiaries and associate are revisions become likely and can be estimated.
Where the actual detailed on page 144. and estimated costs to completion exceed the estimated revenue 88 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F for a contract, the full contract life loss is immediately results of foreign undertakings are translated into Sterling at recognised.
average rates of exchange for the year unless this average is Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effects of the separate elements that have value to a customer on a rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income standalone basis, revenue is recognised for each element as if it and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions.
The total contract consideration is Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are allocated between the separate elements on the basis of relative recognised directly in a separate component of equity, the fair value and the appropriate revenue recognition criteria translation reserve.
applied to each element as described above.
In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency, the cumulative iv Other operating income translation difference associated with the undertaking in the Other operating income is income generated by the group that translation reserve is charged or credited to the gain or loss on arises from activities outside of the provision of communication disposal.
Items reported as other operating income include such items as profits and losses on disposal of vii Business combinations property, plant and equipment, income generated by our eet The purchase method of accounting is used for the acquisition operations, repayment works and income from the exploitation of subsidiaries, in accordance with IFRS 3, Business of our intellectual property.
On transition to IFRSs, the group elected not to apply IFRS 3 retrospectively to acquisitions that occurred before v Leases 1 April 2004.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a which occurred between 1 January 1998 and 1 April 2004 is lease, is based on the substance of the arrangement and therefore included in the balance sheet at original cost, less requires an assessment of whether the fullment of the accumulated amortisation to the date of transition and any arrangement is dependent on the use of a specic asset or provisions for impairment.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of assets and whether the arrangement conveys the right to use a subsidiary which occurred prior to 1 January 1998 was written the asset.
off directly to retained earnings.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group On acquisition of a subsidiary, fair values are attributed to the holds substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are identiable net assets acquired.
The excess of the cost of the classied as finance leases.
acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the Finance lease assets are capitalised at the commencement of identiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the the lease term at the lower of the present value of the minimum cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the groups lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset.
The share of the identiable net assets acquired, the difference is obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in recognised directly in the income statement.
On disposal of a respect of future periods, are recognised as liabilities.
Leases are subsidiary, the gain or loss on disposal includes the carrying subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective amount of goodwill relating to the subsidiary sold.
If a sale and leaseback transaction results in a previously written off to retained earnings is not recycled to the finance lease, any excess of sale proceeds over the carrying income statement on disposal of the related subsidiary.
amount is deferred and recognised in the income statement over the lease term.
viii Intangible assets Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are Identiable intangible assets are recognised when the group held by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Rentals are controls the asset, it is probable that future economic benets charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over attributable to the asset will ow to the group and the cost of the period of the lease.
If a sale and leaseback transaction the asset can be reliably measured.
All intangible assets, other results in an operating lease, any profit or loss is recognised in than goodwill and indefinite lived assets, are amortised over the income statement immediately.
The method of amortisation reects the pattern in which the assets are expected to be consumed.
If vi Foreign currencies the pattern cannot be determined reliably, the straight line Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups method is used.
subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the Goodwill functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over presented in Sterling, the presentation currency of the group.
the fair value of the groups share of the identiable net assets Foreign currency transactions are translated into the including intangible assets of the acquired subsidiary.
Goodwill functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses accumulated impairment losses.
resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in Telecommunication licences foreign currencies at period end exchange rates are recognised Licence fees paid to governments, which permit telecommunication activities to be operated for dened periods, in the income statement in the line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
Where monetary are initially recorded at cost and amortised from the time the items form part of the net investment in a foreign operation and network is available for use to the end of the licence period.
are designated as hedges of a net investment or as cash ow hedges, such exchange differences are initially recognised in Brands, customer lists and customer relationships equity.
Intangible assets acquired through business combinations are On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign undertakings recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Assumptions are are translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates.
The used in estimating the fair values of acquired intangible assets BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 89 Financial statements Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies and include managements estimates of revenue and profits to The lives assigned to principal categories of assets are as follows: be generated by the acquired businesses.
"Land and buildings "" Computer software Freehold buildings 40 years Computer software comprises computer software purchased from Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of lease third parties, and also the cost of internally developed software."
or 40 years, whichever is Computer software purchased from third parties is initially the shorter recorded at cost.
"Network infrastructure and equipment "" Transmission equipment: Subscriber acquisition costs Duct 40 years Subscriber acquisition costs are expensed as incurred, unless they Cable 3 to 25 years meet the criteria for capitalisation, in which case they are Radio and repeater equipment 2 to 25 years capitalised and amortised over the shorter of the customer life or contractual period."
"Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years Payphones other network equipment 2 to 20 years Estimated useful economic lives The estimated useful economic lives assigned to the principal Other "" categories of intangible assets are as follows: Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years Computers and ofce equipment 3 to 6 years Telecommunication licences 1 to 5 years "" Brands, customer lists and customer relationships 3 to 15 years "" Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter Computer software 2 to 5 years "" of the lease term or their useful economic life."
Residual values and useful lives are re-assessed annually and if necessary ix Research and development changes are recognised prospectively.
Research expenditure is recognised in the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
xi Borrowing costs Development expenditure, including the cost of internally All borrowing costs are expensed in the income statement in the developed software, is recognised in the income statement in period in which they are incurred.
the period in which it is incurred unless it is probable that economic benets will ow to the group from the asset being xii Asset impairment non financial assets developed, the cost of the asset can be reliably measured and Intangible assets with nite useful lives and property, plant and technical feasibility can be demonstrated.
Capitalisation ceases equipment are tested for impairment if events or changes in when the asset being developed is ready for use.
circumstances assessed at each reporting date indicate that the Research and development costs include direct labour, carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When an impairment contractors charges, materials and directly attributable test is performed, the recoverable amount is assessed by overheads.
reference to the higher of the net present value of expected future cash ows value in use of the relevant cash generating x Property, plant and equipment unit and the fair value less cost to sell.
Property, plant and equipment is included in the balance sheet Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are at historical cost, less accumulated depreciation and any tested for impairment at least annually.
If a cash generating unit is impaired, provision is made to On disposal of property, plant and equipment, the difference reduce the carrying amount of the related assets to their between the sale proceeds and the net book value at the date estimated recoverable amount, normally as a specic item.
of disposal is recorded in the income statement.
Impairment losses are allocated rstly against goodwill, and secondly on a pro rata basis against intangible and other assets.
Cost Where an impairment loss is recognised against an asset it Included within the cost for network infrastructure and may be reversed in future periods where there has been a equipment are direct labour, contractors charges, materials, change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable payments on account and directly attributable overheads.
amount since the last impairment loss was recognised, except in respect of impairment of goodwill which may not be reversed in Depreciation any circumstances.
Depreciation is provided on property, plant and equipment on a straight line basis from the time the asset is available for use, so xiii Inventory as to write off the assets cost over the estimated useful life Inventory mainly comprises items of equipment held for sale or taking into account any expected residual value.
Freehold land is rental and consumable items.
Equipment held and consumable items are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value, after provisions for obsolescence.
Cost is calculated on a first-in-first-out basis.
xiv Termination benets Termination benets leaver costs are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benets.
The group recognises termination benets 90 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F when it is demonstrably committed to the affected employees Deferred tax liabilities are offset against deferred tax assets leaving the group.
within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax group.
Any remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the xv Post retirement benets basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable The group operates a funded dened benefit pension plan, that there will be suitable taxable profits, within the same which is administered by an independent trustee, for the jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future against which the majority of its employees.
deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
The groups net obligation in respect of dened benefit Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected pension plans is calculated separately for each scheme by to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or liability estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or earned in return for their service to date.
That benefit is substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on any plan assets is deducted.
The discount rate used is the yield investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can maturity dates approximating the terms of the groups be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualied actuary will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
using the projected unit credit method.
The net obligation Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the statement, except when the tax relates to items charged or dened benefit obligation less the fair value of the plan assets.
credited directly in equity, in which case the tax is also The income statement charge is allocated between an recognised in equity.
operating charge and a net finance charge.
The operating charge reects the service cost which is spread systematically xviii Advertising and marketing over the working lives of the employees.
The net finance charge The costs associated with the groups advertising and marketing reects the unwinding of the discount applied to the liabilities activities are expensed within other operating costs as incurred.
of the plan, offset by the expected return on the assets of the plan, based on conditions prevailing at the start of the year.
xix Dividends Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the year in which in which they occur and are presented in the statement of they are declared and approved by the companys shareholders recognised income and expense.
Interim dividends are recognised when they Actuarial valuations of the main dened benefit plan are are paid.
carried out by an independent actuary as determined by the trustees at intervals of not more than three years, to determine xx Provisions the rates of contribution payable.
The pension cost is Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or determined on the advice of the groups actuary, having regard constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely to the results of these trustee valuations.
In any intervening than not that an outow of resources will be required to settle years, the actuaries review the continuing appropriateness of the the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Financial liabilities within provisions are initially recognised at The group also operates dened contribution pension schemes fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the and the income statement is charged with the contributions effective interest method.
Provisions are discounted to present payable.
value where the effect is material.
Certain comparative amounts have been adjusted to conform xvi Share based payments with the presentation adopted in 2008, resulting in a The group has a number of employee share schemes, share reclassication of 45 million from other payables to nonoption and award plans under which it makes equity settled current provisions.
share based payments to employees.
The fair value of options and awards granted is recognised as an employee expense after xxi Financial instruments taking into account the groups best estimate of the number of Recognition and derecognition of financial assets and awards expected to vest allowing for non market and service financial liabilities conditions.
Fair value is measured at the date of grant and is Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the spread over the vesting period of the award.
The fair value of group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the options and awards granted is measured using either the instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when the group no Binomial or Monte Carlo model, whichever is most appropriate longer has rights to cash ows, the risks and rewards of to the award.
Any proceeds received are credited to share ownership or control of the asset.
Financial liabilities are capital and share premium when the options are exercised.
The derecognised when the obligation under the liability is group has applied IFRS 2 Share based payment retrospectively discharged, cancelled or expires.
In particular, for all regular way to all options and awards granted after 7 November 2002 and purchases and sales of financial assets, the group recognises the not fully vested at 1 January 2005. financial assets on the settlement date, which is the date on which the asset is delivered to or by the group.
xvii Taxation Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is Financial assets provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using Financial assets at fair value through income statement the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially A financial asset is classied in this category if acquired enacted by the balance sheet date.
principally for the purpose of selling in the short term held for Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability method, in trading or if so designated by management.
Financial assets respect of temporary differences between the carrying amount held in this category are initially recognised and subsequently of the groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
measured at fair value, with changes in value recognised in the BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 91 Financial statements Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies income statement in the line which most appropriately reects Where there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has the nature of the item or transaction.
arisen on assets carried at amortised cost, the carrying amount is reduced with the loss being recognised in the income statement.
Loans and receivables The impairment loss is measured as the difference between that Loans and receivables are non derivative financial assets with assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active future cash ows discounted at the financial assets original market other than: effective interest rate.
"The impairment loss is only reversed if it can be related objectively to an event after the impairment was those that the group intends to sell immediately or in the "" recognised and is reversed to the extent the carrying value of short term, which are classied as held for trading: the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the date of "" those for which the group may not recover substantially all of reversal."
its initial investment, other than because of credit If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount deterioration, which are classied as available-for-sale.
comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its fair value is transferred from Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus equity to the income statement.
Reversals of impairment losses transaction costs and subsequently carried at amortised cost on debt instruments are taken through the income statement if using the effective interest method, with changes in carrying the increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively value recognised in the income statement in the line which most related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
recognised in the income statement.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classied as available-for-sale are not Available-for-sale financial assets recognised in the income statement.
Non-derivative financial assets classied as available-for-sale are If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has either specically designated in this category or not classied in been incurred on an unquoted equity instrument that is not any of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets carried at fair value because its fair value cannot be objectively are carried at fair value, with unrealised gains and losses except measured, or on a derivative asset that is linked to and must be for changes in exchange rates for monetary items, interest, settled by delivery of such an unquoted equity instrument, the dividends and impairment losses which are recognised in the amount of loss is measured as the difference between the income statement are recognised in equity until the financial assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated asset is derecognised, at which time the cumulative gain or loss future cash ows discounted at the current market rate of return previously recognised in equity is taken to the income for a similar financial asset.
statement, in the line that most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
Financial liabilities Trade and other payables Trade and other receivables Financial liabilities within trade and other payables are initially Financial assets within trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced amount, and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the amount and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
effective interest method less provisions made for doubtful receivables.
Loans and other borrowings Provisions are made specically where there is objective Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at fair value evidence of a dispute or an inability to pay.
An additional plus directly attributable transaction costs.
Where loans and provision is made based on an analysis of balances by age, other borrowings contain a separable embedded derivative, the previous losses experienced and general economic conditions.
fair value of the embedded derivative is the difference between the fair value of the hybrid instrument and the fair value of the Cash and cash equivalents loan or borrowing.
The fair value of the embedded derivative Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current and the loan or borrowing is recorded separately on initial balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily recognition.
Loans and other borrowings are subsequently convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method insignicant risk of changes in value and have an original and if included in a fair value hedge relationship are revalued to maturity of three months or less.
reect the fair value movements on the hedged risk associated For the purpose of the consolidated cash ow statement, cash with the loans and other borrowings.
The resultant amortisation and cash equivalents are as dened above net of outstanding of fair value movements are recognised in the income bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are included within loans and statement.
other borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
In the 2008 financial year, the group reclassied certain Financial guarantees investments within cash equivalents to current available-for-sale Financial guarantees are recognised initially at fair value plus assets as management considered this to be the more transaction costs and subsequently measured at the higher of appropriate maturity classication.
The reclassication as at the amount determined in accordance with the accounting 31 March 2007 was 267 million.
The equivalent balance at policy relating to provisions and the amount initially determined 31 March 2008 reported within available-for-sale assets was less, when appropriate, cumulative amortisation.
Derivative financial instruments Impairment of financial assets The group uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a exposure to foreign exchange risks and interest rate movements.
financial asset or group of financial assets are impaired.
The group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not 92 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading changes in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is instruments.
attributable to the hedged risk.
Derivative financial instruments are classied as held for trading and initially recognised at cost.
Subsequent to initial Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation recognition, derivative financial instruments are stated at fair Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of currency value.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is instruments designated as hedges of net investments in a recognised immediately in the income statement in net finance foreign operation are taken to shareholders equity on expense.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge consolidation to the extent the hedges are deemed effective.
accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on Any ineffectiveness arising on a hedge of a net investment in the nature of the hedge.
Derivative financial instruments are a foreign operation is recognised in net finance expense.
classied as current assets or current liabilities where they are not designated in a hedging relationship or have a maturity Discontinuance of hedge accounting period within 12 months.
Where derivative financial instruments Discontinuance of hedge accounting may occur when a hedging have a maturity period greater than 12 months and are instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge designated in a hedge relationship, they are classied within no longer qualies for hedge accounting or the group revokes either non current assets or non current liabilities.
designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged financial Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other asset or liability remains or a highly probable transaction is still host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risk expected to occur.
Under a cash ow hedge the cumulative gain and characteristics are not closely related to those of host or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in contracts and host contracts are not carried at fair value.
accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If Changes in the fair value of embedded derivatives are the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place or recognised in the income statement in the line which most the underlying hedged financial asset or liability no longer exists, appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Under a hedge Hedge accounting of a net investment, the cumulative gain or loss remains in To qualify for hedge accounting, hedge documentation must be equity when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, prepared at inception and the hedge must be expected to be terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer qualies for hedge highly effective both prospectively and retrospectively.
The accounting or the group revokes designation of the hedge hedge is tested for effectiveness at inception and in subsequent relationship.
The cumulative gain or loss is recognised in the periods in which the hedge remains in operation.
income statement as part of the profit on disposal when the net investment in the foreign operation is disposed.
Under a fair Cash ow hedge value hedge the cumulative gain or loss adjustment associated When a financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the with the hedged risk is amortised to the income statement using variability in cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or a the effective interest method over the remaining term of the highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss hedged item.
on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
Share capital For cash ow hedges of recognised assets or liabilities, the Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Incremental costs directly associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a recognised in the same line in the income statement in the same deduction from the proceeds received.
Shares in the parent period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects company, BT Group plc, held by employee share ownership the income statement.
trusts and repurchased shares are recorded in the balance sheet For highly probable transactions, when the transaction as a deduction from shareholders equity at cost.
subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset Critical accounting estimates or non-financial liability the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or carrying and key judgements amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs If a hedge of a highly probable transaction subsequently requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
It results in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial also requires management to exercise its judgement in the liability, then the associated gains and losses that were process of applying the groups accounting policies.
We recognised directly in equity are reclassied into the income continually evaluate our estimates, assumptions and judgements statement in the same period or periods during which the asset based on available information and experience.
As the use of acquired or liability assumed affects the income statement.
estimates is inherent in financial reporting, actual results could Any ineffectiveness arising on a cash ow hedge of a differ from these estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree recognised asset or liability is recognised immediately in the of judgement or complexity are described below.
same income statement line as the hedged item.
Where ineffectiveness arises on highly probable transactions, it is Long-term customer contracts recognised in the line which most appropriately reects the Long-term customer contracts can extend over a number of nature of the item or transaction.
During the contractual period, revenue, costs and profits may be impacted by estimates of the ultimate Fair value hedge profitability of each contract.
If, at any time, these estimates When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge indicate the contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated of the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or loss for the contract is recognised immediately.
The group unrecognised rm commitment, the change in fair value of the performs ongoing profitability reviews of its contracts in order to derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges are recorded determine whether the latest estimates are appropriate.
Key in the same line in the income statement, together with any factors reviewed include transaction volumes, or other inputs for BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 93 Financial statements Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies which we get paid, future staff and third party costs and laws and regulations is unclear, we use estimates in determining anticipated cost productivity, savings and efficiencies.
the liability for the tax to be paid on our past profits which we recognise in our financial statements.
We believe the estimates, Providing for doubtful debts assumptions and judgements are reasonable but this can involve BT provides services to around 16 million individuals and complex issues which may take a number of years to resolve.
businesses, mainly on credit terms.
We know that certain debts The final determination of prior year tax liabilities could be due to us will not be paid through the default of a small different from the estimates reected in the financial number of our customers.
Estimates, based on our historical statements.
experience are used in determining the level of debts that we believe will not be collected.
These estimates include such Deferred tax factors as the current state of the economy and particular Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management industry issues.
judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, judgement is used when assessing the extent to which Interconnect income and payments to other deferred tax assets should be recognised with consideration telecommunications operators given to the timing and level of future taxable income.
In certain instances, BT relies on other operators to measure the trafc ows interconnecting with our networks.
Estimates are Goodwill used in these cases to determine the amount of income The recoverable amount of cash generating units has been receivable from or payments we need to make to these other determined based on value in use calculations.
The prices at which these services are charged are require the use of estimates, including managements often regulated and are subject to retrospective adjustment and expectations of future revenue growth, operating costs and estimates are used in assessing the likely effect of these profit margins for each cash generating unit.
Determination of fair values Pension obligations Certain financial instruments such as investments, derivative BT has a commitment, mainly through the BT Pension Scheme, financial instruments and certain elements of loans and to pay pension benets to approximately 350,000 people over borrowings, are carried on the balance sheet at fair value, with more than 60 years.
The cost of these benets and the present changes in fair value reected in the income statement.
Fair value of our pension liabilities depend on such factors as the life values are estimated by reference in part to published price expectancy of the members, the salary progression of our quotations and in part by using valuation techniques.
current employees, the return that the pension fund assets will generate in the time before they are used to fund the pension Accounting standards, interpretations and payments and the rate at which the future pension payments amendments to published standards are discounted.
We use estimates for all these factors in determining the pension costs and liabilities incorporated in our adopted in the year ended 31 March 2008 financial statements.
The assumptions reect historical During the year the following standards, interpretations and experience and our judgement regarding future expectations.
"amendments to published standards, which are relevant to the groups operations became effective and were adopted: Useful lives for property, plant and equipment IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRS 7 "" The plant and equipment in BTs networks is long lived with Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements cables and switching equipment operating for over ten years and "" Capital Disclosures Amendment to IAS 1 underground ducts being used for decades."
"The annual depreciation charge is sensitive to the estimated service lives IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2 "" allocated to each type of asset."
"Asset lives are assessed annually IFRIC 9, Reassessment of embedded derivatives "" and changed when necessary to reect current thinking on their remaining lives in light of technological change, network IFRIC 10, Interim financial reporting and impairment "" investment plans including the groups 21CN transformation IFRIC 11, IFRS 2, Group and treasury share transactions "" programme, prospective economic utilisation and physical condition of the assets concerned."
Changes to service lives of assets implemented from 1 April 2007 in aggregate had no The adoption of these standards has not had a significant impact significant impact on the results for the year ended 31 March on the groups financial position or results of operations.
The 2008. adoption of IFRS 7 and the amendment to IAS 1 has resulted in additional disclosures in the groups annual report and Form Property arrangements 20-F. As part of the property rationalisation programme, we have identied a number of surplus properties.
Although efforts are being made to sub-let this space, it is recognised that this may not be possible immediately in the current economic environment.
Estimates have been made of the cost of vacant possession and any shortfall arising from the sub lease rental income being lower than the lease costs being borne by BT.
Any such cost or shortfall has been recognised as a provision.
Income tax The actual tax we pay on our profits is determined according to complex tax laws and regulations.
Where the effect of these 94 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Accounting standards, interpretation and Amendment to IAS 23, Borrowing Costs effective from amendments to published standards not yet 1 April 2009 effective The amendment to IAS 23 eliminates the option to expense Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to borrowing costs attributable to the acquisition, construction or existing standards have been published that are mandatory for production of a qualifying asset as incurred.
As a result, the the groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April group will be required to capitalise such borrowing costs as part 2008 or later periods, but which the group has not adopted of the cost of that asset.
The group is currently assessing the early.
Those which are relevant to the groups operations are as impact of the amendment upon the results and net assets of the follows: group.
IFRS 2, Share based payments vesting conditions and IAS 27 Revised, Consolidated and separate financial cancellations, effective from 1 April 2009 statements effective from 1 April 2010 The amendment to IFRS 2 restricts the denition of a vesting IAS 27 Revised requires the effects of all transactions with non condition to a condition that includes an explicit or implicit controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no requirement to provide services.
Any other conditions are nonchange in control.
Such transactions will no longer result in vesting conditions, which have to be taken into account to goodwill or gains or losses being recorded.
IAS 27 Revised also determine the fair value of the equity instruments granted.
In species that when control is lost, any remaining interest should the case that the award does not vest as the result of a failure be re-measured to fair value and a gain or loss recorded to meet a non-vesting condition that is within the control of through the income statement.
The group has assessed the either the group or the counterparty, this must be accounted for impact of this interpretation and concluded it is not likely to as a cancellation.
The group is currently assessing the potential have a significant impact on the groups financial statements.
impact of this amendment upon the results and net assets of the group.
IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements effective from 1 April 2008 IFRS 3 Revised, Business Combinations effective from IFRIC 12 addresses the accounting by operators of public-private 1 April 2010 service concession arrangements.
The group has assessed the IFRS 3 Revised amends certain aspects of accounting for impact of this interpretation and has concluded it is not likely to business combinations set out in IFRS 3.
Amendments include have a significant impact on the groups financial statements.
the requirement to expense all transaction costs as incurred and the requirement for all payments to acquire a business to be IFRIC 13, Customer loyalty programmes effective from recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with some 1 April 2009 contingent payments subsequently re-measured at fair value IFRIC 13 claries that where goods and services are sold through the income statement.
IFRS 3 Revised is applicable together with a customer loyalty incentive, the arrangement is a prospectively to business combinations effected on or after the multiple element arrangement and the consideration receivable effective date.
The group is currently assessing the potential from the customer should be allocated between the components impact of this amendment upon the results and net assets of the of the arrangement in proportion to their fair values.
has assessed the impact of this interpretation and has concluded it is not likely to have a significant impact on the groups IFRS 8, Operating Segments effective from 1 April 2009 financial statements.
IFRS 8 requires the identication of operating segments based on internal reporting to the chief operating decision maker and IFRIC 14, Dened benefit assets and minimum funding extends the scope and disclosure requirements of IAS 14 requirements effective from 1 April 2008 Segmental Reporting.
The group is currently assessing the IFRIC 14 provides guidance on assessing the limit in IAS 19, impact of IFRS 8 on its segmental analysis disclosure.
Employee Benets, on the amount of surplus that can be recognised as an asset.
It also explains how the pension asset or IAS 1 Revised, Presentation of financial statements liability may be affected by a contractual minimum funding effective from 1 April 2009 requirement.
The group has assessed the impact of this IAS 1 Revised prescribes the basis for presentation of financial interpretation and has concluded it is not likely to have a statements to ensure comparability both with the entitys significant impact on the groups financial statements.
financial statements of previous periods and with the financial statements of other entities.
IAS 1 Revised introduces a number of changes to the requirements for the presentation of financial statements, which include the following: the separate presentation and owner and non-owner changes in equity: requirement for entities making restatements or reclassications of comparative information to present a balance sheet as at the beginning of the comparative period and optional name changes for certain of the primary statements.
The group is currently assessing the impact of the revision on the presentation of its financial statements.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 95 Financial statements
