Consolidated Consolidated nan financial cial statements statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Segmental analysis Primary reporting format business segments The groups principal activities include: the provision of networked IT services: local, national and international telecommunications services: broadband and internet products and services: and converged xed mobile products and services.
The group is organised into four customer-facing lines of business, BT Global Services, BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach, which are supported by two internal functional units, BT Operate and BT Design.
The activities of each of the customer facing lines of business are as follows: BT Global Services serves major corporate and carrier organisations across the world providing high-performance managed networked IT services, application management, professional services and outsourcing solutions.
BT Retail serves consumer customers and small and medium sized enterprises SMEs in the UK, providing a range of innovative communications products and services.
BT Retail also includes BT Ireland, which operates across the major corporate, SME, consumer and wholesale markets throughout the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, and Enterprises, which comprises a number of individual businesses such as BT Conferencing, BT Directories and BT Payphones.
BT Wholesale provides services to UK communications providers through a diverse portfolio ranging from nationally available broadband, voice and data connectivity services and interconnect to bespoke, fully managed network outsourcing and value added solutions.
Openreach is responsible for the crucial first mile connecting communications provider customers to their local telephone exchange, giving them open and economic access to the UK network.
Openreach products are sold on an equivalent basis to BT lines of business and other communications providers at the same arms length prices, with the BT lines of business being treated no differently than any other customer with regard to terms and conditions or acccess to systems and data.
Business transformation With effect from 1 October 2007, the group changed the presentation of its financial results to reect the reorganisation of the business that has taken place in 2008.
The segment results for 2007 and 2006 have therefore been restated to provide a consistent presentation for all years.
The reorganisation has not impacted overall group results.
The new organisational structure is based around two new internal functional units, namely BT Design and BT Operate.
BT Design and BT Operate support the existing four customer facing lines of business.
BT Design is responsible for the development and deployment of the platforms, systems and processes which support our services and BT Operate is responsible for their operation.
Neither BT Design nor BT Operate are reportable segments, and the reportable segments continue to be the customer facing lines of business.
Neither BT Design nor BT Operate generate any revenue and both operate on a cost recovery basis.
The costs incurred by BT Design and BT Operate are allocated to the customer facing lines of business in line with the services they provide.
The depreciation and amortisation incurred by BT Operate in relation to the networks and systems they manage and operate on behalf of the customer facing lines of business are allocated to the lines of business based on their expected utilisation.
The assets managed by BT Operate and their capital expenditure in the year are also allocated to the lines of business in a manner consistent with the depreciation and amortisation.
Accordingly, the segmental results do not necessarily reect the operating results of the lines of business as if they were independent business operations.
The historical results of the lines of business have changed, however, reecting changes to the structure of intra-group trading arrangements and the allocation of costs between the lines of business.
The main change to the intra-group trading arrangements is that a significant amount of intra-group trading has been eliminated.
The exception to this is Openreach as trading between Openreach and the other customer facing lines of business has not been impacted by the groups reorganisation.
Intra-group revenue generated from the sale of regulated products and services is based on the market price.
Intra-group revenue generated from the sale of other products and services is agreed between the relevant lines of business.
In addition to the four customer facing lines of business, the remaining operations of the group are aggregated and included within the other category to reconcile to the consolidated results of the group.
Included within other is any over or under recovery of costs by BT Design and BT Operate, as well as the other group functions and operations.
Unallocated assets include cash and cash equivalents, deferred and current taxation, investments, derivatives, associates and joint ventures and the retirement benefit asset.
Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables and provisions.
Unallocated liabilities include current and deferred taxation, retirement benefit obligations, finance lease liabilities, corporate borrowings and related derivatives.
The analysis of revenue by geographical area is on the basis of the country of origin of the customer invoice.
In an analysis of revenue by destination, incoming and transit international calls would be treated differently, but would not lead to a materially different geographical analysis.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 103 Financial statements
