Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 32.
Audit and non audit services continued In order to maintain the independence of the external auditors, the Board has determined policies as to what non audit services can be provided by the companys external auditors and the approval processes related to them.
Under those policies work of a consultancy nature will not be offered to the external auditors unless there are clear efficiencies and value added benets to the company.
Financial instruments and risk management The group issues or holds financial instruments mainly to finance its operations: to finance corporate transactions such as dividends, share buy backs and acquisitions: for the temporary investment of short-term funds: and to manage the currency and interest rate risks arising from its operations and from its sources of finance.
In addition, various financial instruments, for example trade receivables and trade payables, arise directly from the groups operations.
The group nances its operations primarily by a mixture of issued share capital, retained profits, deferred taxation, long-term and short-term loans, principally by issuing commercial paper supported by committed borrowing facilities.
The group borrows in the major long-term debt markets in major currencies.
Typically, but not exclusively, the bond markets provide the most cost-effective means of long-term borrowing.
The group uses derivative financial instruments primarily to manage its exposure to market risks from changes in interest and foreign exchange rates against these borrowings.
The derivatives used for this purpose are principally interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and forward currency contracts.
The group also uses financial instruments to hedge some of its currency exposures arising from funding its overseas operations, acquisitions, overseas assets, liabilities and forward purchase commitments.
The financial instruments used comprise borrowings in foreign currencies and forward currency contracts.
The group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
All transactions in derivative financial instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business activities.
The group has a centralised treasury operation whose primary role is to manage liquidity, funding, investment and counterparty credit risk and the groups market risk exposures, including risk from volatility in currency and interest rates.
The centralised treasury operation acts as a central bank to members of the BT Group providing central deposit taking, funding and foreign exchange management services.
Funding and deposit taking is usually provided in the functional currency of the relevant entity.
The centralised treasury operation is not a profit centre and the objective is to manage risk at optimum cost.
The Board sets the policy for the groups centralised treasury operation and its activities are subject to a set of controls commensurate with the magnitude of the borrowings and investments and group wide exposures under its management.
The Board has delegated its authority to operate these polices to a series of panels that are responsible for management of key treasury risks and operations.
Appointment to and removal from the key panels requires approval from two of the Chairman, the Chief Executive or the Group Finance Director.
The key policies dened by the Board are highlighted in each of the sections below.
The financial risk management of exposures arising from trading financial instruments, primarily trade receivables and trade payables, is through a series of policies and procedures set at a group and line of business level.
Line of business management apply such policies and procedures and perform review processes to assess and manage financial risk exposures arising from trading financial instruments.
During 2008, the groups net debt note 10 increased from 7.9 billion to 9.5 billion primarily driven by the groups share buy back programme.
During 2008, debt amounting to 1.9 billion matured consisting of 2007 US dollar 7% notes, finance leases and commercial paper.
This was more than offset by new issuances of 3.9 billion mainly consisting of issuances through the groups European Medium Term Note and US Shelf programmes with maturities ranging between 2013 and 2037 and bank loans see note 16.
During 2007, the groups net debt note 10 increased from 7.5 billion to 7.9 billion mainly due to outows arising on investing activities such as capital expenditure and acquisitions, and from nancing activities such as dividend and net interest payments which more than offset inows mainly arising from operating activities.
During 2007, debt amounting to 1.1 billion matured consisting of the 2006 Sterling 7.375% notes, finance leases and other Sterling oating rate loans and notes.
This was offset by increased holdings of commercial paper and lower current financial assets and cash and cash equivalent investments.
There has been no change in the nature of the groups risk prole between 31 March 2008 and the date of these financial statements.
Interest rate risk management The group has interest bearing financial assets and financial liabilities which may expose the group to either interest cash ow or fair value volatility.
The groups policy, as prescribed by the Board, is to ensure that at least 70% of net debt is at xed rates.
Short term interest rate management is delegated to the centralised treasury operation whilst long-term interest rate management decisions requires further approval from the Group Finance Director, Director Group Financial Control and Treasury or the Treasurer who have been delegated such authority by the Board.
In order to manage this prole, the group has entered into swap agreements with commercial banks and other institutions to vary the amounts and periods for which interest rates on borrowings are xed.
Under cross currency swaps, the group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals, US dollar and Euro xed rates into either xed or oating Sterling interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed notional principal amount.
Under Sterling interest rate swaps, the group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals, the differences between xed rate and oating rate Sterling interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed notional principal amount.
The group uses a combination of these derivatives primarily to x its interest rates.
The majority of the groups long-term borrowings have been, and are, subject to xed Sterling interest rates after applying the impact of hedging instruments.
At 31 March 2008, the group had outstanding Sterling interest rate swap agreements with notional principal amounts totalling 4.8 billion 2007: 5.1 billion.
At 31 March 2008, the groups xed:oating interest rate prole, after hedging, on net debt was 100:0 2007: 75:25.
134 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 33.
Financial instruments and risk management continued The group is exposed to income statement and equity volatility arising from changes in interest rates.
To demonstrate this volatility, management have concluded that a 100 basis point increase in interest rates and parallel shift in yield curves across Sterling, US Dollar and Euro currencies is a reasonable benchmark for performing a sensitivity analysis.
All adjustments to interest rates for the impacted financial instruments are assumed to take affect from 1 April 2008.
After the impact of hedging, the groups main exposure to interest rate volatility in the income statement arises from fair value movements on derivatives not in hedging relationships and its variable rate borrowings and investments which are largely inuenced by Sterling interest rates.
Interest rate movements on trade payables, trade receivables and other financial instruments do not present a material exposure to interest rate volatility.
With all other factors remaining constant and based on the composition of net debt at 31 March 2008, a 100 basis point increase in Sterling interest rates would decrease the groups annual net finance expense by approximately 5 million 2007: 11 million increase.
The groups main IFRS 7 dened exposure to interest rate volatility within shareholders equity arises from fair value movements on derivatives held in the cash ow reserve.
The derivatives have an underlying interest exposure to Sterling, Euro and US dollar rates.
With all other factors remaining constant and based on the composition of derivatives included in the cash ow reserve at the balance sheet date, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates in each of the currencies would impact equity, pre tax, as follows: 2008 2007 m m Charge Charge 100 basis point increase in: credit credit..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Sterling interest rates 470 371 US dollar interest rates 347 272 Euro interest rates 91 28 The long-term debt instruments which the group issued in December 2000 and February 2001 both contained covenants providing that if the BT Group credit rating were downgraded below A3 in the case of Moodys or below A in the case of Standard & Poors S&P, additional interest would accrue from the next coupon period at a rate of 0.25 percentage points for each ratings category adjustment by each ratings agency.
In July 2006, S&P downgraded BTs credit rating to BBB plus and Moodys currently apply a credit rating of Baa1 following a downgrade in May 2001.
Based on the total amount of debt of 4.5 billion outstanding on these instruments at 31 March 2008, BTs annual finance expense would increase by approximately 22 million if BTs credit rating were to be downgraded by one credit rating category by both agencies below a long-term debt rating of Baa1 BBB.
If BTs credit rating with each of Moodys and S&P were to be upgraded by one credit rating category the annual finance expense would be reduced by approximately 22 million.
Foreign exchange risk management The purpose of the groups foreign currency hedging activities is to protect the group from the risk that the eventual net inows and net outows will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates.
The Board policy for foreign exchange risk management defines the types of transactions which should normally be covered including significant operational, funding and currency interest exposures and the period over which cover should extend for the different types of transactions.
Short term foreign exchange management is delegated to the centralised treasury operation whilst long-term foreign exchange management decisions requires further approval from the Group Finance Director, Director Group Financial Control and Treasury or the Treasurer who have been delegated such authority by the Board.
The policy delegates authority to the Treasurer to take positions of up to 100 million and for the Group Finance Director to take positions of up to 1 billion.
A significant proportion of the groups current revenue is invoiced in pounds Sterling, and a significant element of its operations and costs arise within the UK.
The groups overseas operations generally trade and are funded in their functional currency which limits their exposure to foreign exchange volatility.
The groups foreign currency borrowings, which totalled 6.6 billion at 31 March 2008 2007: 5.3 billion, are used to finance its operations and have been predominantly swapped to Sterling.
Cross currency swaps and forward currency contracts have been entered into to reduce the foreign currency exposure on the groups operations and the groups net assets.
The group also enters into forward currency contracts to hedge foreign currency investments, interest expense, capital purchases and purchase and sale commitments on a selective basis.
The commitments hedged are principally US dollar and Euro denominated.
As a result of these policies, the groups exposure to foreign currency arises mainly on the residual currency exposure on its non-UK investments in its subsidiaries and on imbalances between the value of outgoing and incoming international calls.
After hedging, the groups exposure to foreign exchange volatility in the income statement from a 10% strengthening in Sterling against other currencies, based on the composition of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date, with all other factors remaining constant would be insignicant in both the 2008 and 2007 financial years.
The groups main exposure to foreign exchange volatility within shareholders equity excluding translation exposures arises from fair value movements on derivatives held in the cash ow reserve.
The majority of foreign exchange uctuations in the cash ow reserve are recycled immediately to the income statement to match the hedged item and therefore the groups exposure to foreign exchange uctuations in equity would be insignicant in both 2008 and 2007.
At 31 March 2008, the group had outstanding contracts to sell or purchase foreign currency with a total gross notional principal of 7.1 billion 2007: 6.1 billion.
The majority of these instruments were cross currency swaps with a remaining term ranging from 1 to 23 years 2007: 2 months to 24 years.
The notional value of forward currency contracts included in the gross notional principal at 31 March 2008 were 688 million 2007: 1,297 million for purchases of currency and 1 million 2007: 2 million for sales of currency.
The forward currency contracts had a term remaining ranging from 1 to 259 days 2007: 2 to 321 days.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 135 Financial statements Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Credit risk management The groups exposure to credit risk arises mainly from financial assets transacted by the centralised treasury operation and from its trading related receivables.
For treasury related balances, the Board dened policy restricts the exposure to any one counterparty and financial instrument by setting credit limits based on the credit quality as dened by Moodys and Standard and Poors and dening the types of financial instruments which may be transacted.
The minimum credit ratings set are AA3 for long-term and A1 P1 for short-term investments with counterparties.
The centralised treasury operation continuously reviews the limits applied to counterparties and will adjust the limit according to the size and credit standing of the counterparty up to the maximum allowable limit set by the Board.
Management review significant utilisations on a regular basis to determine adjustments required, if any.
Where multiple transactions are undertaken with a single counterparty, or group of related counterparties, the group may enter into a netting arrangement to reduce the groups exposure to credit risk.
Currently the group makes use of standard International Swaps and Derivative Association ISDA documentation.
In addition, where possible the group will seek a legal right of set off and have the ability and intention to settle net.
The group also seeks collateral or other security where it is considered necessary.
During the 2008 financial year, the centralised treasury function tightened the credit limits applied when investing with counterparties and continued to monitor their credit quality in response to market credit conditions.
The groups credit policy for trading related financial assets is applied and managed by each of the lines of business to ensure compliance.
The policy requires that the creditworthiness and financial strength of customers is assessed at inception and on an ongoing basis.
Payment terms are set in accordance with industry standards.
The group will also enhance credit protection when appropriate by applying processes which include netting and off-setting, considering the customers exposure to the group and requesting securities such as deposits, guarantees and letters of credit.
In light of the adverse market conditions the group has taken proactive steps to ensure the impact on trading related financial assets is minimised.
The concentration of credit risk for trading balances of the group is provided in note 15 which analyses outstanding balances by line of business and reects the nature of customers in each segment.
Derivative financial assets 387 52 Investments 471 297 a Trade and other receivables 3,193 2,876 Cash and cash equivalents 1,435 808 Total 5,486 4,033 a The carrying amount excludes 1,256 million 2007: 1,197 million of current and 854 million 2007: 523 million of non current trade and other receivables which relate to non financial assets.
Liquidity risk management The group ensures its liquidity is maintained by entering into short, medium and long-term financial instruments to support operational and other funding requirements.
On an annual basis the Board reviews and approves the maximum long-term funding of the group.
Short and medium-term requirements are regularly reviewed and managed by the centralised treasury operation within the parameters of the policies set by the Board.
The groups liquidity and funding management process includes projecting cash ows and considering the level of liquid assets in relation thereto, monitoring balance sheet liquidity and maintaining a diverse range of funding sources and back-up facilities.
Liquid assets surplus to immediate operating requirements of the group are generally invested and managed by the centralised treasury operation.
Requirements of group companies for operating finance are met whenever possible from central resources.
The group also manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate committed borrowing facilities.
Despite adverse market credit conditions in 2008, the group proactively raised long-term funds of 3.5 billion and short-term funds of 0.4 billion.
A proportion of these borrowings were raised using the groups European Medium Term Note programme and US Shelf registration.
In addition, the group utilised part of its commercial paper programme which is supported by a committed borrowing facility of up to 1,500 million 2007: 1,500 million.
The facility is available for the period to January 2013.
The group had additional undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 835 million 2007: 2,035 million, of which 800 million was agreed in the 2008 financial year with a further 100 million agreed after the balance sheet date, is for a term of 364 days and has a oneyear term out.
The remaining 35 million was renewed in the 2008 financial year.
The prior year included a facility of 2,000 million and was available for one year.
Renancing risk is managed by limiting the amount of borrowing that matures within any specified period.
136 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 33.
b The carrying amount excludes 50 millon 2007: 59 million of current and 169 million 2007: 165 million of non current provisions which relate to non financial liabilities.
c Foreign currency related cash flows were translated at the closing rate as at the relevent reporting date.
Future variable interest rate cash flows were calculated using the most recent rate applied at the relevant balance sheet date.
Price risk management The group has limited exposure to equity securities price risk on investments held by the group.
Hedging activities The group entered into a combination of interest rate and cross currency swaps designated as a combination of fair value and cash ow hedges in order to hedge certain risks associated with the groups US dollar and Euro borrowings.
The risks being hedged consist of currency cash ows associated with future interest and principal payments and the fair value risk of certain elements of borrowings arising from uctuations in currency rates and interest rates.
At 31 March 2008, the group had outstanding interest rate swap agreements in cash ow hedges against borrowings with a total notional principal amount of 2.9 billion 2007: 3.2 billion.
The fair value of these interest rate swaps at the balance sheet date comprised assets of 1 million and liabilities of 207 million 2007: assets of 15 million and liabilities of 234 million.
The interest rate swaps have a remaining term ranging from three to 23 years 2007: four to 24 years to match the underlying hedged cash ows arising on the borrowings consisting of annual and semi-annual interest payments.
The interest receivable in Sterling under these swap contracts are at a weighted average rate of 6.1% 2007: 5.5% and interest payable in Sterling are at a weighted average rate of 5.9% 2007: 5.9%.
At 31 March 2008, the group had outstanding cross currency swap agreements in cash ow and fair value hedges against borrowings with a total notional principal amount of 6.4 billion 2007: 4.8 billion.
The fair value of these cross currency swaps at the balance sheet date comprised assets of 340 million 2007: 10 million and liabilities of 625 million 2007: 833 million.
The cross currency swaps have a remaining term ranging from one to 23 years 2007: two months to 24 years to match the underlying hedged borrowings consisting of annual and semi-annual interest payments and the repayment of principal amounts.
The interest receivable under these swap contracts are at a weighted average rate of 5.9% 2007: 6.9% for Euro cross currency swaps and 7.7% 2007: 8.2% for US dollar cross currency swaps and interest payable in Sterling was at a weighted average rate of 8.6% 2007: 9.2%.
Forward currency contracts have been designated as cash ow hedges of currency cash ows associated with certain Euro and US dollar step up interest payments on bonds.
At 31 March 2008, the group had outstanding forward currency contracts with a total notional principal amount of 182 million 2007: 205 million.
The fair value of the forward currency contracts at the balance sheet date comprised assets of 6 million 2007: 1 million and had a remaining term of between three and five months 2007: three and 11 months after which they will be rolled into new contracts.
The hedged interest cash ows arise on a semi-annual basis and extend over a period of up to 23 years 2007: 24 years.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 137 Financial statements Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Forward currency contracts have been designated as cash ow hedges of currency cash ows associated with certain Euro and US dollar commercial paper issues.
At 31 March 2008, the group had outstanding forward currency contracts with a total notional principal amount of 95 million 2007: 760 million.
The fair value of the forward currency contracts at the balance sheet date comprised assets of 14 million 2007: 15 million and had a remaining term of less than five months 2007: less than three months to match the cash ows on maturity of the underlying commercial paper.
Forward currency contracts have been designated as cash ow hedges against currency cash ows associated with the forecast purchase of xed assets and invoice cash ows arising on certain US dollar denominated supplies.
At 31 March 2008, the group had outstanding forward currency contracts with a total notional principal amount of 1 million 2007: 2 million for sales of currency and 116 million 2007: 165 million for purchases of currency.
The fair value of forward currency contracts at the balance sheet date comprised liabilities of 1 million 2007: 3 million and had a remaining term of less than one month 2007: less than one month after which they will be rolled into new contracts.
The forecast cash ows are anticipated to arise over a period of one month to five years 2007: one month to six years from the balance sheet date.
Other derivatives At 31 March 2008, the group held certain foreign currency forward and interest rate swap contracts that were not in hedging relationships in accordance with IAS 39.
Foreign currency forward contracts were economically hedging operational purchases and sales and had a notional principal amount of 295 million for purchases of currency 2007: 167 million and had a maturity period of under nine months 2007: under nine months.
Interest rate swaps not in hedging relationships under IAS 39 had a notional principal amount of 1.9 billion 2007: 1.9 billion and mature between 2014 and 2030 2007: 2014 and 2030.
The interest receivable under these swap contracts are at a weighted average rate of 6.9% 2007: 6.5% and interest payable are at a weighted average rate of 8.5% 2007: 8.1%.
The volatility arising from these swaps is recognised through the income statement but is limited due to a natural offset in their valuation movements.
The group entered into a low cost borrowing structure during the 2008 financial year which was marginally earnings positive after tax.
The structure included a forward currency contract for the sale of currency with a notional principal of 512 million which had matured by the 31 March 2008 realising a loss of 26 million.
Fair value of financial instruments The following table discloses the carrying amounts and fair values of all of the groups financial instruments which are not carried at an amount which approximates to its fair value on the balance sheet at 31 March 2008 and 2007.
The carrying amounts are included in the group balance sheet under the indicated headings.
The fair value of the financial instruments are the amounts at which the instruments could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced liquidation or sale.
In particular, the fair values of listed investments were estimated based on quoted market prices for those investments.
The carrying amount of the short-term deposits and investments approximated to their fair values due to the short maturity of the investments held.
The carrying amount of trade receivables and payables approximated to their fair values due to the short maturity of the amounts receivable and payable.
The fair value of the groups bonds, debentures, notes, finance leases and other long-term borrowings has been estimated on the basis of quoted market prices for the same or similar issues with the same maturities where they existed, and on calculations of the present value of future cash ows using the appropriate discount rates in effect at the balance sheet dates, where market prices of similar issues did not exist.
The fair value of the groups outstanding swaps and foreign exchange contracts where the estimated amounts, calculated using discounted cash ow models, that the group would receive or pay in order to terminate such contracts in an arms length transaction taking into account market rates of interest and foreign exchange at the balance sheet date.
