Financial statements Report of the independent auditors parent company Independent auditors report to the Basis of audit opinion members of BT Group plc We conducted our audit in accordance with International We have audited the parent company financial statements of BT Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 which comprise Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, the balance sheet and the accounting policies.
These parent of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the company financial statements have been prepared under the parent company financial statements and the part of the Report accounting policies set out therein.
These parent company on Directors Remuneration to be audited.
It also includes an financial statements are set out on pages 141 to 144.
We have assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by also audited the information in the Report on Directors the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial Remuneration that is described as having been audited.
statements, and of whether the accounting policies are We have reported separately on the consolidated financial appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied statements of BT Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2008. and adequately disclosed.
This separate report is set out on page 85.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Respective responsibilities of directors order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable and auditors assurance that the parent company financial statements and the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited are the Report on Directors Remuneration and the parent company free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or financial statements in accordance with applicable law and other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the information in the parent company financial statements and the Statement of directors responsibilities.
part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited.
"Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors Opinion Remuneration to be audited in accordance with relevant legal In our opinion: and regulatory requirements and International Standards on the parent company financial statements give a true and fair "" Auditing UK and Ireland."
This report, including the opinion, has view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted been prepared for and only for the companys members as a Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act at 31 March 2008: 1985 and for no other purpose.
"We do not, in giving this the parent company financial statements and the part of the opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or "" Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited have been to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and consent in writing."
"We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent the information given in the Report of the Directors is "" company financial statements give a true and fair view and consistent with the parent company financial statements."
whether the parent company financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act  LLP 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent London, United Kingdom with the parent company financial statements.
14 May 2008 In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Form 20-F and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Overview and the Report of the Directors.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
140 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F
