Vodafone Financials Audit Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements Report of Independent Registered Public We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient Accounting Firm to the Members of Vodafone evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Consolidated Financial Statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free from Group Plc material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
We have audited the Consolidated Financial Statements of Vodafone Group Plc In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation which comprise the consolidated balance sheet at 31 March 2008 and 2007, of information in the Consolidated Financial Statements and the part of the the consolidated income statement, the consolidated cash flow statement, the directors remuneration report to be audited.
consolidated statement of recognised income and expense for each of the three years in the period ended 31 March 2008 and the related notes numbered 1 to 37.
Opinions These Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the accounting UK opinion policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the directors In our opinion: remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
t he Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in accordance We have reported separately on the parent Company Financial Statements of with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs Vodafone Group Plc for the year ended 31 March 2008. as at 31 March 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly prepared in Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited remuneration report and the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the as adopted by the European Union are set out in the statement of directors Consolidated Financial Statements.
As explained in note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Group, in Our responsibility is to audit the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRS as adopted by with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on the European Union, has also complied with IFRS as issued by the International Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Consolidated Financial Statements In our opinion the Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair view, give a true and fair view, whether the Consolidated Financial Statements have in accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2008 been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 and of its profit for the year then ended.
of the IAS Regulation and whether the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance US opinion with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether, in our opinion, In our opinion, the Consolidated Financial Statements present fairly, in all material the information given in the directors report is consistent with the Consolidated respects, the consolidated financial position of the Group at 31 March 2008 and Financial Statements.
2007 and the consolidated results of its operations and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 31 March 2008 in conformity with IFRS as In addition, we report to you if we have not received all the information and adopted by the European Union and as issued by the International Accounting explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Standards Board.
directors transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States, the effectiveness of the Groups We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys internal control over financial reporting as at 31 March 2008, based on the criteria compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for established in the Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Our report including if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statement our opinions on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial on internal control covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the reporting is set out on page 84. effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Deloitte & Touche LLP Consolidated Financial Statements.
We consider the implications for our report Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies London with the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend United Kingdom to any further information outside the annual report.
27 May 2008 Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board and with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Consolidated Financial Statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
132 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008
