Vodafone Additional Information Regulation The Groups operating companies are generally subject to regulation governing the addition of functional separation as a remedy subject to certain conditions the operation of their business activities.
Such regulation typically takes the form being fulfilled: of industry-specific law and regulation covering telecommunications services and fundamental changes to the licensing of spectrum, introducing more flexibility, general competition anti-trust law applicable to all activities.
Some regulation trading and market-based approaches: implements commitments made by governments under the Basic some net neutrality provisions to address the concerns that the services of some Telecommunications Accord of the World Trade Organisation to facilitate market internet service providers ISPs will be blocked or otherwise discriminated entry and establish regulatory frameworks.
against by network operators: proposals that number portability be completed in one day on all networks in the EU: The following section describes the regulatory framework and the key regulatory various measures to address concerns about network security: and developments at the global and regional level and in selected countries in which various measures to address the provision of services for the disabled.
the Group has significant interests.
Many of the regulatory developments reported in the following section involve ongoing proceedings or consideration of The proposed changes are now being debated in the European Parliament and potential proceedings that have not reached a conclusion.
Accordingly, the Group the Council of Member States and this process is expected to continue for most, is unable to attach a specific level of financial risk to the Groups performance if not all, of 2008.
The impact of the review on Vodafone will depend on the from such matters.
changes actually adopted by the EU, the manner in which revised directives are subsequently implemented in Member States and how the revised regulatory World Radiocommunication Conference framework is then applied by the respective NRAs and the Commission.
During October and November 2007, the World Radiocommunication Conference of the International Telecommunications Union met in Geneva to consider Spectrum changes to the Radio Regulations.
The next such Conference will be held in In February 2007, the Commission published a communication on its plans to introduce 2011.
The Conference establishes, by means of international treaty, the basis greater flexibility in the use of spectrum in selected bands, including 2G and 3G bands, upon which radio frequency bands may be used in the signatory countries through the use of Decisions agreed with the Radio Spectrum Committee an EU level which include all markets in which Vodafone has interests.
Such agreements committee comprising the Commission and Member States.
These reforms are are required to prevent interference between users in different countries and expected to take place in advance of the review.
The first proposed measure is a to facilitate the development of scalable technologies such as GSM or UMTS.
replacement of the GSM Directive by a decision to allow the deployment of UMTS The most important outcome of the 2007 conference for Vodafone was the services using 900 MHz and 1800 MHz spectrum refarming.
The Commission identification of additional spectrum in the UHF band for mobile services and, submitted formal proposals for such a decision to the European Parliament in July 2007. in particular, the identification of spectrum in the 790-862 MHz range for mobile services in Europe.
In November 2007, the European Commission made a policy announcement on the 800 MHz digital dividend spectrum to be released following the transition European Union from analogue to digital TV.
It urged Europe, and the Member States in particular, The EU Regulatory Framework for the communications sector the EU Framework to create new harmonised bands of spectrum for mobile broadband services and was adopted in 2002 and has been implemented by all EU Member States mobile TV.
The need for action on the digital dividend has been supported by although there remain both ongoing and new infringement proceedings against leading European Parliamentarians, and the Member States are expected to respond a number of Member States for late or inadequate implementation.
with a statement at the EU Telecoms Council in June 2008.
The EU Framework consists of four principal Directives outlining matters such as: International roaming In June 2007, a regulation the roaming regulation under Article 95 of the EU the objectives to be pursued by national regulatory authorities NRAs : Treaty came into force requiring mobile operators to offer a euro-tariff under the way in which telecommunications operators are to be licensed: which the cost of making calls within the EU is capped at 49 eurocents per minute measures to be taken to protect consumers: and and the cost of receiving calls within the EU is capped at 24 eurocents per minute.
ensuring universal provision of certain telecommunications services and the terms Customers who had not otherwise already opted for another roaming tariff, such and basis upon which operators interconnect and provide access to each other.
as Vodafone Passport, were automatically opted onto the euro-tariff.
The roaming regulation also requires that wholesale roaming charges within the EU are capped at The EU Framework seeks to align the techniques for defining where sector an initial average rate of 30 eurocents per minute and that operators provide certain specific regulation may be applied, and the threshold for when such regulation tariff transparency services to customers when they roam.
The level of the retail and can be applied, with those already employed in EU competition law.
It is also wholesale caps will fall in a further 12 and 24 months following the application of intended to ensure consistency of approach amongst NRAs within the Member the regulation, which will terminate after three years.
All NRAs are required to take utmost account of a list of markets which are specified by the European Commission the Commission in a Recommendation The Commission is required by the roaming regulation to consider whether voice when deciding which markets to investigate.
The second such Recommendation roaming should continue to be regulated beyond the expiry of the current regulation was published by the Commission in November 2007 and for the mobile industry and, if so, what form such regulation might take.
In addition, the Commission is required includes only the market at a wholesale level for voice call termination on to review SMS and data roaming and to consider whether regulation is required, individual mobile networks.
Two markets included the first Recommendation, and if so, what form this might take.
The Commission is consulting on these matters, one for the wholesale national market for international roaming and the market with a view to publishing conclusions in late summer or early autumn of 2008.
The for access and call origination on public mobile networks, have been removed.
Commission indicated in February 2008 that it would consider regulation in the event NRAs may still review other markets subject to satisfying certain tests.
that SMS retail roaming prices did not approach justified levels, which it considered to be not more than 12 eurocents per SMS.
The Commission urged the industry to adopt Under the EU Framework, regulation can only be applied to undertakings with more predictable and transparent tariffs for data roaming services, and suggested that significant market power SMP, either individually or collectively, in the relevant wholesale data roaming pricing should fall to around 35 eurocents per megabyte.
markets, subject to the Commissions consent.
SMP under the EU Framework accords with the concept of dominance under existing EU competition law.
Call termination For individual dominance, this generally implies a market share of at least 40%, At 31 March 2008, the termination rates effective for the Groups subsidiaries and although other factors may also be taken into consideration.
joint ventures within the European Union, which differs from the Groups Europe region, ranged from 6.40 eurocents 5.09 pence to 11.84 eurocents 9.42 pence, In November 2007, the Commission published proposals to amend the EU Framework at the relevant 31 March 2008 exchange rate.
Any changes to the EU Framework would become effective following their transposition into national law from around 2010.
Not all of these affect The Commission is studying the regulation of call termination and is expected Vodafone directly.
The proposals that may directly affect Vodafone include: to consult upon and then issue a Recommendation in the autumn of 2008.
The Commission has indicated that it is concerned by what it considers to be the the proposed creation of a new European regulatory authority: unjustifiably wide range of regulated rates set by NRAs in the EU and by their level the extension of the Commissions powers so as to allow it, rather than national relative to its view of cost.
The NRAs are required to take utmost account of the regulators, to determine remedies where SMP is found: Commissions recommendations, but may depart from them in justified circumstances.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 147 Vodafone Additional Information Regulation continued Europe The appeal by certain stakeholders against the NRAs decision on setting call Germany termination rates until 2011 is being considered by the UK Competition Commission Vodafones 900 MHz licence was extended to 2016.
In April 2008, the NRA and Competition Appeal Tribunal.
Vodafone UK filed an appeal against the published the rules for auctioning further 2.0 GHz, 2.6 GHz and 1800 MHz proposals of the NRA to reform the number portability processes and reduce spectrum, with auctions expected in 2009. porting times to two hours.
In April 2008, the German Supreme Administration Court rejected lawsuits filed The NRA announced that it will withdraw certain regulatory obligations from BT by the four mobile network operators against the NRAs decision to regulate in relation to the provision of wholesale broadband services in certain parts of the mobile termination rates on an ex ante basis.
The German Competition Authority UK market where it considers that BT no longer has SMP, a result of competition has commenced an investigation into the use by Vodafone Germany and T-Mobile from other fixed unbundlers and cable operators.
Vodafone purchases certain Germany of on-net pricing.
fixed wholesale services from BT.
During the year, the NRA reduced Vodafones termination rate by 9.8% to 7.92 Vodafones average termination rate for the 2008 financial year was 5.70 pence.
Rates declined by 3.2% below the retail price index in April 2008 and will decline by 2.5% below the retail price index in the April 2009 and April 2010.
Italy The NRA launched a public consultation for the assignment of 900 MHz, 1800 Other Europe MHz and 2.1 GHz spectrum and on the implementation of 900 MHz refarming.
Greece The Italian Ministry of Communications assigned 5 MHz of 900 MHz spectrum In January 2007, Vodafone Greece was fined 76 million as software foreign to the to Wind on a temporary basis in 16 main cities.
The NRA published proposals network and capable of intercepting calls had been installed without Vodafones to licence DVB-H services.
knowledge in the network software.
Vodafone Greece has paid the fine but is appealing the decision before the Council of State and a hearing is set for October The Italian National Competition Authority NCA closed its investigation into 2008.
In March 2008, Vodafone Greece was fined 19 million by the NRA for alleged anti-competitive practices by mobile network operators, including violations of telecommunications legislation and provisions of licences in Vodafone Italy, in relation to network access for MVNOs and other matters.
connection with the interception incident.
Vodafone has appealed the decision.
Undertakings in relation to network access were submitted by Vodafone Italy Vodafone Greece appealed a finding that the three largest mobile network and accepted by the NCA, and the case has been closed without sanction for operators colluded in setting retail SMS prices and won.
The NRA then appealed Vodafone.
A new law was enacted prohibiting fees or other charges in addition this decision before the Council of State.
to airtime for prepaid services and introducing measures to enable consumers to terminate contracts without penalty.
The Italian NRA published guidelines During the year, the termination rate reduced by 15.6% to 9.91 eurocents.
requiring operators to reimburse or transfer any remaining prepaid airtime of customers switching networks.
Ireland Vodafone Ireland has obtained a trial licence to deploy UMTS in 900 MHz The Italian NRA and Government commenced discussions with Telecom Italia spectrum.
In March 2007, a 3G licence was awarded to eircom.
about proposed voluntary separation of the Telecom Italia fixed network.
Vodafone currently purchases certain services from Telecom Italia in order to The Netherlands provide fixed broadband services in the Italian market and it is possible that both In March 2007, Vodafone Netherlands 900 MHz licence was extended for three existing and future arrangements between Vodafone and Telecom Italia would years to 2013.
The NRA is expected to consult upon compliance with 3G coverage be affected if such proposals were to be implemented.
Auctions of 2.6 GHz spectrum are also expected in 2008.
During the year, the NRA reduced Vodafones termination rate by 11.0% to 9.97 An appeal by one stakeholder against the NRAs decision setting call termination eurocents, with the NRA foreseeing further reductions to 8.85 eurocents in rates was heard and a decision is expected in the coming months.
During the year, July 2008, 7.70 eurocents in July 2009, 6.60 eurocents in July 2010 and 5.90 the termination rate reduced by 9.1% to 10.00 eurocents.
The NRA proposes to eurocents in July 2011. reduce termination rates to 9.00 eurocents in July 2008 and to 7.00 eurocents in July 2009.
Spain The NRA commenced a review of the wholesale market for SMS termination.
Portugal The Spanish Competition Authority commenced an investigation against the The NRA decided to implement technology neutrality for 900 MHz spectrum, three largest mobile operators in Spain, including Vodafone, alleging that the paving the way for refarming.
The NRA proposed to allocate, through a public firms colluded when setting call set-up charges.
A new law was passed requiring tender, 450 MHz spectrum for mobile services.
telecommunications operators to retain certain data for a 12 month period and requiring operators to register the identity of new prepay customers and to A new law concerning unfair commercial practices was enacted in April 2008 that register the identity of existing prepay customers within a two year period.
The prohibits the rounding up of charges and introduced a series of associated tariff NRA commenced a review to determine the operators obliged to contribute to transparency measures.
the national universal service fund and the criteria for distribution of the fund.
During the year, the NRA published a proposal for future termination rates.
During the year, the NRA reduced Vodafones termination rate by 15.3% to 9.61 This proposal is yet to be finalised and the termination rate applied in Portugal eurocents.
In April 2008, the NRA reduced the rate to 8.74 eurocents, with remained unchanged at 11.00 eurocents during the year.
reductions to 7.87 eurocents in October 2008 and 7.00 eurocents in April 2009.
France United Kingdom The NRA issued a call for tenders for a fourth 3G licence by July 2007.
No licence An auction of 2.6 GHz spectrum is expected to commence in September 2008 has been awarded to date.
The NRA authorised refarming of the 900 MHz and and the NRA also proposes to auction 112 MHz of digital dividend spectrum 1800 MHz bands.
The NRA published proposals to allow refarming of 900 MHz spectrum, but proposed that Vodafone, and O2, first release The French Competition Council has issued a Statement of Objection to SFR 2 x 7.5 MHz each for reallocation to other parties.
Following consultation, the NRA concerning on-net pricing in certain tariffs.
has decided to reconsider these proposals.
148 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 EMAPA South Africa Eastern Europe The NRA is proceeding with the implementation of the Electronic Poland Communications Act ECA of 2006 and the associated licence conversion The NRA concluded an analysis of the market for access and call origination process.
The NRA plans to issue service licences by July 2008 and complete on mobile public networks, concluding that no operator had SMP.
regulations before the end of 2008.
Romania Vodacom has announced its commitment to a transaction in 2008 under the The Government commenced a process to issue a sixth mobile licence in the South Africa Governments programme of Broad-Based Black Economic 410-415 MHz band.
Mobile number portability is expected to be implemented Empowerment BBBEE.
The Information Communications Technologies BBBEE in October 2008.
Sector Code Code was submitted to the Minister of Trade and Industry in March 2008 for approval.
To date, the Minister has not published the Code for Turkey the 60 day public comment process required before the Minister may give his The Government undertook an auction of 2.1 GHz licences in August 2007. approval.
Vodacom remains subject to the generic Department of Trade and The auction was subsequently revoked and no licences were issued.
The NRA Industry Codes of Good Practice until the Code is approved.
As part of the may recommence the award of 3G licences in late 2008 or 2009. implementation of the ECA, the NRA is consulting on the process of determining wholesale and retail regulations i. e. interconnection, facilities leasing and The NRA has applied certain restrictions on the on-net retail pricing practices essential facilities.
The NRA is expected to conclude this by the end of June 2008. of Turkcell, which are subject to appeal by Turkcell.
Mobile number portability is expected to be implemented in the autumn of 2008.
Call termination remains under investigation by the NRA.
In January 2007, the NRA issued proposals to declare Vodacom, MTN and Cell C as having SMP mobile Middle East, Africa and Asia call termination on individual networks.
Egypt The NRA extended Vodafone Egypts 2G licence until 2013 and its 3G licence Qatar until 2022.
In December 2007, a consortium comprising Vodafone and the Qatar Foundation for Education, Science and Community Development was named as the The third entrant, ETISALAT, launched GSM services in the Egyptian market in successful applicant in the auction to become the second mobile operator in May 2007.
ETISALAT was awarded an International Gateway Licence in October Qatar.
The licence is expected to be granted by 30 June 2008 and will be owned 2007.
Mobile number portability was introduced in Egypt in April 2008. by Vodafone Qatar, which is required to complete a public offering of 40% of its shareholding on the Doha Securities Market for Qatari nationals.
The public India offering is expected to complete in the 2008 calendar year.
The NRA has issued recommendations to the Department of Telecommunications DoT on the licence terms and capping the number of licensees.
The DoT has The NRA is currently consulting on Qtels status and whether to impose dominant permitted CDMA operators to apply for GSM spectrum to enable them to provide service provider obligations.
GSM services alongside their CDMA operations.
It has revised the customer number threshold at which licensees become eligible for incremental spectrum Pacific allocation, with the threshold being made significantly more stringent.
The DoT New Zealand has also issued new licences for up to seven new licences in each licence area.
Vodafone sold 2x 5.8 MHZ of 900 MHz spectrum to the third mobile entrant in It has commenced the process of allocating GSM spectrum to these new March 2008.
Vodafone retains 2x 15 MHz until 2031, subject to payment of a licensees, with Vodafone Essar being awarded initial GSM spectrum in seven renewal fee.
Vodafone has entered into a national roaming agreement with the service areas in the 2008 financial year.
third entrant, as a result of which the NRA has concluded an enquiry without taking further action.
The DoT issued guidelines to permit active infrastructure sharing between licensees.
It has issued guidelines on mobile number portability, which is to be launched in four Metro cities by the fourth quarter of the 2008 calendar year, before being extended nationwide.
The DoT has also issued broad guidelines on 3G mobile services and broadband wireless access.
The NRA has recommended the abolition of the Access Deficit Contribution, a 0.75% charge levied on adjusted gross revenue of operators.
Kenya The Kenya Communications Amendment Bill 2007 was withdrawn by the Government.
The NRA has granted Telkom Kenya a licence for the provision of Mobile Cellular Services.
It is expected that Telkom Kenya will roll out GSM services during 2008 under the Orange East Africa brand.
The third Kenyan mobile licence has been awarded to Econet Wireless, which plans to roll out its GSM services during 2008.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 149
