Audit Report on the Company Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing of Vodafone Group Plc UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures We have audited the parent Company Financial Statements of Vodafone Group Plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 which comprise the balance sheet and the in the parent Company Financial Statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation related notes 1 to 10.
These parent Company Financial Statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
of the parent Company Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied We have reported separately on the Consolidated Financial Statements of and adequately disclosed.
Vodafone Group Plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 and on the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent Company Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and United irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Company Financial Statements.
Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company Financial Statements in In our opinion: accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the parent Company Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company Financial of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2008: the parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in Statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the parent 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the Directors Report is consistent with the parent Company Financial Statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors Deloitte & Touche LLP remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London We read the information contained in the Annual Report for the above year as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the United Kingdom 27 May 2008 audited parent Company Financial Statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent Company Financial Statements.
Our responsibility does not extend to any further information outside the annual report.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 133
